ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u1	Resume session. I ask the senators of the secretaries to take their seats at the president's table. We return to the joint examination of the points of the twenty-fourth and the twenty-fiveth agenda: the law of education; the law of the law of the law of the law of education. I would remind you that the discussion was closed before the adjournment. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? Welcome, Minister Anna Zalewska. Minister, would you like to speak? [[Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska: Yes.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] You're welcome, Minister. [[Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska: Mr. Marshal...]] Please keep your conversations quiet, as well as your phone calls, outside the room. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I am very pleased to be able to present a few words, points, summaries, explanations in relation to the various types of anxiety that last night sounded in the questions and during the debate. There have been many questions, a few half-truths, not repeated in the media space, which is why, out of respect for the High Senate and the public, I allow myself to speak briefly. What concerns you most is the pace of the changes being made. There are questions about research, about how it will be carried out. As far as the pace is concerned, I would like to tell you that we have been discussing middle school for 17 years. We spent hundreds of millions of dollars on educational research, research, which shows the state of the education system. At the same time, we have reports from the Supreme Chamber of Control. We held the first debate in Poland's history before the change. Of course, these were not just debates organized by the Ministry of Education, because there were more than 20 of them. These were hundreds of meetings at the Ministry of Education, among others. teachers, directors, employers, trade union representatives. Besides, many of the demands you will find in education law are in line with the needs of trade unions. At the same time, I ask you, every Saturday and Sunday at the Ministry of Education, experts were meeting, who were analysing the basis of the programme, so that when the debate is concluded, they could simply sit down and write the basis for the programme. Ladies and gentlemen, there was also a debate at the President's Office. In the special economic zone with Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, we summarized the debates on vocational education and announced changes. Finally, the twenty-seventh in Toruń, in one of the most modern halls in Poland, we summarized the debates and presented the assumptions. We talked about what the debates were about and what work would be like for the next few months, for a year, 3 and 4 years. We declared that the education law would be ready in mid-September. That's what happened. On September 16th, we presented the law of education. We have consulted them extensively and more than 97 comments have been adopted. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, there has been intense work on the programme basis, because unlike what you hear, everything is going on according to rhythm and schedule. The publishers met us at the beginning of September, all the publishers, and the little ones, and the big ones. For the first time actually publishers are not And thank you to the publishers for that. In expert teams working on software bases. I don't know if you remember these times. And it wasn't that long ago. When the software bases were written and they were not shown yet, and the publications were already in schools, offering textbooks and offering various types of solutions and exercises. We have been respected by publishers, and therefore everyone has equal opportunities and will have the same access to the software bases. When it comes to the basics of the program, there was a pre-consultation, it's also a novelty. In a moment of consultation, because the regulation in which these grounds will be given... Of course, we are listening, including these untruths. Such a classic untruth, which already lives its own life, even though we have condemned it repeatedly, is that evolution disappears from the basics of the program. No, ladies and gentlemen, evolution is as it was. I encourage you to analyse the 2012 programming bases and what we are proposing. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about September... I'm talking to senators who were most concerned about the speed of change. I'm talking about September 2017, folks, we're just getting started. Local governments will pass resolutions on school networks to show the target solution, and there will be five years to organize this network. There will be no empty buildings... Please also note such dissonance: you will hear that there will be two changes, even three, and next to empty buildings, and there are no places for kindergarteners. Well, that's not gonna happen. The pursuit is clear, ladies and gentlemen, to small classes and to one-change. We are a phenomenon in Europe, we are actually shown with our fingers, as a two-shift education system, that is an absolutely foreign concept. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, we will, of course, continue our work, and above all, we will be with local government officials on this change. Please note, too, that before the school law was voted, when the education law was established, we were already in the local government; we are already in schools, voivodeships meet with local government officials, ministry management, directors drive, present, present, translate, count, curators meet with teachers, parents and directors. In July, a letter was sent to all local government officials, where I warmly thanked the six-year-olds for their support, because in fact 80% The parents decided that their six-year-old would study in kindergarten. And I kept my words, just like the Polish government. For the first time, there's a six-year-old grant. A subsidy to respect a joint decision with local government officials... And at the same time it is a decision that was planned already in December, because it is intended to compensate after 2 years of high school losing out, when the local government will have 10 years in education grants, at the end of the 9th year, as it was supposed to... Don't worry that it will be 8 years old, and this concern also sounds in your debate. In August, the same letter was received by teachers and directors, and I clearly wrote in it what had happened, what was going to happen, what was going to happen, what was going to happen, what was the pace, and what was the rhythm. There are information packages at the moment, I hope with the senators. Senators of the governing coalition, the opposition, we will strengthen this message, we will explain. The Ministry is at your disposal. We have launched a website, we are, ladies and gentlemen, at your disposal by telephone, by e-mail, on average we receive 80?100 emails a day with precise questions to which we answer. What kind of school are we doing this for, ladies and gentlemen? School is 21st century school. It sounded during the debates, ladies and gentlemen, such a single argument that only the middle school had evened out educational opportunities. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the 19th century, when the primary school was associated with Antek... Ladies and gentlemen, the 21st century is a whole educational system, it is a primary school, which in every place gives the same opportunities. In the 21st century, only a dozen percent of schools have broadband internet for the 21st century. It sounded during the debate that there were rooms, offices, laboratories in junior high schools. Ladies and gentlemen, after the last financial perspective, in which huge money was spent, such laboratories have only 25% of the middle school and 18% primary schools. This is a civilization challenge, and so is broadband internet. Together with Minister Streżyńska, we repeat that tenders are running out and that within 2 years there will be broadband internet in each school in Poland. The challenge for the Ministry of Education and for local governments is also that there should be interactive boards everywhere. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the 21st century is not only computer science, but also the use of information technology in every subject. The Polish teacher according to OECD research, which is not mentioned, is the best educated teacher, but also the least satisfied and at the same time not using IT technologies. Well, he's got nowhere else to use them. This is indeed a civilization challenge. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about the fact that schools are supposed to be smaller because these schools are safe. Single shifts, with smaller branches. Besides, the bill guarantees it. Please note, High Senate, that we are talking about the transition of the same class teams. The average in primary school is 19 people, and in middle school From 23 to 25 people. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, these additional branches and additional posts. Remember, when we talked about six-year-olds, we pointed out that the parent had a free choice and decided if the six-year-old was learning... Well, he's learning. And that's why the student stays in the education system for 13 years, not 12 years. There were such fears that 7,000 teachers would lose their jobs. Not only did they not lose their jobs, but there were thousands of new jobs. What kind of school is that supposed to be? Apart from the fact that it will be modern, folks, it has been designed in educational law so that it strengthens upbringing and is innovative. Finally, the teacher will not report, but will have freedom to implement the programme basis. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, freedom goes back to school. 80% will be the elements to be reflected in the exam, and 20% will be the project. Because, ladies and gentlemen, these tests that our opponents call for, tests that show skills. A great respect is due to a Polish teacher The student in mathematics, reading and natural sciences also says that the Polish student cannot cooperate, apply mathematical formulas and solve problems. Therefore, it is necessary to work on every lesson so that the student can work on every problem as part of the project. Plus, in the last week, he's just gonna show it at school, in front of his parents and in front of his teachers. That's how this school was designed. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, of course, it will be a school that... Well, it's a system. We cannot talk about one element of the system, because parents, ladies and gentlemen, are interested in the whole system, as well as the rectors. Ladies and gentlemen, the question is, where did the rectors' opinion come from. Well, it comes from the best auditor in Poland, namely the Supreme Chamber of Control. That's where those clear opinions about the whole system came in. I've met with the presidents of many universities... [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u3	Excuse me. Please, Senator, don't disturb me at the moment, because it's very inhospitable. I'm addressing Senator Augustine. [[Water, water!]] Okay, we'll have water. Please don't interrupt or disturb me. That's not elegant. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u4	I have met with the rectors of many universities and state vocational schools, which have problems connected with, among others. with demographic poverty, as well as with the rectors of the pedagogical schools with which we have talked about professional improvement. Yes, professional training is needed. No, 64% Diplomat teachers just don't learn. We need to take care of this together with the unions and local government. For the first time in the Ministry of Education, a team was formed in which local government officials and trade unions really talk about the future of teachers. Ladies and gentlemen, the system covers four years of high school, teaching, vocational education. And while I'm at it, I'm gonna stop vocational education, although I have to add here how we treat natural sciences. Ladies and gentlemen, there are 105 hours more for natural sciences throughout the cycle. If you have heard that we disqualify these objects, that is not true. We're strengthening history. The senator pointed this out perfectly yesterday, saying that from 4 to 9 hours of history in primary school are increasing. We balance, ladies and gentlemen, what is related to history, mathematics, physics, geography, biology and chemistry. Here I would like to draw your attention to mathematics, one of the more modern curriculum bases for teaching in classes I.III, reinforced not only with elements of reading. Because Poles haven't read what we've heard in a few years. We need to strengthen this reading, but also math. We have a mathematical alarm, as the Institute of Educational Research says, with whom the predecessors had no reason to meet; I meet regularly with representatives of the Institute of Educational Research. In these bases you will find the basis for programming, as well as the basis for playing chess. Because it is from these researches that it is clear that we are strengthening mathematics through such actions. Notice that when math plays back, it shows... In this respect, in international research, 15-year-olds are doing well, very well. And tell me, how persistent are these competences and skills, if in three years' time she gives basic math, where she has to pass at 30%, and yet 20% of these young people don't give math? Like I said, we have a civilizational alarm, a mathematical alarm, because it's the 21st century. Therefore, what is related to the subject matter of mathematics must be strengthened at every stage. And at the same time, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about small schools in the system. I keep telling you why and why. Last years, ladies and gentlemen, this is the liquidation of small schools, which, as it turns out in research related among others. with adult education... Let me remind you that we are at the gray end, in the tail of lifelong learning, even though we have spent millions of zloty steaks. When we read in-depth studies on lifelong learning, we see that just a small school in the countryside is indicated as the only place to which, for example. A woman 50+ will come with her child or grandson. It is there that this school needs to be strengthened, equipped with excellent tools of the 21st century. Besides, in the program of the Ministry of Education, and in the program of the Ministry of Culture, which I have sought, there will be a lot of money for libraries, for reading in these places. And, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of losing junior high. We can say yes. In 1998 at the end of November Mr Buzek sends a very urgent letter to Marshal Płażyński for the immediate procedure of the law that introduces gymnasia. Junior high school is supposed to be since September 1999; I was in the system then. In 1999 after the holidays, teachers learn that they are to mathematically separate from primary school, as well as teachers, and to find about 5,000 independent buildings, because that was the assumption. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, the justification had several pages, there were no studies and there were no identified effects of regulation, that law or financial security. One Member of the PSL has said very sincerely that they are still paying back the loans associated with the reform. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that, indeed, the assumptions... And I respectfully, as you can see, I'm talking about my predecessors, because I don't assume that any of them had negative emotions about the education system. Please note that Minister Handke, even though there were discussions at the time, whether administrative reform was over, made a fundamental mistake, including a financial error. Because in the sense of the idea he assigned the middle school to the district, and structurally and financially assigned it to the municipality. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, the following years have absolutely ruled out these assumptions. Today 60% Junior high school is in teams, which means there are 2,000 80 independent junior high schools. Marshal Borusewicz asked how many buildings it was. I'm sorry to say that in the educational information system, it's just an address. President Koszalin, where we were, who is the chairman of the educational team of the Association of Cities opinion and counting institutions, lost even one middle school because it is independent, but it is located in the same building as the primary school. Ladies and gentlemen, there are 2,000 80 stand-alone junior high schools. Studies clearly show that there are better results in teams, and there is better educational added value. Look what happened: it was the parents who decided it was the council that decided it. Firstly, they see that it has a good effect, and secondly, they consolidate public finances. I would like you to understand that it is dramatic rather than demographic. A few, several years ago, the yearbook had 600 and 700 thousand students, now it's 350 thousand. We need to realise that rather than demographics, it must be an inspiration for us so that we can guarantee a school at the level of the 21st century. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, we show that we care about the teacher. You will find dozens of records that actually show that we want to take care of everyone, including employees. At the same time, there are discussions about how, in relation to demographics... In the last 7 years 42,000 teachers have been fired in connection with the Teacher's Charter, over 1 000 40 schools have been liquidated. Therefore, we show that we need the system to be safe so that it can actually serve children. Because that's why we're building an education system to have teachers, psychologists, speech counselors in every school. There's no methodology, there's no professional advisors. There are two competitions... One completely disqualified, so-called. an assistant in integrated classes. And, ladies and gentlemen, you can't see a teacher teaching foreigners; it's the first time we've seen it in the system. There's money for so-called. preparatory classes. It is intended to be a teacher who will teach mathematics and physics in parallel, teaching not only mathematics or translating mathematics, but also teaching Polish. A few words about vocational education, because in this case there were actually a lot of questions and there were some attempts to disqualify the fact that it was just a name change; although the name is also very important. Young people and parents said that vocational school is very bad. Remember those times when you were told that if you didn't study, you'd go to the competition, and I said it nicely. As a result, industry... But it is also an indication that vocational education is to be related to a particular industry. Right now, in Lower Silesia, as you know, the Mercedes will be located. [[They'll stay in our memory.]] We're already talking at the Ministry of Education. We ask Mercedes to specify the necessary qualifications and competitions so that we can concentrate vocational education in Lower Silesia so that in two years there will be no trouble at all. What kind of school is this? This is indeed a modern school. For the first time, we have an expensive system. There's the so-called one. The second stage in which young people will be able to pass the exam. The professional exam will be treated in the same way as extended history, physics, mathematics or chemistry. This is indeed a civilization challenge, at the same time it is a huge promotion. It's a system that aims to be a dual system, because it's not dual yet; in the case of dual systems, ladies and gentlemen, that is, directly at the employer... Employers add to the system. Germany has such a system that there is a mandatory employers' association and a compulsory contribution. They're the ones joining the education system. Together with the employers we are ready, they are already ready to create...maybe we can actually introduce such solutions, we want to do so next year. The Fund for the Development of Vocational Education, FREZ, is very nicely called, which will be a fund supporting vocational education. We don't disqualify the forms that have been so far. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, for the alarm of teachers and directors, we adapt the professional programming bases. They'll show up next week. We wouldn't have to do that, we could have waited for a student after the eighth grade, but it's so bad in professional school when it comes to the basics that we have to do this. We adjust and one qualification appears. However, it contains those 3 qualifications that were earlier. Written software bases with employer It's about to happen. Together with the Central Examination Board, we will want to train employers because they want them to. It's about getting them to sit on their exams and so they can take their exams at the workplace. That's because we ran out of money to keep up with. Although we also think about it together with marshal offices, which for some reason abstained from spending money, among others. for vocational education. There, ladies and gentlemen, are 3 billion PLN for vocational schools. I hope we don't waste the next four years and actually build a system that will serve this school. Because he wasn't supposed to be the result of an international study in 2000. After these studies, in which a young person in vocational education was less successful, it was considered necessary to do profiling high school. And in fact, vocational education lives thanks to teachers and directors, as well as the support of companies, because it is really necessary. And now, ladies and gentlemen, as far as vocational education is concerned, what I have announced and what we will carry out, we will have an inventory of the education subsidy before us. She is completely illegible, completely archaic, some weights have their names in the ministry, liberated for various kinds of solutions. There will be a variety of educational subsidies. Therefore, I am proud to present the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber, which, one month after the announcement of the outcome of our debates, actually confirmed with its reports the state of the vocational education system. It cannot be that huge money, money from education subsidies is spent on education for unemployed people. No, we're gonna give more where it's connected to the labour market. We reach, ladies and gentlemen, also for the corps of professionals. They're nothing more than retired vocational school teachers. Because, as we say, we need to make sure that we use the potential of teachers to get back into the system, so in the case of vocational education there are no teachers. Hence the idea that was born in the educational cluster in Wałbrzych, in the special economic zone, so that together with school heads and curators remember the excellent retired teachers of vocational education. Employers simply need them. And at the same time, ladies and gentlemen, when you discussed it, there was information about why one system was better and the other was worse. What is most common with parents, ladies and gentlemen, is to interfere with the child's education. Because it's not a three-stage system, it's a four-stage system: I-III, IV-VI, I-III, I-III. In fact, no one was finishing anything, no one was involved with their environment, no one was related to their class or to their tutor or their director. Look at the U.S. and British research, back in the '90s, because they've already evaluated this system. By the time the middle school was introduced, it really was already shown there, what a dysfunction this stage is. We're talking about a graduate. Graduate, ladies and gentlemen, is the one who has the following competences: mathematics, IT, and language. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, strengthening bilingualism, strengthening sports and at the same time taking care of artistic schools. It's also a young man who reads, knows the history of literature, doesn't allow him to manipulate, because he can distinguish texts. Not only culture, but also everyday lyrics, and he can teach that to his student. Also the one who knows his past to build the future. Ladies and gentlemen, there were also questions, statements about centralisation and lack of respect for local governments. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the first time the Polish government has taken their tasks seriously. I do not know if you remember that 3 years ago there were such manifestations, quiet of course, connected with the fact that local governments said then that the government had delegated, imposed on them tasks worth PLN 8 billion and therefore have huge financial problems. Minister Rafalska started... 500+ not only improved the indicators in local government budgets. The money goes straight for this system to work. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, there's an education grant for a six-year-old. It's from the Ministry of Education. And here's a thank you for preparing a kindergarten together for six-year-olds. It appears, ladies and gentlemen, valorization. We don't say "please find the means," and that's what happened. And so there are more than 400 million additional funds for local governments due to the valorization. We're not talking about a raise here, ladies and gentlemen. We're discussing a raise in the right authorities, because it's a responsibility. also for the budget of the local government. Ladies and gentlemen, the local authorities have been unable to ask for the grant system to be sealed over the past few years. We did it together with local government officials in a bill signed by the President of the Republic on 7 July. Ladies and gentlemen, when we discuss money... Mr. Marshal Borusewicz repeated what appeared in the media. There's a down payment: 1 billion, 140 billion, 8 billion. I'm gonna make a point. 140 billion That's how many local governments spent on middle school. Ladies and gentlemen, this is nothing more than the sum of subsidies, or, in fact, the cost of subsidies for 17 years per student in this age range. So it doesn't matter if there's middle school or not. And yes, there would still be such expenses, because such a subsidy was passed on to children. So that's the wrong argument. Another amount: PLN 8 billion for investments. I ask the High Senate to make a simple mathematical account: 8 billion divided by 17 years and divided by several thousand municipalities gives... Please note that this is the amount of several hundred thousand per municipality. I think we owe that much to education. At the same time information appeared, among others. in the opinion of the Association of Polish Cities I talk to self-government people every day, drive around and count the money, count the jobs. That you need 1 billion. This count was, I would say, one-time, ladies and gentlemen, and assumed that the yearbook of 13-year-olds would emigrate from Poland. This yearbook is, and in addition it is better financed by the educational grant, such is the difference between the funding of children in junior high and primary school. The money directly earmarked for reform, in addition to 1.5 billion in subsidies for six-year-olds, 418 million for valorization, is 900 million, including amounts for additional branches and equipment. Let me just remind you of the equipment we're talking about. We're talking about 2,000 independent junior high schools. 2,000 80 to be precise. Which will need to be adapted. They'll have to be equipped with furniture for the little ones. There's money for it. There is money for this, just as there are bookshelves for libraries and for the preparation of lighthouses. It's gonna be an average of 100,000 in two divisions in each school. Just multiply it by 2,000. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are absolutely ready. Including the budget reserve 04... This is a reserve that responds to local government requests when you have to make various kinds of investments or payouts for additional tasks. This year, for the first time in many years, we have implemented all the proposals of local authorities, although there was a very large component related to the task, a satisfactory task, in the form of renovations of schools, which were preparing to receive pilgrims during World Youth Days. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, I would like to say that we are proposing educational law and introductory rules in which we show that nothing will change in primary school. By law, directors and teachers will be successors to a 6-year-old school. In middle school, which are in teams, and most of them are, nothing will change except the sign. The Licea are waiting together with the districts that have stopped adopting winding-up resolutions, because there is indeed a huge than demographic one. Vocational education is waiting. And we have, ladies and gentlemen, 2,000 80 middle schools. It's enough, ladies and gentlemen, that once the local government has passed a resolution that there's a primary school in each of these junior high schools, and that leaves the principal and teachers and they're 5 years old to transform. What's the parole officer for? Because it was actually a unionist postulate too, and we have done a lot of union postulates. What's the parole officer for? Yeah, so that, among other things. Help. There is one resolution, ladies and gentlemen. In addition, the local government asked us to draw up a draft of this resolution. We will do this and we will, ladies and gentlemen, be with local government officials throughout the transformation period. I hope the High Senate will accept this bill, and apart from the fact that together with the Ministry of Education, for the benefit of every child, it will be transformed, that when decisions are made, we will be in these schools together. And I'm at your disposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u5	Thank you, Minister. Since proposals of a legislative nature have been submitted to the Law and to the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on Education, I ask the Commission on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Science, Education and Sport to respond to the proposals submitted and prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on the laws under consideration will be held in the voting block. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, today marks the 35th anniversary of the tragic events that took place on December 16, 1981 in the mine "Uncle." As a result of the brutal pacification carried out by the companies of Zomo and ORMO, 9 miners were murdered. Please rise and celebrate with a minute of silence the memory of the tragically dead, murdered 9 miners. [[Everybody up.]] [[A moment of silence]] [[Give them eternal rest, Lord.]] [[They answer, "Let eternal light shine upon them."]] [[Let them rest in eternal peace.]] [[The assembled answer: Amen.]] [[They'll stay in our memory.]] Thank you very much. Mr. and Mrs. Senators, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by items: the Act amending the Act on Gambling and some other laws. and consider it as a point of the twenty-sixth agenda; Act on the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Poland and consider it as item twenty-seven of the agenda; the Law on the Principles for the Management of State Property.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I would also like to propose a joint examination of points twenty-eight and twenty-nine. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u6	Mr Marshal, I object to the intention to include on the agenda 3 laws: the Law on the Rules of State Property Management, the Law on the Law implementing this Law and the Act on the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Poland. In total, these 3 related laws count 170 pages and contain 313 articles. There was no chance that the committee would be able to look closely at these rules and there was also no time for us to prepare for the discussion. I therefore request that this item be postponed to the next sitting. [[But it's not a matter of shifting... now it's not...]] I'm filing for no entry, and so... [[For not admitting, because I'm proposing a supplement, and you're against it.]] ...transfer to the next session...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u7	Okay, that's the... [[Mr. Marshal, formal motion.]] Yes, hello? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u8	I'm filing a formal motion for a 10-minute break to allow the senators to take part in the vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u9	You know, Mr. Marshal, I can give you... but there are so many senators in the courtroom... We started at 9:30, now it's 10:10 and each of the senators had the opportunity to reach the O.R. I do not understand this proposal as a formal application submitted by the club. So you're welcome, Mr. Senator... Because you didn't file that motion on behalf of the club, you reported him as a marshal. There you go, Mr. Senator. [[Thank you, Mr. Marshal...]] [[No, no, as a senator.]] As a senator. [[As a senator of the club.]] Yeah, I get it. Good. If it were reported on behalf of the club, I'd have agreed to 10 minutes, but if the senator is...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u10	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'm calling... [[Yes, hello?]] ...against Senator Borusewicz's motion. [[I see. Thank you very much.]] The Senators of Law and Justice are prepared to vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u11	They're ready. Thank you very much. We will vote, ladies and gentlemen... [[The Senators at the PiS probably knew there was going to be a vote...]] Mr. Marshal, I'm so sorry, everyone had the opportunity to find out, because we had very detailed information on this subject, we spoke at the Senior Convention meeting, what the order would be, and what our vote would look like. And each senator has been informed that at an hour... [[That at 10:11 p.m. there'll be a vote on the introduction... no, we didn't talk about it.]] That at 9:00... and that at 9:30... Okay, we're voting. Everyone had... In my opinion, everyone had the opportunity... Besides, you can see that there are a lot of senators, and on the left, and on the right I see a lot of senators, even I'm convinced there's more than... There are 70 senators in my eye. But, of course, we will vote on these two proposals. As Senator Augustin's first motion. I propose that the agenda be supplemented by those items I have tabled. And we vote my... [[Voice from the courtroom: Maybe I'll ask for a break first, because it's...]] Oh, a break, huh? Okay, you're right. That's a very good point. Although that conclusion was second, but it's more logical... I agree with that. We are voting on Mr. Marshal Borusewicz's motion for a 10-minute break. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 72 senators voted, 16 votes against, 55 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 46]] Your Marshal's motion was rejected. I was wrong about two people earlier. Good. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now voting on my proposal. Because it was my offer, first. The senator has objected. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the senators is in favour of completing the agenda by 4 previously mentioned and read items... You want me to read those points? [[Voice from the room: No 4. Mr. Marshal reported... about the D.A., not about the management of property...]] Whoa, whoa, whoa. You're against... wait a minute... The Attorney General... [[Voice from the room: And two total about the rules of property management.]] And two... So, as far as I'm concerned, gambling hasn't been reported, right, Senator? [[Voices from the room: No.]] No. Gambling games don't. Good. [[Voice from the room: Let's vote on this point about the prosecutors first, and then...]] Those two. Good. This, ladies and gentlemen, we must... [[Voice from the O.R.: About the D.A.]] Yes, you're absolutely right. We are voting on my proposal. Who is in favour of the proposal to complete the agenda for the item: Act on the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Poland And consider this point as point twenty-seven? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. There were 73 senators voted, 56 against, 17 against. [[Voting No 47]] My proposal has been accepted. Who is in favour of supplementing the agenda by two points: the Law on the Principles for the Management of State Property and considering it as point twenty-eighth; and the Law on the Rules for the Management of State Property and considering it as point twenty-nine of the agenda; and... It is also a request for the combined consideration of these points. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. There were 73 senators voted, 56 against, 17 against. [[Voting No 48]] I would like to inform you that the High House has accepted my proposal to complete the agenda with these 4 items mentioned above, as well as the proposal that we should consider the 2 final points together. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-six of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Gambling and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 389, and the committee's report in print No 389 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At today's meeting, the Commission has examined the law on amending the Act on Gambling and certain other laws adopted at the 30th Second Meeting of the Sejm, on 15 December, and recommends that the High Senate adopt this law without amendment. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u13	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u14	Mr President, Mr Senator, I did not participate in the deliberations of your committee, and today, and yesterday, and there was so much work in previous days that I could not get acquainted with this law, therefore I have two questions, I would say, basic, based on media reports. Firstly, I would like to know whether it is true that we are introducing a monopoly on gambling by means of this law and, if so, to what extent. Secondly, since this law enters into force and how the issue of those economic operators who have invested privately in gaming salons will be regulated. Will they have any right to compensation? Is there gonna be a transition period? How is it regulated?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u15	Thank you so much for these questions. The first question concerned the scope of the monopoly. The scope of the state monopoly is increased when it comes to gambling. This monopoly is extended to games on slots and online casinos. In this respect, this law extends the state monopoly. I'm sure you can see the senators in your districts blooming in these arcade games. Customs confiscate tens of thousands of these slots, but they return very quickly, very quickly reappear. We are dealing with some state weakness in the control of these gambling games, which are, in fact, very addictive games. Games on slots are very addictive games, so the appropriate move is to extend the state monopoly to this type of gambling. In June 2016, we received such information from the Minister at the committee meeting, all the concessions that have so far been issued for the running of these arcades have expired. As I understand it, those who invested in such activities were aware of the timeliness of their concessions After all, their business plans had to foresee the fact that in June 2016 the concessions ended, and if they are still in business at the moment, they are already operating outside the concession. The Act shall enter into force on 1 April 2017.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u16	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, and then Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u17	Mr. Senator, how much is it going to contribute to the budget? What amounts will be entered in the budget in connection with this bill, because, I understand, the monopoly gives this opportunity.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u18	Thank you. Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u19	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question inspired by your statement. Are there any approximate estimates of how much the operator of such a device can gain per year in the case of such a machine? Of course, I'm talking about legal profit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u20	Thank you. Are there any more questions for Senator President? Mr. Senator Pekkis.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u21	In the opinion of the President, will this bill actually prohibit the running of these salons, which are scattered around small towns and to which the addicts are driving the economy?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u22	Thank you. Are there any more questions? I don't see any calls. Please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u23	Thank you very much. Well, the bill provides for... I'm answering Senator Pekkis's question. The Act provides that a single game device may be located in the localities in proportion to a thousand inhabitants. For 1,000 inhabitants, that's the proportion, so imagine... Probably because of this, the arcade games will disappear on slot machines located at the moment in containers near gas stations or in various other places. I assume that the Polish state will be firm here and will enforce it. The aim of this law, which is worth noting, is to ensure the highest level of protection of players against the negative effects of gambling. That's the most important purpose of this bill. People are very quickly addicted to gambling, just this automatic gambling, which is now widely available. As far as revenue is concerned, I'm answering your Marshal's question. It was during the committee meeting that the Minister informed us that during the period when these machines were operating legally, the revenue generated by companies legally operating this activity was about PLN 20 billion per year. Yes, Minister? Did I get the information right? If not, correct it. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Wiesław Janczyk: 20 billion is the revenue of the entire industry.]] The whole business? Thank you very much. The whole business. In that case, if you'll excuse me, I'll redirect this question to the Minister. The Minister has detailed information. We didn't ask for details at the committee's meeting, how much revenue was generated from what kind of gambling. There was also no question as to the amount of the projected budgetary benefits associated with this law. I'm sure the Minister will give you precise information. I wouldn't want to suggest right now... I've seen all kinds of data. I would not like to mislead your marshal with any information that would come from a debate in the Sejm or from a press release. The Minister is present and he will certainly give a precise answer here. I guess that's it for this.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u24	Thank you very much. Senator Comfort.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u25	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, was there any discussion at the committee meeting about what the senator just mentioned? If I understand correctly, the senator said that in June the legal licenses for private operators to run vending machines expired. At the same time, the aim of this law is to limit the number of slots and games. In that case, as I understand it, all these vending machines have been operating illegally for the past six months? [[So, what do you think of this country?]] It means that... the lack of a license didn't cause these machines to be wiped out. So for the last six months, all these games have been organized illegally, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u26	Thank you. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, and then Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u27	Senator rapporteur, why do you think the monopoly will reduce addiction? The spirit monopoly of the country, which has existed for many years, was rather driving the addiction to high-interest liquors. On what basis do you believe that the monopoly of the state in this case will reduce addiction?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u28	Thank you. Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u29	Senator rapporteur, gambling has many names and develops as civilization develops. You didn't mention anything. Maybe it wasn't a discussion about gambling on the Internet. Gambling is as if triggered by internal energy of Poles, but there is also gambling imported from other countries via the Internet. So the question is, is this also the subject of the bill? And the second question concerns the control of this process.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u30	Thank you very much. Maybe I'll start by asking Senator Rulewski. Yes, the law regulates online gambling very precisely and introduces a state monopoly. The websites of the providers of these gambling games will be blocked. Payments will also be blocked And that's probably the most important blockade. . to providers of such online services. So here we are dealing with the blocking of websites. There will also be a message informing the player that he is on a website that belongs to a supplier operating outside the Polish legal regime. Such information will appear, so those who will enter these pages will be fully aware that they are located on the supplier's website, which is not accepted in the territory of Poland. So as far as the Internet is concerned, I think this case is well described here. I very much believe in closing the supply of money for these suppliers. The banking system is able to deal with this problem easily. While, as we all know, blocking websites is difficult because we are dealing with various ideas of clever hackers, as far as blocking payments is concerned, this is something that the Polish banking system is able to easily implement. So first of all, the cash flow will be cut off for those suppliers who are going to try to get past the state monopoly. Senator Pociej asked about this period from June to today. During the meeting, the Minister informed us that the government had prepared this law very carefully, ensuring proper notification of this regulation. One of the reasons why the grey zone in Poland could function smoothly was that the previous acts that regulated gambling were not notified. Polish courts in their judgments did not indicate suppliers who were operating in the grey zone precisely because of this legal gap which has existed in recent years. We did not deal with correct notifications, so these acts could not function properly in Poland. The government has prepared this very carefully. We also asked that during the committee meeting. I also asked the Minister to prepare for us the information we have already obtained. It is attached to the minutes of the committee's meeting, information on the differences between the project which has been notified to the European Commission and the law adopted by the Sejm. These differences are not important. As the Minister pointed out, there is no risk that the Commission will consider the law adopted to be outside the scope of the notification. So that's it. As for the Marshal's question, can a monopoly counteract addiction... Unlike solutions for a spirit monopoly, here we have a limit. With a limit on equipment and therefore also a limit on access to gambling. You can easily count how many hours you can play on these slots. There is therefore a restriction on access. In the case of a spirit monopoly, as we know, Mr. Marshal, there is no production restriction. Right? There is no restriction on the production of products covered by a spirit monopoly. In this respect, we are talking about reducing the number of machines, and we are talking about reducing the number of casinos that will operate on the existing rules. Casinos will be able to function in proportion: 1 casino per 650,000 inhabitants. I know that Senator Włosowicz noticed that this regulation will cause only 1 casino to operate in the Świętokrzyskie voivodship, because in Świętokrzyskie voivodship we have slightly over 1 million 200 thousand inhabitants. So there is no second, full 650 thousand citizens for whom this casino could be done. The majority of committee members are convinced that it is rather good that there is such a limitation. At the meeting there were even votes from the senators that we would like to ban this gambling, because it is harmful to households. Nevertheless, we are aware that it is better to regulate it properly, to limit it. And in this sense, a state monopoly is the right tool to reduce the scale of this harmful phenomenon, which is gambling. Of course, we are not talking about mutual bets here, which I would like to make clear. Mutual bets are, so to speak, soft gambling. He's allowed under the conditions so far. The law even increases the possibility of advertising these betting bets, for the benefit of Polish sport, because it is sports organisations that will benefit from the popularization of these betting bets. But this is more fun than gambling, and in this respect there is no need to increase control and to introduce a monopoly. I hope I answered your questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u31	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Development and Finance has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Wiesław Janczyk: No. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.]] Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jackowski and then Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u32	Mr. Marshal, thank you for your voice. Minister, I have a question about the income side. What are the revenues from the gambling industry in Poland, what are the revenues to the budget from this industry, and what will they be after adoption of this regulation? Will they increase or decrease? I'm still interested in this individual... If we have a slot machine like that... That's what I asked Senator Bierecki. I understand that these amounts were not paid at the committee meeting. What could be the operator's income per year from such a one-handed bandit, from this gambling machine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u34	I would have asked for an assessment of the budget revenue after the monopoly was introduced. I'm sure the ministry was doing some math. Minister, and the bets are mutual, I understand, because I don't know anything about these games... Is betting a bet a bet a bet a game? [[Voice from the gym: Who wins the game.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u35	Thank you. Are there any more questions? [[Voices from the room: No.]] Then I'll ask the Minister for an answer... [[Voice from the room: There it is.]] Oh, I'm sorry. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u36	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The question is related to the question I raised at the committee meeting, namely poker. We allow you to organize poker games in casinos, but also outside them, entities that run casinos. And that could still be understood when it comes to fiscal issues. Because let's remember that the law on the one hand limits certain rights, certain privileges... maybe not so much privileges as certain rights related to gambling, as if it sealed the system. And rightly so, and in this respect. it should be commended But in the case of poker it expands this system. But I think it's already unacceptable to allow poker tournaments to be run by, practically taking, any player It may also be a natural person and a legal person, as well as an organizational unit without legal personality. Of course, there is the matter of filing the Rules of Procedure and the question of reporting to the IRS. But while the rules of procedure are approved, the application to the tax office is simply a notification, there is not even a procedure for refusing any reply by the tax office. The IRS, as in the case of municipal assembly, accepts the application and that's all. So, practically, there will be freedom when it comes to organizing poker games, I remind you, outside the casino games and by entities that are authorized to do so in the casino games. That's the first line. Second line. You're allowing... And the question is, why is that? I mean, when it comes to poker, the minister's gonna sort of explain himself, 'cause I think it was in the government presentation. But there's a second point about how we can advertise betting. Why are you expanding... On the one hand, the law disciplines this market, which is profitable and very vulnerable to non-legal activities, and on the other hand, it sort of waters it up. What happened that we had to agree to a betting ad? Isn't a lottery commercial enough?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u37	Are there any more questions for the Minister? Senator Rooster.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u38	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! I'd like you to answer these questions. First question. From the article. 15 of this law is clear about legal gambling That the maximum number of slots allowed is 60 thousand. As of today, we're saying there's five to ten thousand legal vending machines. Well, in my opinion, the number of vending machines will increase by almost $40,000. Second question. Is it true? Psychologists provide such statistics That currently addicted to slot games is about 28,000 people and that the number of people who will be addicted to gambling will rise to 300 thousand? You've already asked Senator Czerwinski a third question about poker. And the truth is that without a license, they can try to get permission to hold a tournament, but this tournament is rather a sport tournament without prizes. Thank you, Minister. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u39	Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u40	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I would like to ask the Minister about such a matter. If the contents of Mr Rooster's question are true, is it true that we should vote against this law?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u41	Thank you. Are there any more questions? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u42	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have a question resulting from the discussion at the moment, but also from a certain observation of the social phenomenon as to the presence of slot machines. I can see that a very large number of slots are located in restaurants or bars or petrol stations, in large parking lots, where they most often use these slots, which have a long time to rest the driver, especially the TIR driver. And a second observation, and a social one. Because the presence of slot machines is also noticeable in shops selling alcohol, especially those selling alcohol for 24 hours. Maybe I'm wrong, and these are some other gaming devices, but I see these machines in alcoholic shops where alcohol is sold for 24 hours. My question is: does the law regulate this issue somehow, or does it pay attention? I ask this in the context of the fact that we are also dealing with gambling, with a certain social disease and its attachment to other negative phenomena is dangerous because of a certain social assessment of this situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u43	Thank you very much. I'd like to say hello to a delegation from Vietnam at the gallery. Poland, which is staying with us at the invitation of Senator Napieralski, with the president of Nguyen Thi Thuc Anh. Welcome. Now I'm asking the Minister to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u44	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Thank you for a thorough study of this document, which we present as a government project, which was sent to the Senate after the third reading and was sent to the High House after the work of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance to request adoption without amendments. The chairman of this committee, Mr Grzegorz Bierecki, spoke very precisely about many aspects of this regulation. If you don't mind, I would like to address the questions, although I would also like to say a few words in general, using the opportunity to speak. This regulation is another, we hope, regulation that will clarify the operating conditions of the industry in such a way as to first lead to the protection of the player and, secondly, reduce the functioning of the grey zone. And these are the fundamental objectives of this law. It is not a fiscal objective. There were questions about the extent of the state budget's gambling revenue. Currently these revenues generate mainly the Totalizator Sports and casinos. And implementation in the Budget Act shows that these are revenues of about PLN 1.3 billion per year. This fiscal objective is not important here. It is important for the Polish state today to regulate the whole area, which can be said, has got out of hand after the gambling event, especially in 2009, when Prime Minister Donald Tusk said that there will be no renewal of authorisations for the operation of slots. At that time, when they were functioning on the principles adopted by law, we had about 70,000 of these devices on a national scale. These were devices with low and high wins. Today in this project we are trying to systematize this area according to the definition that there is no division that these are low- and high-win slots. Because it caused some discrepancies, apart from those of Senator Bierecki, in the interpretation of the rules. The device had to be tested first whether it was a low-win device or a high-win device. And of course, the contractual issue was what stakes on this device, with a random generator, are being played. The device was often confiscated. A few months took time to evaluate in individual laboratories what class it is a device and what it actually offers. The situation was further complicated by opposing court rulings in similar situations. Annually, e.g. In 2014, and 2015, approximately 30,000 such devices were confiscated or taken for research. Some of the equipment had to be returned as a result of disputes. Therefore, following the model of countries that have very transparent tax regulations and other provisions, we have adopted a solution that, in the case of parts of the industry, introduces... I mean, we don't monopolize gambling in its entirety. The state will only have a monopoly for part of this industry, in the case of slots and online casinos and online gambling. This is a segment that under the law will be assigned to a public operator who will carry out tasks in this area. At the disposal of commercial operators remains the entire segment in which the gambling casinos operate today, and the whole segment of betting, which includes bookmakers and totalizers. So that entrepreneurs who obtain appropriate consent under this law will be able to function in this area. They asked what the assumptions related to the change in the revenue of the state budget were. In the impact assessments, it is prudent to assume that, in the end, after installing the entire infrastructure and introducing regulation in the area of the Internet, the change in budget revenue will amount to PLN 1.5 billion. In the OSR for the first year of operation there is PLN 729 million, but in fact in the draft budget law we have taken the even more cautious assumption that it will amount to PLN 300 million. Why? Because the process of notification of this document in the European Union, which has already been abandoned several times in previous years and which has caused many difficulties in interpreting the law, is a long and tedious process. Let me just say that if it were not necessary, we would have come to you four months earlier. The document which had left the Council of Ministers and entered the Sejm for its first reading required notification. We received this notification at the end of last month and immediately started further work on this document, and now the date of entry into force of the Act was set, just after the arrangements during the notification, on 1 April. It takes into account the expectations of the European Commission and the fact that, in connection with this document, if it leaves the High Senate Chamber and is signed by your President, we will also notify the implementing acts and regulations to exclude, in the end, all unnecessary issues concerning procedures and the determination of what is legal and what is not. Systematisation of this area in addition to the market-sharing elements I mentioned It also needs to define new parameters for the protection of companies that operate legally and want to pay taxes, and pay those taxes, including in the internet space. The competences and rules for blocking websites on the Internet and providing payment services that entitle betting to play have been defined. This, in general terms, was the basics I wanted to present. As far as I'm concerned, Mr. Vice-Marshal's first question, I answered very precisely. As for the amount of income... [[But is it about total income, or is it going to be so much more...]] Mr. Marshal, I can call it back. We estimate that, after the entry into force of this law, revenue to the state budget, corresponding to the 2017 budget revenue plan, will increase this year by about PLN 300 million. [[Oh, they'll grow.]] They'll grow, yeah. [[That's what I'm talking about.]] I also said that this is a careful respect, because implementation may take a while, putting the entire infrastructure in this area, as well as regulating the functioning of online gambling, which has so far not actually been regulated at all. So the numbers that you called Senator Bierecki, determining the size of this market, with reference to 2009, when in this regulated zone it was possible to estimate revenues of about 20 billion, and they fell by half in 2015, to just over 10 billion, determine the scale of the grey zone, without actually taking into account the internet. This means that this gray area, which has grown so uncontrollably, is much larger. And we are trying in this document to create a field and regulations that will reduce the gray zone and protect the player. Here is a number of provisions that are now deciding that this protection will work. It's a matter of registration, it's a matter of like records of the use of these types of services and these types of entertainment. There was also talk of a location here. The location will be decided by the Minister of Finance through a regulation issued. And in the article. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 also specifies these location conditions. In addition, in the project we also specify that these cannot be those locations where the activity was carried out illegally. Today, in fact, as it has already fallen here, all these vending machines, which are used, are operating outside the permit. The permits expired, expired in a successive manner and every year, but actually by June there were still some trace permits, now they're gone. Whether she's coming or going down, whether she's coming or losing those vending machines, she's also been going through the questions. What I'm trying to say is that when these permits were issued in the maximum number, they were over 70,000 vending machines. Today, the legislator has set the maximum number for about half of that, for 1 000 inhabitants of 1 slot machine, with a minimum of 3 slots being displayed in one place. So that there will be no distraction, which was so annoying, many people opposed, and rightly, that everywhere there is such a temptation to use this device. Slots of between 3 and 50 units will be able to be accumulated by the service provider. We are creating a very clean, clear situation for the player, the introduction of a monopoly in this segment causes that there will be no such temptation, an incentive for a number of different entities to offer services tamed by the action of the state in this segment, as until today, in an illegal manner. It will be known that here is one entity with such and such a name will perform this service, and each player will know that the game in the entity that provides all the standards, and it will not be as if it were disinformed. The same will apply to the Internet. They were asking questions about advertising. I would like to say that the original assumption was that in this regulation, which is not a new law, but a change of law, a step away from matters, I would say, less important, focus on the most important ones that will seal the entire market and put it in a zone where it has not been fully operational so far. And it seems appropriate that, for example. the project has not raised the issue of taxation. We left this for another discussion, focusing on those elements that were supposed to civilise this market after the post. When it comes to poker, there are questions here... Indeed, these regulations differ from one country to another. By virtue of this law, poker will function, as before, in casinos. Casinos will also be able to organize poker competitions outside their seat. Other entities will be able to apply for permission and, with the agreement of the Minister of Finance, organise such competitions, but only for wins in kind I mean, diplomas or maybe some kind of trophy. Not exceeding PLN 2 000. There was a very long discussion about letting you play poker online. This discussion has been stopped for one reason today. If we want to block the parties of illegal entities, often foreign ones, which currently operate in the internet space, we can say in an uncontrollable way, then we must remember that the launch of even this single game, this single offer in this area would result in a huge sealing of the entire system and complications related to these, it seems, for today, quite precisely recorded competences as to the ability to block pages and limit the use of payments. I don't want to talk about blocking payments because it would be a little different mechanism. Today we want to make sure that financial institutions, clearing institutions do not cooperate to any extent with entities that do not have a license to provide services in this area in Poland. It seems like it's written enough and it's gonna be pretty tight. Similarly, there are high penalties for organizing these games, and I'm talking about slot games. As well as having these devices without proper... Ladies and gentlemen, a short trip to the addiction zone. There was a lot of data down here. Here's what I'm gonna say. We have a source, a report entitled. An assessment of the prevalence of selected behavioural addictions and analysis of the correlation between the occurrence of behavioural addictions and the use of psychoactive substances from April 2015. This is a research project carried out by the Foundation of the Centre for Social Opinion Research. Let me give you a few parts. In 2012 it played in a way that could lead to addiction 3,7% Poles aged 15+, of which 0,2% has already had a serious problem with it; in 2014 these indicators are higher: symptoms of addiction occur in 5.3% Poles, including 0.7%, are highly at risk of gambling addiction. And then, the group with the highest proportion of people at risk of addiction is young people who are 18 and 24 years old. In this report we also read that the level of risk of addiction is associated with the type of games grown by players, and the safest are the numbers games of the Sports Totalizer. And one more part: The most so-called. heavy users, i.e. people who play daily or several times a week, is among the players playing the game Sports Totalizator (3.8% ), playing on slots (1.4%) ) and scratch cards (1% ). Total 7.1% Poles aged 15+ are people who play any game for money every day or several times a week (at least 2 times). According to this report, the estimated number of pathological gamblers in Poland is about 28 000 people, and the number of people treated 3,000 141 people. That's the data from this report. I recall that there was another question about advertising, the scope of advertising after this regulation. I want to say yes. To this day, we had quite a problem with this, because there were different kinds of competences regarding the placement of these advertisements. Today, the legislator proposes that entities which have the legal capacity to operate may advertise in the light of the rules that apply in Poland to alcohol advertising, i.e. provisions restricting the possibility of advertising, excluding advertising during sports events. It has been so far so that it was very difficult to control this advertising market, so those who acted illegally in Poland entered this segment of advertising, while those who acted with the license were limited by Polish law. It seems that this is... I do not hide the fact that the discussion on this subject was very hot, also at the meeting of the Sports Committee. It seems that this law clarifies this element to the extent, I would say, expected, and also rationalises certain events in advertising space. I hope that the players organising the sports competition will be able to actually act in this way. And I also hope that this will benefit in the form of more activity in sport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Jackowski, and then Mr. Senator Czerwiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u46	Thank you very much. Minister, I didn't get an answer to one of my questions. It concerned the estimated annual profit or income of the operator of this device. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Wiesław Janczyk: Yes, I am replying.]] I don't know how to put it professionally, but I'm talking about profiting from this one device. And while I'm at the voice, And this is the second point, and I would ask you to develop an issue that seems very valuable, namely that some of the funds that will come from the proceeds of these games are intended to be used to build civil society. Because it's, I guess, a novel in this bill. Would I ask the Minister to develop this element, namely to clarify how likely these funds will be for these organisations, the NGOs that will be able to benefit from this funding? What row of sizes are we talking about? I know these are very cautious budget projections at the moment, but please elaborate so that the senators simply have an image of how much money will flow in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u47	Thank you very much. And Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u48	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I will admit that the more you answer, the more concerned I am about these two issues. As I was saying, in this basic layer that has been proposed here, I am very much in favour of sealing the system and, as you say, civilising it. But as far as advertising issues are concerned, when I read that advertising should not reach young people and children, i.e. it should by definition be banned between 6:00 and 10:00 p.m. And you're right. At the same time, I see that in the same paragraph it is said that you can advertise during sports events... Yeah, and it could be shown on TV. Not much, you can advertise at mass events at any time. In the first case, as well as at events. Well, I'll admit I'm feeling a little disgusted, because that means that the state on one hand is sealing this system. Okay, okay, okay, okay, And on the other hand, unfortunately, you allow it to be sealed. Here you turn the tap, and elsewhere you make a little hole, which will then grow to the size of a big hole. As for the poker issue, Minister, there are two entries here, and one of them concerns entities that do not have a licence. Indeed, the amount of prizes is limited to half the average wage, but it's not enough either, because in the countryside 2,000... Well, you'd have to organize a tournament like this and see how many people would be willing to win the 2,000. That's the first line. And the second point is that an entity that is licensed can organize off-site tournaments outside the casino. And here the amount of prizes is not limited. How can you be sure... Oh, and he's just calling it in. It shall register the general rules of procedure with the relevant minister and then report it only to the tax office, which shall not be refused. Do you have any idea... According to this law, is it possible that any smart player from, let's assume, X casinos operating in the voivodship city suddenly in all this voivodship, in all the cultural houses, will make a series of poker tournaments with unlimited winnings? Is that possible under this law? 'Cause I think it is. Is that what this is about? [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u49	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u50	Thank you very much. Maybe I'll start by saying that, indeed, under this law, as a result of the amendment tabled at second reading The law as it left the Sejm The Civil Society Development Fund will be set up. He will be the beneficiary of 4% payments from numbers games, and this amount may amount to about PLN 40 million per year. There was a question of how much revenue one machine brings. Based on the data we have on the revenues that generate slots in casino games, we can say that this is the amount of PLN 30,000 a year. When it comes to slots that are in the casino games, it gives a certain picture of the situation. As far as the others are concerned, strictly depends very much on the location. That is why we do not have such data, the more that this market was still quite heavily decomposed. And to answer Senator Czerwinski's question... In fact, there's only one thing left to explain. The massage of the use of the provisions of this law or the multiplication of these rules into any number of possibilities for playing poker. Mr. Senator, I have to tell you this: your point of view was opposed to a very strongly represented other point of view of the game of poker. And believe me, in this bill, we really did not allow this scope, which many people, acting from a very different point of view, from the antipodes of your approach in this segment, have appeared. It's been balanced, I'd be it. He called it a consensus. Yes? He's taking a step in the direction you were talking about. Yes? The Lord here summoned 2,000 PLN in certain realities. But I repeat: it's not 2,000 zlotys, it's supposed to be prizes up to a maximum of that amount. Like I said, a diploma, possibly a trophy... [[Plus the fridge.]] I do not know, Mr. Senator, the answers, I do not know how to solve these dilemmas, because, as I say, in the course of working on the bill there appeared opposing positions which were very strongly represented, according to which the game of poker should simply be liberalised in an absolute manner. I had to use a lot of energy to stop it, using the arguments that have already been made here, which I referred to, that the launch of poker in an unstoppable way on the Internet, beside what the bill raises to the rank of monopoly, would bring again big problems and interpretation complications. Also in this discussion we used the argument that, however, playing poker outside the market to which casinos are admitted today would also give the opportunity to legitimize money from undisclosed sources. Those were our only arguments. The issue of ensuring the integrity of the online gambling offer in Poland was a significant issue that did not allow us to go further towards the liberalisation of access to poker. I can't explain any more about this. I will not answer all the dilemmas that, in part, a significant part, maybe even the whole, Senator, are right.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u51	Thank you, Minister. Senator Adam Gawada. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u52	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In fact, I've already heard the answer, but I just want to ask because I didn't participate in the committee's work on this bill. Does the regulation about which the Minister was polite to say just now also include such a quite popular game in Silesia, a sports skate? There's a lot of things there, too, that there's a diploma as a reward, there's a trophy. These aren't very big prizes. Are these games covered by this law or by other regulations?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u53	Now you're gonna ask Senator Robert Gaweł another question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u54	Minister, because I didn't participate in the committee's work, I don't know if these questions have been raised. Didn't you consider a case like this? hand out a limited number of concessions and control of concession holders? That's the first question. Two. You said there were patterns of this monopoly system in other countries. Would you mind telling me what it is? Third. Do you believe in the effectiveness of Internet blockades? And the fourth question, concerning 3 funds that are funded from games, namely the Physical Culture Fund, the Culture Promotion Fund and the Gambling Problems Fund. Will there not be a reduction in subsidies to these 3 funds? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u55	Do any of you have a question for the Minister? I don't see any calls. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u56	Thank you very much. To answer the question of Senator Adam Gawada, I would like to say this: the law applies to all games whose result is random and which would be organised using financial means. That's the first question. As far as the senator's next question is concerned, I can answer that the slot machine market is monopolised in the Scandinavian countries, Sweden, Norway, Finland. As to the question whether the concept was being considered so as not to monopolise this segment Of course, it was considered. Of course, she was being considered. I would like to say that the bill was made under the protection of the CBA anti-corruption shield and all technical solutions, as well as the details of the segmentation of the market were determined by the right persons and in a certain manner. One can imagine a situation in which this segmentation of the market would be conducted differently, but in the manner in which our country could generate this document, decisions have been made about this direction. And that's the only answer. We can ask each day how to do this, starting from the very beginning, but it has already been done and decided in the right way, first through the work in the Ministry of Finance, the decisions of the Minister of Finance, then the Permanent Committee of the Council of Ministers, the Council of Ministers, the Sejm and the Senate. And here's the document. The question was whether blocking pages could be effective. I think so. The Minister of Finance has been given really powerful powers to make sure that all those who will operate in this area without proper legal legitimacy cannot act. The Minister of Finance will publish a list of online providers of services for which they do not have an authorisation. And entities that would present such services on their websites on their servers will be required to perform the blockade within 48 hours. If they do not do so, they will be subject to certain penalties set out in the Act. It will also have an objection to this decision by the Minister concerning these entities and then a normal procedure for appeal to the Provincial and Supreme Administrative Court.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u57	Thank you very much. Are there any questions for the Minister? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Wiesław Janczyk: Thank you kindly.]] [[Applause]] Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. You're welcome, Senator locksmith. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u58	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I've been waiting for this bill. I'm hoping she can solve the problems that have been discussed. I think it will also solve those that have not been mentioned, because there are more problems with gambling than has been said here. I think we're dealing with three powerful areas here that need to be regulated. On the one hand, human weakness, on the other hand the desire of public authority to get money, and on the other hand lobbying companies that want to make money on it. I think that this third element under this law, unlike what was in the history of Polish legislation, no longer exists. I would point out that the discussion of gambling, even in this room, is to some extent subject to an autocencer. Senator Bierecki avoided stating that these gambling points are currently operating illegally, only using such a term that they operate outside the concession. You used the same term as the Minister. It was also said that the state was inefficient in regulating gambling, which is also a euphemism. 'Cause, ladies and gentlemen, we're all walking around the city, and he knows that practically every point of the city at night, you can see some glowing neon. And at these points there are activities outside the concession, I call it illegal activities. So the degree of some kind of social demoralization of people who are aware that such a thing is happening is progressing. I, as a representative of public authority, am saddened by this. I wrote an interpellation on this point. This interpellation had a conclusion. Thank you, Minister... I mean, it was a senator's statement. The conclusion was that this law would come into force. So I am happy to accept this bill. There are still issues that have not been mentioned, ladies and gentlemen. This is the perspective of small cities, which may not be visible in Warsaw. There are 7 such gambling points in my 7,000th city. Of course, these points are played by specific people, these points are supported by specific people. And I have the impression that my knowledge of what is happening with gambling in Poland may be greater than even the Minister's knowledge. Namely, there is a person who emptys these gambling machines, which are supposed to be slot machines for small wins, and in the opinion of those who play there, it is easy to turn them into large win slots with one button. And a vending machine like that has to be drained of money, they're specific people. And that particular person. Of course, her credibility isn't 100%. She says she takes out a dozen thousand a day. A dozen thousand a day from a single vending machine. That's one thing. The second point is those points that work 24 hours a day. These are places where addicts meet with weak characters. These are places where social order is disturbed. My Senator's consultative point is a permanent place of visits of people who are neighbouring, living next door to such points, or people who have suffered from some fights around such a point. But there's one more thing I'm paying attention to. If you look at the construction of such points, you will see that there are either Venetian mirrors or tinted windows, so that from the inside you can see who is trying to get to such a point. Well, these are drug distribution sites, practically out of state control, because if they want to go in there, they'll be seen before. There's a camera system and the owner can watch what's going on online here. I also went to the police. The police do not keep a separate register of the number of criminal incidents or offences occurring around such points, somehow it escapes from those tables that are being conducted. I can see that these are places in cities, especially at night, worth avoiding. Such a painful aspect for me of this, let's say, the widespread phenomenon of gambling... And I would like to point out that in the history of Poland, especially in the 19th century, there are memories of cardinalism, when public authorities and priests at sermons fought against gambling. Then we had peace. And right now, there's a wave of this phenomenon coming again. And I think that we are responding to this and through public authorities, and through social action too poorly. This moment came back and came back in such a very sad way, I think, for all of us, that a large part of the 500+ program is unfortunately, so to speak, passed through slot machines, especially in small environments, somewhere where people are troubled by poverty and where the temptation to easily win large amounts is very motivating and at the same time very demoting these people. In conclusion, I would like to recall the authentic story that I was told, the story of my neighborhood, as a certain memento for the public authority, which, so to speak, reaches for this money. I understand that there is no good solution, but the fairness of reaching for that money is questionable. A young woman, in my territory, goes into labor and gives birth to a child. After 2 days she comes to visit her friend, from whom this woman learns that she has nowhere to go back, because her gambling addict husband has just sold the apartment and it has already been occupied by the buyer. So that with full faith and support for the minister to make it work... I would like this not to be just a dry record, but that now the services, which, say, are still responsible for this case, and which, I understand, because the courts had too lenient an approach to the case, i.e. customs officers, police officers, prosecutors and precisely these courts, with new energy, have taken the case. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo.]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u59	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Stanisław Rooster. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u60	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! Mr. Senator was really very specific about the problem of gambling. I do not hide that there are times when there are huge tragedies, family tragedies. Because, as I say, at ATMs, as Senator Rusiecki said earlier, drivers and other employees lose time and payouts. I, Mr and Mrs Dear, say that I am very pleased with this bill that Minister Janczyk... Under his leadership, there is a regulated issue of gambling. But we also have to say that Senator Czerwinski was asking questions about poker here. The game of poker will take place outside any control. And you also have to read the bill and say... I personally say that Poland can simply become an eldorado when it comes to schulzers and about what will happen in our, Dear country. Because if we compare ourselves... This is where Senator Gawl asked what it's like in other countries. Ladies and gentlemen, let's take America: only in two states In Nevada, it's in Las Vegas , and in the state of New York you can stare at gambling, and in other states there is no permit for such gambling. Me, too. Because there are often questions about what I used to get these messages from. This is the 2014 Customs News. There's an interview with one of the employees who works at a gaming casino and says she doesn't even know who her employer is because they use nicknames, and she doesn't know his name. And he says you can do it overnight... She doesn't give you how much money, but she says it could be a 15-pound bag of $5,000. And you can count what money it is. Dear Member States, so that we have an idea, globally, of what money is about here, I will say that also these Customs News of 2014 report... And here, Minister, good luck. Because it's huge illegal money. That's 102 trillion dollars for the whole world. And when it comes to one resident, it's $1,200. I say globally, per capita. And those messages... I gave the article here. 15... The Customs News showed that as it was calculated... that the permissible number of gambling salons in Poland was 60 thousand. And they calculated that the daily income from one of such gambling games, from such a slot machine in Poland is PLN 10,000 a day. Thus, from their calculations it appears that PLN 200 billion can be extracted annually from Poland. I repeat, 200 billion zlotys. I do not make any amendment, but it also follows from this law, Minister, that we do not specify the duration of the concession, we do not specify for what time economic operators or individuals are authorised, I think it will all be stated in the regulation that a regulation will be issued and that the regulation will state that the concession is granted for such a period and not another time. The truth is, what Minister Janczyk said was that there were 70,000 of these illegal salons with gambling machines, but I asked the question, Minister, about these legal ones. And it was clear that it was legal to have 5 and 10 thousand, and here it was from the article. 15 says there's gonna be 60,000 of them. I, like Senator Silencer, really wish you good luck in sealing this system. I am also in favour of this, Minister, to ban regulations somehow. I don't know how, because here again, human rights will be raised by addicted access to gambling salons, because, as I say, I strongly support... It's right next to me at the gas station. Here you have comforted us that they will only be in the salons There are also those, as I say, one-armed bandits, and I can see some people coming on bikes and leaving all their payouts. So that, Minister, in order to avoid family tragedies, to actually secure all the sick, because in my opinion this is a disease... Not all of you know that Senator Silencer is a world-famous psychiatrist, so he knows what he's saying, because that's where you come in with these one-armed bandits. Minister, my government Mrs. Beata Szydło and I wish you all the best to seal this bill, because we must humbly accept the suggestion of Senator Czerwiński that, however, if there is a possibility without a license of up to 2,000... I can organize, if I find 10 people, a poker tournament, and then it turns out that these 2,000 are huge, really huge money. And as far as I'm concerned, this raises a question: in a country as big as the United States, two states issue such permissions, and with us all the scooters will be able to run their arcades and will be an elderdo all over the world. Because, as I said, Minister, people are going to try illegally... and those 102 trillion dollars This is the customs news that comes out of illegal gambling in the world... I could also ask the question: how else... We need to strengthen customs, IT guys in customs, so that they can really control all of this. I'm not prolonging any more, Minister. I'm not making any amendments, and I wish my government good luck, and so are you. I mean, you're my guy, so how are you gonna do that? I'll be happy to see how you can block these gamblers. And remember one thing. That's the way it is in the mountains. Man is a saint. And look at those addicts, those who steal from their children, they steal from their families, because you know it's just like an alcoholic and a drug addict. You can confirm Senator Locksmith as a psychiatrist. It's a similar disease. If a drug addict doesn't get a cut, he's gonna rob a family if a drunk doesn't have a bottle, a beer, he's gonna sell everything from home and his wife, too. And so is the gambler. Secure all of this so that you can have a gambling problem... Because I also talked about the research of psychologists in this area, Minister, and it was stated that today 28,000 are addicts, and in total there will be 300,000 addicts, after the introduction of our law. I wish it wasn't true. I wish you good luck, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u61	Thank you very much. Let me inform you that the list of speakers has been... [[I still signed up, two words...]] [[Voice from the room: Senator Bierecki.]] Ah, Senator Bierecki. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u62	Mrs. Marshal, in conclusion, short. Indeed, I think that in this House we should very much congratulate Minister Janczyk on the difficulty of preparing this law, that he undertook it, that he had determination, that he would carry out what many were afraid of. What many were afraid of... After all, the environments that are interested in these regulations, which this regulation will affect, described in the speeches of my previous speakers, are very dangerous people. They're very dangerous people. And I am very pleased that this bill will make it harder for such bandits. But congratulating the Minister on his courage, I must remind you that we have been dealing with a government over the past few years that lacked the courage, which agreed to this ruin of a country that did not notice the symptoms of this corruption, the symptoms of this corruption visible to the naked eye. What Senator Silencer described, well, we saw in our districts, voters came to us, talked about what was going on in these gaming halls operating illegally, which are centers of crime spreading. The powerlessness of the state in relation to this type of activity is, after all, the result of previous governments. I don't want to be bullied anymore... I'm not flogging a dead horse, so I don't want to bully the politicians of the Platform who were involved in this gambling scandal, and the people who then adopted regulations that were ineffective consciously, didn't fix these regulations... They should be held accountable, they should be held accountable. So two things. In addition to congratulations to the Minister, the call for the Ministry of Finance to identify those responsible for this enormous scale of omissions, for the budgetary losses we have suffered and for the spread of crime in recent years. Those persons should be identified by name and authority and should be dealt with by name. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u63	Thank you very much. Would any of you like to take the floor in the discussion? I can't see. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. There are no legislative proposals or speeches to the Protocol. I therefore close the discussion, I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held in the voting block. We proceed to the examination of item twenty-seven of the agenda: the Act on the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Poland. The text of the Act is contained in print No 377 and the report of the Commission In print No 377 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Andrzej Stanisławek, to present a report to the committee. You're welcome, Professor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Minister! Yesterday was the meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. The third point was the examination of the Act on the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Poland, Senate printing No 377, seym prints No 1055, 1114 and 1114-A. It was an in-line submission. The President of the Attorney General, Mr Artur Woznicki, presented us with the meaning of the bill, talking about changes of competence, among others. to extend competence to international affairs. He emphasized the traditions of the Attorney General, which, despite only a 10-year period of existence, conveys the traditions of the Second Republic into the present. He said he was building a staff of the Attorney General. As something positive, he pointed out that the entire management of the Attorney General has not changed since its creation, and this, the Attorney General, is the guardian of state property. The Senate legislator had no legislative proposals, there was no discussion, the bill was adopted in its entirety. So that I bring you to the High Senate to announce the attached draft resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u65	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Professor. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of the Treasury was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Welcome to Minister Nicholas Wild. Minister? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Treasury Nicholas Wild: I don't think that's necessary.]] Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Augustine. You're welcome. And the Minister would like to see you in the podium. I'm asking you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u66	Minister, it was difficult to respond to this submission due to a lack of time. However, I would like to hear from you, why, in an appropriate manner, a law of this kind which, according to the assurances of the State and the Head of the Prosecutor's Office, has only its own advantages, is submitted to the Senate. Why can't she wait, can't wait, or can't you introduce her to us before?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u67	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u68	The Act on the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Poland is one of the components of the reform of public property management. The President of the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Poland after 1 January, when we hope that the Law on the Management of the Property of the State Treasury will also enter into force, will exercise some of the competences currently exercised by the Minister of the Treasury. Therefore, the entry into force of the laws on the same day is crucial. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the budget law for the next year no longer provides for the division of the State Treasury, therefore it is not possible to continue the functioning of the Ministry of Treasury. [[Can I ask you a question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u69	Yes, yes, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u70	That's not the answer to my question at all. I understand it's supposed to come in... Or rather, it's just a partial answer, an answer, why you can't wait. But there is no answer to why we receive a law with a very high quality weight in such a way and we have no chance of addressing it in substance. After all, these arguments you're talking about, the ministry has known for months... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Treasury Nicholas Wild: I can...]] I don't get it at all.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u71	I can only assure the senator that this is not due to disrespect for the High House.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u72	Thank you very much. Do you have any more questions for the Minister? No. Minister, thank you very much. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Treasury Nicholas Wild: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. Would any of you like to take the floor in the discussion? I don't see any calls. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. I therefore close the discussion. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the joint examination of items on the twenty-eight and twenty-nineth of the agenda: the Law on the Principles for the Management of State Property; the Law on the Law on the Principles for the Management of State Property. The texts of the laws are contained in prints 378 and 379 and the Commission's reports in prints 378 A and 379 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Andrzej Stanisławek, to present a report to the committee on the Law on the Rules for the Management of State Property and the Law on the Law on the Principles for the Management of State Property. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Minister! Yesterday, a meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation was held, which discussed the Law on State Property Management, Senate Printing No 378, Seym Printing No 1053, 1103, 1103-A, and the Law on State Property Management, Senate Printing No 379, Seym Printing No 1054, 1104, 1104-A. In view of the short time it took to provide documentation from the Sejm to the Senate, a very substantive discussion took place in the committee. The Minister gave us the sense of the amendments proposed in this law. There is no longer a Ministry of the Treasury, and therefore the companies of the Treasury are now under the management of the Prime Minister, who, in turn, I would say, designates the relevant companies of the Treasury to the relevant institutions and ministries. The opposition minority has submitted a minority request not to look at these laws for a very short period of time and the lack of the possibility to deal with this law in substance, but the opposition has taken part in a discussion, a very substantive discussion, for which I thank you very much. It results in numerous legislative and substantive amendments which have been tabled by the committee. There are also amendments to the bill that I would like to make now, because I will not participate in the discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u74	Thank you very much. I ask the minority rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, to present the proposals of the minority of the committee on the Law on the Principles for the Management of State Property and the Law on the Law on the Principles for the Management of State Property. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u75	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! First, Mr. Marshal, I must address you as a representative of the Senate Bureau. I imagined that the role of the marshal was not only to conduct the deliberations, but also to ensure that the senators could fulfil their mandate in this House. It's not... Mr. Marshal, it is unacceptable to present 317 articles to the senators for consideration in such a short time, without the possibility of obtaining the opinion of the Legislative Office, because what was presented was actually discussed only during the sitting, and what needs to be said very quickly. Since this situation is repeated, it concerns the educational laws, it concerns a package of these three laws, two of which are now being considered. This leads to this, we cannot fully and consciously vote on such a serious issue, which concerns the state's assets and the management of them. So I'm asking you, and I'm appealing for us to have... [[Mr. Senator, you're at the point where you report to the committee...]] Yes. [[...so concentrate on it.]] One of the reasons, Mr. Marshal, for which we applied for a minority request, was that we did not have the opportunity to properly examine these laws. And that was the basic reason. So that I speak as much as possible about the subject, Mr. Marshal. That's what we've been talking about here. Who should we address for protection if not the Senate Marshal and the Senate Bureau? [[I'm not a Senate marshal, Senator... but I don't want to discuss it.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] Ladies and gentlemen, of course, this was not the only reason for our request. This bill was born of the necessity to find a mechanism that would allow entities or assets of the State Treasury to be entrusted with a very diverse property, managed by very scattered entities. Of course, governments had a problem with this and in various years they tried to solve it differently. Finally, the Government of the Civic Platform and PSL proposed to set up a separate ministry to deal with and coordinate this. It was different, because Polish Ministry This includes the willingness of each authorising officer to manage his or her assets. Every move was reborn. And if this submission were to go in the direction of strengthening this ministry, its prerogatives, its power over the wealth of the Treasury, we would probably be happy to sign under such regulations. Unfortunately, the government really took a step back. I mean, once again, the management of this property goes to individual resorts. Yes, you're trying to do two things here, and they're some sort of way out, i.e. Trying to introduce some rules, some rules that allow managers to manage this property properly But it must also be said that these are very, very vague rules in many places and generally formulated, which I tried to pay attention to during the committee's meeting. In addition, you are trying to create a coordination centre to be entrusted to the Prime Minister. And, ladies and gentlemen, even at the stage of the committee's work, it was clear that this old idea of managing the property of the State Treasury reveals the same disadvantages that were earlier. An amendment has already been tabled at the committee meeting, which seeks to establish the composition of the Council to coordinate the management of the State Treasury's assets, stating in advance that the leading ministries in this matter will guarantee equal participation with the Prime Minister in this committee. And the previous record said that it was the Prime Minister, in consultation with the resorts concerned, of course, who would appoint people to coordinate themselves. It can already be seen that there is friction within the Council of Ministers, as always. There's already a brawl who's really gonna decide. There are three representatives of the Prime Minister, three representatives of one ministry and three representatives of the other ministry. And what happens if these three representatives of the Ministry join the other three against the Prime Minister? Who will really be responsible for coordination, and who will manage it? You can see the weaknesses of this proposal, which I do not think is quite thought out. There are still a lot of very concrete comments that we have raised and which have encouraged us to protest this project and to apply for rejection. Well, ladies and gentlemen, since the President of the Council of Ministers, who should actually tighten up the management of such extensive assets in resorts, institutions, agencies, etc., is merely seeking to ensure a uniform way of exercising the rights of shares belonging to the Treasury, instead of simply ensuring a uniform way of exercising these rights, how can you believe that this will work? If the weakness of the existing system, despite the existence of the Ministry of Treasury... You'll allow the marshal that Senator Głowski, today's president of the Saw, I'll say hello on purpose because I'm a senator in this town. Mr. President, you're in your room. If in the framework of this coordination... Our weakness has always been, and despite the existence of the Treasury Ministry, sponsorship... Well, legends have been circling and circling about how sports clubs are sponsored by State Treasury companies. And why these and not others. So-called. Corporate social responsibility, subsidising various projects and celebrations by companies of the Treasury All of this is, so to speak, a gray reality. These rules are unclear. And, of course, it would be nice if we could sort this out as part of this coordination. There is even such a provision, except that it is so formulated that, within the framework of this coordination, the President of the Council of Ministers may lay down the rules for dealing with such cases. Maybe, but he doesn't have to. I doubt it will be possible to coordinate this in a transparent manner, since even this council, which is to help the President of the Council of Ministers, will unfortunately be fragmented and the decision-making process will be very distracted. Ladies and gentlemen, we could not get full information on why the list of companies in the Treasury whose shares cannot be disposed of is closed to those listed in the Act. Why aren't there others here, very important? You can say: the decisive "Companies"? It was difficult to find out why the President of the Council of Ministers has a State Treasury company, e.g. on salaries, bonuses and other such important issues Only to seek changes in the statutes, not to carry them out. It's gonna be very difficult. Especially where the Treasury does not have a majority. Finally, we pointed out that this Board of Companies with the State Treasury should be composed of high-quality professionals able to assess the competence of those who will supervise the companies. The idea is to end this current spinal cord, this merry-go-round position and lean on the choice of persons for supervisory boards and management bodies with some clear criteria. Because with bad will, this counsel itself can have members with such high qualifications that they will have a master's degree and legal counsel. So it seems to me that this law, which is of fundamental importance to the economy, for the integrity of the management of property, which belongs to all of us, is not a good proposition. We did not really have the opportunity to work to improve it to the extent possible yet, so we requested that at this stage this proposal be blocked, especially since in the case of the second law, the implementing one, consisting of more than a hundred articles relating to several dozen laws, we could not get a good, satisfactory answer to the question of how local governments, especially the counties very poor financially, are to deal with a number of additional obligations which are imposed on them in connection with the exercise of their task of managing the State Treasury's assets. This seems to be one of the many drawbacks of this submission. Let me remind you that local governments always point out that they shouldn't impose obligations on them without giving money. I asked if we had an opinion on such an important issue, such as the Polish County Association. Those who are to do this should have a chance to speak. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been told that unfortunately, no, because the union was given such a short time limit that they, in protest, refused to submit such an opinion. Unfortunately, we do not have the opportunity to refuse to proceed in such a manner. So what can you do? To report the perceived, you can say, hot and quick doubts and ask for this law not to be adopted, but not because it is not worth it and it is not necessary to regulate the management of state property, just because it needs to be done with great meticulousness. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not read well this bill, which, Minister, we will probably have to deal with some times. I don't think that's a good idea. The example of filling posts in this Council is already showing an intra-ministerial struggle for influence. Thus, it is difficult to read well when it comes to progress in a reliable, correct, in keeping with the interests of citizens in managing such a huge property of the State Treasury. Mr. Marshal, gentlemen of the Senators, let's give ourselves time to work hard, let's give ourselves time to think, let's give ourselves time to analyze the rules. You can't do that! If we agree to this, Mr. Marshal, we won't be needed for anything.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u76	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of you like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. The draft laws were submitted by the government. The Minister of the Treasury was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would a government representative like to take the floor on the laws under consideration and present the government's position? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Patrick Jak: Yes.]] Come on in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u77	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The law we are pursuing today is not only the fulfilment of the electoral promise made by the Law and Justice, it is the inclusion in the legal formula of certain basic assumptions connected with the management of state property. I would like to thank you for your work in committee because I believe that, although, of course, we probably stayed in our positions, there was a chance to listen to ourselves on fundamental issues that actually remain contentious. The first of the main issues is what should be the centralization of the management of the State Treasury property, centralization of the management of state property. What's it like now? We now have a system in which this management is entrusted to the Ministry created for another purpose. It's to sell the assets. It was the Ministry of Property Transformation, whose purpose was to handle privatisation processes. The very structure of this ministry made it impossible to run in the long run, to have effective management of state property. So the first assumption is to find another formula. The fragmentation of the work carried out in the companies of the State Treasury was a fact when the current government assumed power. It didn't happen this year, it was and it was working. This is the reality that we, as designers, had to face. And it must be fair to say that, both behind the system providing for the centralisation of the exercise of the State Treasury's ownership rights and behind the system of decentralised supervision, there are valid arguments. A decentralised surveillance system is adopted e.g. in the Federal Republic of Germany. On the other hand, the OECD directives aim to centralise supervision. We have adopted an option that allows us to benefit from the advantages of both models and to be a beneficiary of them. We have sealed the requirements for property management, but the fact is, at present, in the most important companies of the State Treasury we have rights from shares at the level of 30%. This cannot be done in legal form, we need to act through a corporate law system. In other words, the State, acting as a shareholder, must simply move within the corporate system, change statutes, impose certain obligations not on the companies in which it actually operates... has the actual majority because other shareholders have fractional holdings... The fact that we control PKO, PZU, KGHM, Orlen, it's not because we have most of them. In all these companies the level of shares of the State Treasury is about 30%. However, we have the opportunity to exercise real control, to oblige management to certain activities, to impose certain reporting obligations on management boards. We are able to impose such obligations. They're not here right now. In the current system, the Commercialisation and Privatisation Act provides for certain requirements for companies where the value of the Treasury shareholder exceeds 50%. This state is unacceptable, too many companies elude this regulation. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sure that any work can be done better, but in this respect, the debate at the committee meeting was actually dissatisfied. At least that's the impression I got. - Some starting assumptions. - Mm-hmm. Do we want a system that combines the benefits of centralised and decentralised systems, whether we want to analyze infinity and As it has been so far Do we need to repeat that we need a new system for the management of state property? The system that we have created seals the management of the property of the State Treasury. He's not introducing any new responsibilities. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the obligations which have been codified concerning, inter alia, local government units managing the property of the State Treasury refer to the entry in the perpetual book on the existence of ownership rights of the State Treasury. That's what we're talking about. These obligations existed before, now they are clearly defined. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to point out that the antiquities of the State Treasury's real estate management 'Cause that's what we're talking about. For this reason, they may keep for themselves 1/5 of the revenue that this management brings to them. The capital city of Warsaw itself reaches PLN 100 million for this reason. In such a case, it does not seem appropriate to say that local governments should receive additional benefits from the fact that they manage the wealth of the State Treasury. Ladies and gentlemen, these are laws that significantly contribute to stopping waste and to the absolute fight against pathologies to which the management of the Treasury's assets is exposed. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we are imposing a penalty for the appointment of a non-authorised person to the supervisory board. This is an added value that was not in the previous legal state. In a situation where the person whose powers were questioned could be held up in a public debate and the subject could be put to an end. Criminal consequences will now be incurred for this type of situation. Ladies and gentlemen, I request the adoption of the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u78	Thank you. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to a government representative related to the items on the agenda. Senator Wach's first question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u79	Minister, first let me explain that I have two questions, actually concerning public higher education. The first concerns Article. 19 of this law, paragraph 25, which amends Article. 55a and says that the Minister responsible for construction... etc. may, free of charge, take over to the Treasury the right to property of a State legal person. I mean, I'm talking a lot, but you know what I'm talking about. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Treasury Nicholas Wild: Of course, I know.]] I had signals from the rectors about concern about this record in the context of the autonomy of universities. At the moment, in this version that is here, it is still written: "With its consent." So there's been a change, a change from the point of view of autonomous public universities that is appropriate and probably desirable. If you could explain where it came from and at what stage... That's the first question. The second question is due to ignorance and the fact that there was actually a short period to ask and study it. It concerns There are two paragraphs. If you were in one sentence, in two sentences, to say what their practical meaning is... 2 probably applies to high-value rentals lasting more than 180 days, and this requires consent. But if you were kind in two sentences, explain these regulations in the article. 54 on higher education...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u80	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u81	Ladies and gentlemen! Both regulations are indeed linked to an important element of our reform, i.e. with consolidation of the property management of the State Treasury. Today we are dealing with a situation in which state property, because the property of state legal persons is still a state property, is still a property all of us in the constitutional sense, is an element, a component of the common good... We are currently dealing with a situation in which there may be a case of real estate Let's take it like that. The university or other university is no longer in place and there is a need for investment, and at the same time there is a plot at the disposal of the agency, which, in colloquially speaking, is a loss. The competences we equip the Minister responsible for infrastructure are competences aimed at rationalising the management of state property. It is natural for us that this is done with the consent of state-owned legal persons and therefore, when this was reported at the Seym stage, we, of course, supported this clarification. Thus, in a situation where a State-owned higher education institution, which is a legal entity, will both be a beneficiary and its real estate will have to be separated and another State-owned legal person's consent will be required. Second theme State-owned legal entities, including universities, control over ownership of property. This control is currently in place, under the authority of the Minister of the Treasury. This check occurs when the value of the regulation, when the value of the legal act exceeds EUR 50 000, i.e. PLN 200 000. In the project, we have raised the level at which universities can make regulations free of control. However, since there will no longer be a Minister of the Treasury, from the amount of PLN 2 million we have introduced a control of the President of the Public Prosecutor General. The idea is not to multiply administrative structures. Since, in principle, in the case of the amount of PLN 200 000 to PLN 5 million, the control is carried out by the supervisory authority, in this case the minister responsible for universities, in order not to multiply administrative structures and to avoid the need to appoint a special department with the minister, we decided on the one hand to increase this ceiling and, on the other hand, to introduce a control of the President of the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Poland from a lower amount.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u82	Thank you very much. Do you have any more questions for the senator? Mr. Senator Dobkowski. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u83	Thank you very much. Minister, so far in companies which were created as a result of commercialisation and privatisation of state-owned enterprises, the crew has the right to choose 2 members of the supervisory board and 1 member of the board. Will this rule be maintained or changed as a result of this regulation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u84	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u85	In this respect, the rules remain unchanged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u86	You're welcome to ask questions. [[There's no more.]] I don't see any calls. Minister, thank you very much. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Treasury Nicholas Wild: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Pekkis. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u87	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen! It is not possible not to refer to the statements of the Senator from the opposition, which was deeply emotional, beautifully spoken, but unfortunately without any fixing in reality or with an extremely low attachment in which the same language of reality was used. At the committee meeting, which lasted more than three hours, nearly four hours, each point was carefully analysed. It is interesting that the opposition rejected the possibility of making any comments at the very beginning of the committee meeting for a purely technical reason. That is because she feared that there would be only one of the two opposition representatives reporting a minority request. So, in order to even apply for a minority, they decided to reject all the material at the beginning, before getting to know any material. And that's what they did. I mean, first they rejected, and then, based on the fact that there was one or two people, the very important one, as a fellow Senator from the opposition emphasized here, for them the bill... If she was so important, why weren't they represented at the meeting on this very important bill? But it's just the beginning of all the fuss that a friend was trying to bring in. Because, ladies and gentlemen, there would be no discussion at all if in previous years previous governments had met the goals that were set for them by the nation. As these objectives have been achieved, we know today when, instead of having an economy at any level, we have it in a deplorable state. When we look at the next sectors of the economy, we see that the only aspect of economic surveillance was to get rid of national assets as soon as possible. I'm going to give you a few examples, because I just can't, as a technician, listen to this kind of nonsense that's being said in public here without any consequences. An example of the Rybnik plant. First with state money, a very large amount of funds of the Polish state, it was modernised and then... This is an interesting example, because this is one of the few power plants that owns a mine just under the power plant, there are no means of transport of coal. It was one of the most profitable power plants, there was never a loss. And she was sold to the French after modernization, after bringing technology for Polish money. At a very low price, a power plant was sold, which was a hen bearing golden eggs. Why? No one can answer that until today. Except for the indication of a possible corruption factor. No one can answer why the Polish state sold a prosperous power plant to the French. It takes 9 and 10 years for the French to operate the power plant and to get rid of it, because it would now require modernisation, i.e. cost-bearing. That was the state. This was the case with the Polish economy. Another example: Polish shipyards. What was done with Polish shipyards for German shipyards? Someone in Brussels was right to act on behalf of the German shipyards It is right from the point of view of the Germans: because there are too many shipyards in Europe, perhaps it is better for them to survive ours rather than yours? Someone in Poland listened to them and allowed hundreds of thousands of jobs to be lost. I'm not exaggerating. Someone allowed one of the most responsible industries, one of the most developed of those we had in Poland. Another example: what was done with Polish mines several years ago? Why were mines closed six months after they were upgraded? There are cases, there is a case. The mine, which six months after modernization, after opening new pavements, with all new, modernized equipment was flooded. Who let that happen? Why did you do that? Here's another example... [[Voice from the room: We don't admit it.]] None of you admit it. [[I don't admit it.]] Today we are dealing with a national estate, which in fact has long ceased to be national. What was done with the Polish agricultural processing industry, with Polish sugar factories? I know what was done because I live in Opole, where we no longer have Polish sugar factories, and Polish Sugar is just a little by the Polish name. What was done with a whole bunch of other economies, where basically the whole plan was to sell it? It was the consequence of a complete lack of supervision of the Polish nation over what the elected authority did. Today, the consequence is being introduced. There will be a penalty for choosing people who do not meet the right criteria. Like... None of you have ever planned this before. What we receive from the past is a whole mass of unexplained scandals, where in the end there is always one denominator: the loss of the Polish state. I will remind you that a few years ago there was an attempt to sell the Zakłady Azotowe Kędzierzyn-Koźle. You were planning to sell it as it turned out a year later to Pfleiderer for the annual profit of these bets. If anyone thinks it was different, I'll show you the papers, the papers. You were very close to the implementation of this plan. For a year's worth of betting! And that is the consequence of the fact that so far, unfortunately still so far, it is the fact that the companies are governed by financiers and lawyers, that companies of vital importance to the economy of the nation have not ruled and had no access to governments. 'Cause it was limited. The people who knew each other on a given department of the economy, technicians. In fact, it atones for such a belief that someone who is an economist, a lawyer and has MBA studies, knows everything and can run any establishment, no matter how familiar they are with the specifics and functioning of a particular industry, a particular establishment. The result was that if the bet, as it appeared from the tables, did not bring at a given moment, at a given moment of profit, it was decided, it was said so: well, it does not bring, look, look, it does not bring So sell it. Meanwhile, the economy is much more complicated, because the economy, especially the national economy, serves to achieve the goals of the nation, and not just the achievement of profits and losses, which in the cyclical, global, global economy are a variable, usually about the sineidal course, but not only. It is not possible to proceed as was done, i.e. that if in a given year the department of the economy turned out to be inefficient, then the decision was one: sell. It was: it doesn't pay off, look, it doesn't pay off Polish Sugar. But I have already said it and I will say it again: when Polish Sugar was sold, when Polish sugar was deprived, the price of sugar from month to month jumped by more than 100%. Because it didn't pay off until it was Polish Sugar, and when we got rid of it, it turned out that Western corporations would be worth it, even with an increase of more than 100%. By this method, the Polish economy was sold and destroyed. I am aware of that, and I am speaking to you on the left, who did not have the opportunity to function yesterday at the meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, except for two exceptions, because sometimes there was one master, sometimes there were two When considering this very important, as you said, Senator, a very important law, very important. What's left of it is this very small piece that's left after a big sale of national assets. In most cases for priceless... Today, the effect of this is that the state has neither the money from it nor the economy. And it's your fault. This is the fault of the gentlemen sitting here, on the left side of this room, because for eight years you've ruled the country so that there's not much left. You blew up the Polish railroad. Today, this dismemberment of companies on the Polish railway is so gigantic that 2 companies, which operate connections between cities, cannot correlate... [[Hold on, hold on, hold on, ……]] You'd want me to shut up, I know, Mr. Senator, but I won't shut up. Your colleagues in your government have been doing this for eight years. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u88	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Klein. I'd like to have a voice in the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u89	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We made a motion at the committee meeting to reject the law in its entirety not because it is unnecessary. We believe that such a bill is needed and should be edited. [[That's not true.]] We wanted her to be rejected because of this. It was well-argued by Senator Augustine. That we have received a law that neither we nor colleagues of the Law and Justice have read about it. They didn't know a single point in the bill. That is why Mr Stanisławek said that we will examine the point by point. Because no one knew this bill, not even lawyers. Working even in the way proposed by the president... [[That's not true.]] ...we weren't able to eliminate all the weaknesses of this bill. I read it today, and I've noticed many mistakes that are about to come back to us and we're going to correct this bill. I'm sure it is, 100%. It's one thing. Second thing. There weren't all senators at the committee meeting not because they ignored this bill, even the other way around. Senator Pekkis should know that there were several committee meetings at the same time, where there were exactly the same problems. I brought it up, raised it at the committee meeting. We are going to the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, where further laws are discussed, the day before yesterday passed, with which none of us, neither the opposition nor the government, was able to get acquainted. It's about us senators all the time. And the rulers, and the opposition, were able to familiarize themselves with the provisions of the Act. Senator Pekkis said, like the Minister, that there will finally be order with the supervision of the Treasury companies and the assets of the Treasury. I wish I could, but this bill is being passed just because the state You who are in charge at the moment Previously you disorganized the supervision of companies of the Treasury. They used to be in one hand. This principle has not been introduced by us in the last 8 years, only earlier when the Ministry of the Treasury was created. She was introduced in order to eliminate the situation in which individual ministers treat individual companies as their dominion, within which they can appoint presidents, boards, organize various things. In order to eliminate this, the entire surveillance was introduced into one ministry. Probably it wasn't perfect surveillance, it could be improved and improved. I'm not denying that. And at the moment it was brought to the situation as it was in Poland in the 1980s and in the early 1990s. Throughout the years of free Poland, individual ministers said: give the air company to the minister of transport, the shipbuilding company of the Minister ago, and the mining company of that Minister, etc. The minister kept thinking this way: if I don't have a company, I don't have a company, I don't really have power, and if I have a company, I have someone to appoint to the board of directors, and I can pursue some of my own goals. And with that kind of thinking, all governments in turn have fought for about 20 years, including the government of law and justice in the past. Today, he submitted to these demands of individual ministers. Now the Minister for Development has his own company, the Minister for Mining has his own company, the Minister for Maritime Affairs has his own company. And when all this was dissolved, you had to build a bill that would somehow coordinate it. But notice what's in this bill. That's what Senator Augustine pointed out. A Board shall be set up for seat placements on supervisory boards. Well, it's not a bad idea, but... During the Platform's reign, we considered whether to set up such a board for members of supervisory boards. The idea was that it was supposed to be independent professionals, but the trouble was figuring out how to create it, so... it was about people who would give good feedback to these candidates for the board of directors. And what did you do? The idea we had is degenerate. Yes? Because the members of the supervisory boards are appointed by only two ministers and one prime minister. The absurdity of this solution is that the Prime Minister of the Government of the Republic puts himself on an equal footing with the Minister for Development, which was initially the case, now at the committee meeting we changed that it would be the minister responsible for economic affairs. So today it's the Minister of Development. And here the Senators of Law and Justice lit a lamp that, God forbid, a separate Minister for Economic Affairs will be appointed and will remain such competence, and the Minister for Development, this important minister, will remain and will no longer have these powers. But that's how it was accepted. There's the Minister of Energy. And why isn't there a Minister for Maritime Affairs, a Minister responsible for Culture, who is now under the authority of various institutions. There's the Prime Minister and two ministers. The situation, ladies and gentlemen, is completely absurd, because the Prime Minister of the Government of the Republic is equal in tenders for positions in supervisory boards of companies to the role of minister of one or another, stronger or weaker. It's never supposed to be like this. If this is the case, I ask you, if this is the case, then the situation should be such that the candidates for this Council are notified by individual ministers, appointed by their Prime Minister and are responsible for it. But putting the Prime Minister of the Government of the Republic on an equal footing with ministers means that de facto in this area I don't want to deal with other things. There is no prime minister, they are only equal, who fight among themselves for the separation of positions, i.e. the separation of positions of members of supervisory boards, boards, etc. So that's all Senator Pekkis was talking about, as if in this one record. This whole degeneration, as he said, which was in previous years. It's building up. And you're gonna see it... I no longer want to refer to the various things that Senator Pekkis was talking about concerning the destruction of individual departments of the national economy, because this is not the subject of this law and there is simply nothing to say about it. I always say a little, a little humility, Senator. You know how many mistakes have been made in this short period of time since you've been in charge of the appointment of members of the board of directors. No qualifications, no competences, no other things. In fact, this bill states... Even without the competitions. That's one thing. How many CEOs have already been called off... And, for example, Someone was president for four months and got half a million golden checks. There is already a wage bill, and so on, what we have adopted here according to your intention. So all kinds of diseases, Senator Pekkis, which concern our economy, are not assigned to one formation. I am not saying that everything was perfect with us, but this brief time of your governments also shows many different weaknesses and problems. Let's just make this a start, and then everything's perfect... But I doubt it will. You were talking about destroyed mines. In the election campaign, you announced that not one place in the mining industry would be destroyed. How many mines, how many jobs in mines are scheduled to be destroyed today? There are other things. It's just... And as far as what you said about the shipbuilding industry is concerned, it has nothing to do with reality anymore. That's why sometimes it's worth coming over and asking: maybe you know a little bit about the shipbuilding industry and you want to say something, say if that's what it is, or if I'm not going to tell some stupid things here, because then somebody's going to read it... [[Everyone's right.]] So that's why all these conclusions... [[You have yours, and he's right.]] ...and our motion to reject this bill. I am convinced that, unfortunately, this bill will come back in a moment, because there are very many mistakes in it, really. And that's why the general proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u90	Thank you very much. Senator Flork's discussion, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u91	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm not a member of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, I didn't read the bill, I didn't get to know it, but after Senator Pekkis's speech, I have to take the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, this procedure, which is in the Senate, forces us to become unprepared here. The bill that was passed last night comes to the Senate in the morning and today we are discussing it. I read the education bill a little bit, those 431 pages. And here I repeat my request for quick reading courses, because if you continue to proceed in this way, we really will not be able to comment on important important laws. Mr. Senator Pekkis... We work together in the Committee on Infrastructure, but I am surprised to hear from you, which is why I want to say a few sentences to you. I do not know if you forgot, but in 1989, 1990 there was a change in the socialist, prescriptive and resolving economy in Poland. Now it's the market economy. The market economy is that what you're going to produce, you're going to do, you're going to have to sell. And so there's nothing that's been going on, which means that if I say so, there's something for the magazine, something for the magazine, something for the magazine, and so on. We live in a market economy and therefore businesses have to earn their own money. Senator, you have to remember people, you have to remember companies, you have to ease it if possible, but the changes were necessary and necessary. As a Greater Poland voivode, I privatized about - at the moment I don't know how much. 30 companies. There were also situations when companies were liquidated. Of course, I took these actions with caution, taking into account workplaces, etc. And somehow we managed to do all this efficiently, because of privatisation there were no comments or noise or problems. There are big companies, there are big companies that privatize. The less countries in the economy, the better There are no supervisory boards, there are no presidents, there is no peace of mind. The economy should function as it is all over the world, i.e. separately. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please!]] You are beginning to yearn for as many companies as possible to fill as many jobs as possible. I'm not gonna talk about it. Mr. Senator Kleina He has already made it clear and explained how these mechanisms work. Mr. Senator, it's never like something is either completely white or completely black. There are colors, there are people, it's all to be considered. It is not as simple as you said: you have destroyed, you are to blame, you are to blame for everything. That's not what happened. We, taking into account privatisation and at every level at which we did it, were paying particular attention to people. And the fact that at the moment the economy is different, that there is a market economy, please take note. You can't pay someone for free. You said you promised you wouldn't destroy... I will not repeat all this again, because you will face it again and again... But how many times can you repeat how many times you can say in this House: this is your fault. You've been in charge for over a year now, so do your own work and do what's important, and don't complain about what others have done. The minister, when she was talking about education today, she was saying... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, gentlemen of the Senators, please.]] ...what Minister Handke did, etc. Gentlemen, cut it out. Show me what you can do, and that's it. And what you can do is we can see, we can read about it in the papers, and so on. Please, Senator Pekkis, so that you do not say such sentences here in the Senate that it is our fault that everything has been broken and that you have fallen from the sky and saved all the workers, all the people in Poland, because now it will be a country flowing honey. [[That's how it's gonna be.]] Mr. Senator, we'll be... [[A voice from the room: so be it.]] ...states to account for all this. Like I said, it's a great thing that there's a technique right now that all of our meetings are being recorded and you can get back to them. I promise you that every moment I will point out your mistakes and how you act, how you pass the law. The bill comes at night, we process it in the morning, doesn't even have a legal opinion, and we do. We could tell you a lot here, but you, Senator Pekkis, this time you overreacted, this time in your... If you want to speak that language, that's how we'll respond to you. If you want to make use of such a language here in this room, then... be sure that if you do, we won't be quiet, but we will point out a lot of things to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u92	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. Are there speeches for protocol? There isn't. I would like to inform you that you have tabled legislative proposals in writing by Senator Marek Martynowski, Senator Andrzej Stanisławek and Senator Adam Gawada. Did I miss someone? No. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Treasury Nicholas Wild: No, thank you.]] Thank you very much. As proposals of a legislative nature have been submitted to the Law on the Principles for the Management of State Property and to the Law on the Rules for the Management of State Property, I ask the Committee on National Economy and Innovation to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on the laws under consideration will be held in the voting block. Mr. and Mrs. Senators, I suggest you complete the order with points... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. ...The Law amending the Finance Act for 2016 and considering it as item 30 of the agenda; and the Act amending the Law on Specific Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2016 and considering it as item 30 of the first agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I believe that the High House has accepted the proposal. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] There's no objection. Thank you very much. In the absence of any votes against, I state that the Senate has accepted the proposals submitted. We proceed with the examination of item 30 of the agenda: the Law amending the Budget Act for 2016. The text of the Act is contained in print No 390 and the report of the Commission In print No 390 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Tadeusz Romanczuk, to submit a report to the committee. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Once again, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u93	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Today was the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. The Commission relied on the two laws mentioned by the Marshal, namely the Act on the amendment of the Finance Act for 2016 adopted by the Sejm on 15 December 2016 and at today's meeting, the Committee on Budget and Public Finance prepared a draft resolution of the Senate and proposes: The High Senate will approve the attached draft. The Commission also relied on the Law on amending the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2016 and after considering the Act at its meeting it asks: The High Senate to adopt the attached draft resolution. A brief discussion took place at the meeting of this committee. Three questions have been asked. The senators' questions have been answered. The draft resolutions were put to the vote and . with 1 abstention It's a positive opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u94	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to stop for a moment. Mr. Senator, we can't process these points together. So, unfortunately, we have to separate it... [[It seems that they could be proceded because they are integrally linked to one another. But of course these are two separate reports, so that there is no problem.]] I mean, I'd love to go along with it, too, but the legislators are telling me here that these are two separate reports. I don't want us to get into any procedural conflicts, so let's stick to the script. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[Voice from the room: No.]] No. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Development and Finance has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Hello, Minister Hanna Majszczyk. Would the Minister like to speak? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Hanna Majszczyk: Yes]] Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u95	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The draft 2016 budget update was prepared in connection with the opportunities for a more flexible use of the financial resources planned in 2016 for the objectives set out in the Budget Act at the end of this year. In the course of the implementation of the budget, it has become apparent that savings are being made in some of the authorising officers and that these measures are being blocked and that, therefore, they can be used for other purposes. And that is the purpose of this new 2016 budget. We allow the Minister of Finance to create a special reserve and, as has been said here, to spend these funds in three areas: the purchase of cultural goods, including monuments, and the rights to cultural goods, the purchase of goods for the Material Reserve Agency or in the form of grants for the Fund for the Restructuring of Entrepreneurs. All the funds spent for these purposes would be mobilised by the Minister of Finance after the creation of the special reserve, depending, of course, on the financial possibilities and how many of these blockades will be available. Well, of course, these measures must also be rationally managed so that they are issued with due care. We have to take care of public funds. During the discussion on this law, questions were raised as to why it was prepared so late. It is precisely because these are measures that were not previously planned for these purposes. The draft budget includes expenditure which represents a maximum limit and savings always appear at the end of the year, when the dispatchers of individual parts after the tendering procedures already have information on whether the appropriations that have been allocated by the High House in the 2016 budget have been allocated in excess Not because they were badly planned, but because of the cost-effective and rational management of these measures and the concrete savings resulting from their activities. This is why this proposal was made to deal flexibly with these measures and to spend them on other needs related to the achievement of other objectives of the State.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u96	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to warmly welcome the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, Minister Jarosław Sellin, and the Secretary of State in the Ministry of the Treasury, Mr Maciej Małecki. Do the ministers want to speak? No. Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute of question to government representatives related to this item on the agenda. Senator Fedorovich, ask me a question. Are you addressing the Minister or...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u97	To the Minister, but perhaps to Minister Sellin. Can you hear me? [[Voice from the room: Very good.]] [[Voice from the room: You can hear it.]] I'm sorry, but... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] I can't be happy with the fact that I'm asking you to answer the question of whether this budget bill has anything to do with the information I received. Information about the purchase of the Czartoryski collection. Is the Minister at least partially aware of this matter? I've been informed that these are the funds for the possible purchase of the Czartoryski collections. Tell me what it looks like right now. Well, if the head of the Senate's cultural committee learns about it from the media just before the vote, I think that's a problem. I'd like to ask you to explain this. If the Minister doesn't want to or can't do it, I'll ask Minister Sellin to do it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u98	Thank you very much, Senator. Are you going to answer the Minister or are you going to answer the Minister? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Hanna Majszczyk: On this point, I would ask Minister Sellin for an answer.]] Come on in, Minister. Mr. Senator, please turn on the microphone if you're asking questions. [[The Minister and the Marshal heard me without a microphone.]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u99	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Senator Fedorowicz specifically asked about the collection of Princes of Czartoryski, and I know that he knows the subject well because he is a Senator from Krakow. The bill we have submitted states that this reserve is created to finance the purchase of cultural goods, including monuments, and the rights to cultural objects of particular importance for the Polish state and cultural heritage. And I can confirm that among others. The point is to sort out the ownership status of this extremely valuable collection. Already months ago, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Culture Piotr Gliński announced actions aimed at permanent regulation of the status of this collection. However, decisions on this matter require common arrangements with the founder, that is, the private owner of this collection, i.e. Prince Czartoryski and the Foundation of the Princes of Czartoryski. Our intention is to develop a solution that will allow adequate care of this collection and will allow it to be kept in Poland for future generations. Ladies and gentlemen, this matter is extremely important, because it is the most valuable collection, which is located on the territory of the Republic of Poland, a collection of compact works of art, created for 200 years by the family, a specific family of Czartoryski with such intention... She was created 200 years ago to serve the nation, to serve the Polish state At that time, under the partitions, with the dream that one day this country will be independent and will be able to benefit from this acquis. However, the matter of this collection is not regulated as it should be, i.e. it is not simply the property of the state and the Polish nation. Therefore, there was a chance that it would be regulated so that it would be the property of the nation and the Polish state. Why don't I tell the senators a few words about the value of this collection. Well, we're talking about a collection of 180 thousand inventory items, in which there are almost 600 very valuable paintings, in which there are over 3,000 200 outstanding works of art crafts, in which there are over 1,000 500 works of ancient art collated by this family. They are also involved in fixed objects, because we say who knows Kraków, they know these places. It is about the Czartoryski Palace, about the Monastery, about Arsenal, it is one, rather compact, in one place located complex. And that's all there is to it when it comes to these negotiations that we're doing right now. When it comes to the value of this collection, it is impossible to estimate it. Because one of these nearly 600 paintings, the most famous one in the territory of the Republic of Poland, Leonardo da Vinci's painting, the lady with the weasel or the lady with the group, the experts argue what kind of animal this lady holds in her hands... Only his insurance, when this painting goes abroad, insurance, not the value of the image, because no one can estimate it, is PLN 1 billion 400 million. Another famous painting, Rembrandt's painting, Landscape with Merciful Samaritan, insurance is PLN 160 million. And we're talking 600 paintings. Of course, others are less valuable, but they are also precious. And, ladies and gentlemen, we are at a delicate moment. We're at a delicate moment, so we can't talk about any amounts, we can't just talk about them for negotiating reasons. So if you'll excuse me, I'm not in a position to give you that information. But among other things. The aim of creating this reserve, which you are debating today, is to give us the opportunity to finally regulate the status of this collection and to know for sure that this collection is owned by the Polish nation and state. [[I'd like to ask.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u100	You're welcome, of course, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u101	Minister, thank you, of course, for the explanation. Of course, I expected you to be perfectly prepared for this, because we have been moving well in these materials for a long time. Except, of course, it would be extremely important for Poland to own it. But explain how... Well, I'm overlooking the fact that maybe they shouldn't have seen the light of day about these negotiations if they're being conducted, because it's very delicate matter. Until now, the Lady of the Czartoryski Foundation has also been exported abroad, but in principle the public is as if it is aware that these works belong to Poland. They can't be brought out of Poland. They belong to Poland, even though they are owned by the Czartoryski Foundation. Do you have a minister... could you show me how Can we get such serious resources? I would be proud if Poland were so wealthy as to buy back a painting from a private collection whose own insurance is PLN 1 billion 400 million... [[This is the value of the image for insurance.]] Right. [[And not the value itself...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u102	Mr. Senator, we... Of course, this collection even today, in this legal status as it is today, is protected by the Polish State and completely without the influence of the Polish State on... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[You're right about that.]] [[I'm always right.]] Without the influence of the Polish state on... [[Quiet, please.]] ...Well, you can't do anything with this collection. However, you probably remember very well that, for example. the rent of this painting and its travels around the world were very controversial, because here the state did not have much to say. The private owner decided that this painting travels, that he earns money to repair buildings, e.g. through such driving around the world, and he had the right to do so, but there were fears, there were controversies, there were great public discussions on this issue, whether it is appropriate, whether it is simply dangerous. This is because this collection, this great collection, has private status today, is the vast majority of individual inventory items of this collection there is no inventory entry, such a protective entry, or there is no entry in the register of monuments, so it can be said that in theory this collection can be dispersed. You can disperse this collection by selling individual parts of it. A private owner can always find a way to do such things. I haven't heard of plans like this, but it's got to be taken care of. In my opinion, it is better that such a valuable collection, created for 200 years, with the intention of the founders, is really already 100% the property of the nation and the Polish state, and that is what we are going to do. [[One last question, if you don't mind...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u103	Yes, yes, of course. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u104	It's just that yesterday... I am not healthy, but I have read on the Internet that the Members of the opposition, all, in agreement, were against this revision of the budget related to this particular circumstance, the extent to which the Minister is talking. From what I've read, there's some suspicion from the opposition that because it's not going to happen this financial year or the next year that this money is just... this situation is just supposed to be a protection, a cover for this budget reserve. Is that true? Because if the purpose of Poland is to buy and own the collection, then everyone should vote in favour. Me first. We've got the money. We have a collection.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u105	So this is the vote I'm asking for and I'm asking for, because, contrary to what the senator says, there's a chance that we'll be able to do it. I don't know when, but I can say this quickly. I understand the opposition objections I heard in the Seym yesterday. They were mainly due to the fact that we did not give specific amounts. But please understand that giving specific amounts is information. Also for the other side. [[Negotiation.]] And that's why we don't do it because we want it to be beneficial from our point of view. [[Thank you. I'm sorry. Throat.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u106	No, of course not. Minister, if I may ask a question... What will happen if, as I assume, we adopt this law unanimously in the Senate and the funds are not issued within the expected time? What happens to them then?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u107	Here, Minister Majszczyk is already a major specialist in this matter... If this were the case, I couldn't answer the question as to how the fate of such a reserve at the end of the year would be dealt with... [[There's no problem with the budget.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u108	Of course, the funds go back to the state budget.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u109	And I understand that it will be clear and visible all the time, and nothing else will happen here with these measures. So I think the intention is very, very valuable or even priceless because of the value of the collection. I would like to ask you questions for the ministers. I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Jarosław Sellin: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. Would any of you like to take the floor in the discussion? I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 30 of the first agenda: the Law amending the Law on Specific Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2016. The text of the Act is contained in print No 391 and the report of the Commission In print No 391 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Tadeusz Romanczuk, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u110	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I'm gonna say it again because I did it a little early, but for the procedure to be done, I'll say it again. Here is the report of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance on the Law amending the Law on Specific Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2016. Following a review of the Act at its meeting on 16 December 2016, the committee asks the High Senate to adopt the Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u111	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of you like to ask a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Development and Finance has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would any of your ministers like to speak on this matter? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Hanna Majszczyk: Thank you very much.]] Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Do any of you have any such questions? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. Would any of you like to take the floor in the discussion? No. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. I therefore close the discussion. And I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held in the voting block in about an hour, I hope. Messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u112	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. First communiqué. The meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the examination of requests submitted to the Law on the Principles of State Property Management, Printing No 378, and to the Act on the Principles for the Management of State Property will be held today, immediately after the announcement of a break in session, in room 307, at the end of the corridor of the Senate committees. And the second message. The joint meeting of the Scientific, Education and Sports Committee and the Committee on Local Government and State Administration on the examination of the proposals submitted during the debate to the Education Law and the Law
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u113	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that we will be able to meet committee meetings and documents within the hour. Therefore, I am announcing a recess until 2.05 p.m., while informing you that if the committee's meetings were to be extended, we will extend this recess for a moment. Time-out to 14.05. Then the vote. [[Adjournment from 13 minutes 03 to 14 minutes 01]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u114	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm extending the recess until 2.30 p.m. [[Adjournment from 14 minutes 01 to 14 minutes 29]] Ladies and gentlemen, I will resume the session. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Shh.]] Silence has already taken place in the courtroom. We return to the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Command of the Supreme Allied Allied Commander of Transformation and the Supreme Command of Allied Forces in Europe supplementing the Protocol on the status of international military commanders established under the North Atlantic Treaty, signed in Warsaw on 9 July 2016. The Committee on National Defence and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 362 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 86 senators voted, 86 votes against, no votes against, no abstentions either. [[Voting No 49]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Command of the Supreme Allied Allied Commander of Transformation and the Supreme Command of Allied Forces in Europe supplementing the Protocol on the status of international military commanders established under the North Atlantic Treaty, signed in Warsaw on 9 July 2016. Thank you. We return to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Act on the ratification of the Protocol amending the Agreement on multilateral settlements in transfer rubles and on the creation of the International Bank for Economic Cooperation of 22 October 1963, as amended by the Protocols of 18 December 1970 and 23 November 1977, as well as the Statute of that Bank, as amended by the Protocols of 18 December 1970 and 23 November 1977, drawn up in Moscow on 18 December 1990. The Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 349 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 88 senators voted, 88 votes against, no votes against, no abstentions either. [[Voting No 50]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on the ratification of the Protocol on the revision of the Agreement on multilateral settlements in transfer rubles and on the creation of the International Bank for Economic Cooperation of 22 October 1963, as amended by the Protocols of 18 December 1970 and 23 November 1977, as well as the Statute of that Bank, as amended by the Protocols of 18 December 1970 and 23 November 1977, drawn up in Moscow on 18 December 1990. Thank you. We would like to refer to item 11 of the agenda: the Act on ratification of the Protocol amending the Agreement on the Establishment and Activity of the International Bank of Economic Cooperation of 22 October 1963, as amended by the Protocols of 18 December 1970, 23 November 1977 and 18 December 1990, and the Statute of the International Bank of Economic Cooperation, as amended by the Protocols of 18 December 1970, 23 November 1977 and 18 December 1990 drawn up at Warsaw on 25 November 2014. The Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 350 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 88 senators voted, 88 voted in favour, no one voted against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 51]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on ratification of the Protocol amending the Agreement on the Establishment and Activity of the International Bank of Economic Cooperation of 22 October 1963, as amended by the Protocols of 18 December 1970, 23 November 1977 and 18 December 1990, and the Statute of the International Bank of Economic Cooperation, as amended by the Protocols of 18 December 1970, 23 November 1977 and 18 December 1990 drawn up at Warsaw on 25 November 2014. Thank you. We return to the examination of the 20th agenda item: the Law amending the Prison Service Act and some other laws. The session was interrupted by a meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is in print No 380 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Rafał Ambrozik, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u115	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions has examined the proposals put forward in the course of the debate on this item on the agenda. The Commission recommends that the law be adopted without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u116	Thank you very much, Senator. Does Senator Jan Rulewski still want to speak? [[No.]] Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments, and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendment tabled. We are voting on the motion of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, supported by the committee, to adopt a law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 88 senators voted, 58 were in favour, 30 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 52]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Prison Service Act and some other laws. Thank you very much. We return to the examination of item twenty of the first agenda: the Law on the establishment of the Prison Service Modernization Programme in the years 2017 and 2020. The session was interrupted by a meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is in print No 381 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Rafał Ambrozik, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u117	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions has examined the proposals submitted for the contested law. The proposals were not supported by the committee. The Commission recommends that the law be adopted without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u118	Thank you very much. Does Senator Jan Rulewski still want to speak? [[No.]] Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We are voting on the motion of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, supported by the committee, to adopt a law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 88 senators voted, 58 were in favour, 30 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 53]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law establishing the "Programme for the modernisation of the Prison Service" in the years 2017 to 2020. Thank you. We are returning to the examination of item twenty-second of the agenda: the Law on the Establishment of the Police Modernization Programme, the Border Guard, the State Fire Department and the Government Protection Office in the years 2017-2020. The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions presented a draft resolution in which it proposed the adoption of this law without amendments, Senate printing No 382 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 88 senators voted, 88 votes in favour, no one opposed, no one abstained. [[Voting No 54]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law establishing the Police Modernization Programme, the Border Guard, the State Fire Department and the Government Protection Office in the years 2017 Thank you. We return to the examination of item twenty-third of the agenda: the Act amending the Accounting Act. The Committee on Budget and Public Finance presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments, Senate printing No 383 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 88 senators voted, 88 in favour, no one opposed, no one abstained. [[Voting No 55]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Accounting Act. Thank you. We are returning to the examination of item twenty-four of the agenda: the Law of the Education Law. The session was interrupted by a meeting of the Scientific, Education and Sport Committee and of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject. It is in print No 375 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u119	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Science, Education and Sport at its meeting today examined the proposals made in the course of the debate on 15 and 16 December 2016 on the Education Law and presented to the High Senate a proposal to adopt a law without amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u120	Thank you very much. I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Joint Committee, Senator Piotr Flork, to present a proposal supported by a minority of the Joint Committees. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u121	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We maintained the motion to reject both the Education Law and the Introductory Law in its entirety. We learned during the debate that the predecessors did everything wrong, that you know best what needs to be done and how better, given the student's well-being. Minister Anna Zalewska gave us texts here today that we already know. She moved the order a little bit, as I noticed, without bringing anything into what we all knew. She also pointed out that it doesn't really change anything about the school network. Because in the same building you can continue to study, middle school can be changed to high school or possibly to primary schools Actually, this change doesn't bring anything. Therefore, the question is: why is this reform at all, how does this change bring nothing? The Minister was talking about vocational schools, and now it's called industry schools, and she was talking about how it was supposed to look, and she gave an example of cooperation in Mercedes. I am sending the Minister back to Swarzędziz, where Volkswagen and I have already signed these agreements, where everyone has a job. Minister for Nothing. The new one didn't find out because it's all known to us. [[Mr. Senator.]] The motion for rejection is justified. I have a right to justify it, right? [[Yes.]] [[Voice from the room: This is not a discussion.]] And now, ladies and gentlemen, as far as our bill is concerned, as I said, there were 421 pages and we had the time we had. Ladies and gentlemen, this has never happened before. What do I mean? First of all, about the legal opinion of this law, ours, the Senator's, because of course there was also an opinion in the Sejm, but we look at our opinion. It was the shortest opinion that I know of the law, which is incompatible with §2 of the principles of legislative technique, does not meet the requirement by means of adopted construction. Of course, this is just, as you know, an opinion. Therefore, there is no reason... to vote in favour of the bill, because it is only an opinion. Now in the explanatory memorandum, I will present the role of the voivode, the role of the guardian of education, and what this change is about. It is the voivodship and the school curator who will be able to dictate the conditions, because the school curator will decide on the school network. What's she gonna look like? Without consent, there's no way. So, if he wants a small school to be, it will be; the subsidy will be what it will be, because it will not change; and you in local governments do well, spend money on building maintenance, etc., etc. That's just the part. The educational part of the general subsidy is divided into all. Of course, now is the question of how this network of schools will look. On March 31st, there will be a moment when we will all hear what it looks like, what the tensions are in the individual municipalities related to this situation that you will create. If that's what you want, that's good, then we're all going through these protests, what's going to happen. There's one more point... [[Mr. Senator...]] I'm almost done. [[Mr. Senator, please finish...]] That's why I'm here. [[...because for the Senator rapporteur there is a certain time in the debate, in the discussion, and now there is only a brief justification. So if you'll excuse me, we're in the middle of a vote, Mr. Senator.]] [[My compliments to the senator.]] [[Applause]] Good. Just one more point for middle school. Before us is the century of an independent Polish state, as well as another important century The anniversary of the outbreak of the Greater Poland Uprising. Here I address the secondary schools in High, Worm, Konojad. The flags you have right now in your schools... You know, we're gonna have to do something about these flags because these schools aren't gonna be there anymore. [[Mr. Senator...]] I don't want to repeat those words you already know from TV. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, you can still prevent this senseless... [[Speech.]] ...a cost-effective change. Support our motion, vote against it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u122	Thank you, Senator rapporteur. Does Senator Piotr Wach still want to speak? No. Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the law and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. The vote on the amendments tabled will be held if the previous proposals are rejected. We proceed with the vote on the motion of the minority committee to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 88 senators voted, 29 for, 59 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 56]] In view of the results of the vote, the Senate has taken... [[Voices from the room: No, no, no.]] [[The Senate rejected the motion, Mrs. Marshal.]] With the motion denied... wait, wait, wait... [[Now, a motion to accept without amendment.]] Yeah, yeah, it's now... [[Voice from the Chamber: We have not accepted this proposal. Now it's...]] Wait a minute, wait a minute. In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the law, we are voting on the motion of the committee, supported by the joint committees, to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 88 senators voted, 56 for, 32 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 57]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law Thank you very much. We are returning to the examination of item twenty-fifth of the agenda: the law introducing the law of education law. The session was interrupted by a meeting of the Scientific, Education and Sport Committee and of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject. It is in print No 376 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u123	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Senate! The Committee on Local Government and State Administration, together with the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, at its meeting today examined the proposals made in the course of the debate on 15 and 16 December on the Law Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u124	Thank you very much. I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the joint committee, Senator Piotr Flork... [[Again.]] [[Applause]] [[Thank you, Warehouse.]] ...to submit a proposal supported by a minority of joint committees. Please, Senator, please submit a minority motion.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u125	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I accept your comments, Mrs. Marshal, so it will be very brief. [[Please.]] Ladies and gentlemen, senators, you can prevent this bill. It's pointless... [[Voice from the room: Stupid.]] ...expendable. You can vote against this law and you can prevent these trips that will take place at your offices after the adoption of this law • if not tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, if not Monday, then in the following weeks, and certainly before March 31st. You can prevent this from happening. We have an easy task, because we're only gonna direct it to you. But if you don't want it, then you have a chance to vote on it right now and support our proposal. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u126	Thank you very much. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? Senator Bogdan Borusewicz and Senator Piotr Wach submitted their conclusions during the discussion. I don't see any calls. Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the law and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. The vote on the amendments tabled will be held if the previous proposals are rejected. We proceed with the vote on the motion of the minority committee to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 87 senators voted, 30 were in favour, 57 against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 58]] In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the law, we are voting on the motion of the committee, supported by the joint committees, to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 senators voted, 54 were in favour, 29 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 59]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law of Thank you very much. We return to the examination of item twenty-six of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Gambling and some other laws. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senate printing No 389 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 88 senators voted, 81 were in favour, 4 against, 3 abstained. [[Voting No 60]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Gambling and some other laws. We return to the examination of item twenty-seven of the agenda: the Act on the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Poland. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without any amendments to the Senate print No 377 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 87 senators voted, 57 were in favour, 30 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 61]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Poland. Thank you. We are returning to the examination of item twenty-eighth of the agenda: the Law on the Principles for the Management of State Property. A meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is in the printing of 378 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Andrzej Stanisławek, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u127	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! At its meeting on 16 December, the Commission considered the proposals submitted in the course of the debate on the Law on the Principles for the Management of State Property and presented the following position to the High Senate: The High Senate should accept the proposals set out in points 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u128	Thank you very much. Do Senator Marek Martynowski or Senator Rapporteur Mieczysław Augustyn still want to speak? No. Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to reject the law and then, if the proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We are voting on the motion for a minority of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation to reject the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 88 senators voted, 30 were in favour, 58 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 62]] In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the law, we are voting on the amendments tabled. Amendment 1 aims to make it compulsory for the President of the Council of Ministers to lay down the principles of ownership supervision and good practices which the Treasury is guided by as shareholder. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 88 senators voted, 30 were in favour, 57 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 63]] The Senate has rejected the amendment. Amendments 2 and 5 aim to ensure that a candidate for a member of the supervisory authority and a candidate for a member of the management body may also be a person who does not have a master's degree or an equivalent degree but has a higher education. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please state the results of the vote. 88 senators voted, 59 for, 29 against. [[Voting No 64]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 3 aims to ensure that a candidate for a member of the supervisory body can also be a person with a PhD degree in technical sciences. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. [[Talking in the O.R.]] 88 senators voted, 87 votes against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 65]] I state that the amendment has been accepted. Amendment 4 eliminates language error. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 88 senators voted in favour, 88 votes in favour. [[Voting No 66]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 5 has already been voted in conjunction with Amendment 2. Amendment 6 aims to ensure that the request addressed to the Board of Companies with the participation of the State Treasury and State-owned legal persons is accompanied by a single statement by a candidate for a member of the supervisory body on knowledge, skills and experience and a single statement on the functions performed in other bodies. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 88 senators voted, 87 votes against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 67]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 7 amends the appointing authority and dismisses the members of the Board of Companies with the participation of the State Treasury and State legal persons. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 88 senators voted, 59 for, 29 against. [[Voting No 68]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 8 aims to ensure that the provision annuls the legal act relating to a fixed asset and does not annul the acquisition of such assets. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 88 senators voted, 87 votes against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 69]] The amendment was accepted. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 88 senators voted, 57 for, 31 against. [[Voting No 70]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on State Property Management. We would like to return to the examination of item twenty-nine of the agenda: the Law on the Law on the Governance of State Property. The meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation was adjourned, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter; it is in print No 379 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Mr Andrzej Stanisławek, to present a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u129	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Commission, at its meeting on 16 December, considered the proposals submitted during the debate on the Law on State Property Management and presented the following position to the High Senate: The High Senate would like to accept the proposals set out in point II (1).16. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it.]] [[Vote together.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u130	Thank you very much. Do the senators of the applicant or the other Senator rapporteur, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, still want to speak? You have reached conclusions during the discussion from Senator Andrzej Stanisławek, Senator Adam Gawada and Senator Marek Martynowski. [[Mrs. Marshal...]] Yes, Senator?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u131	Mrs. Marshal, I'm here on a formal matter. At the committee meeting, there was agreement to vote in total on amendments 1 and 6, 8 and 14. [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] [[Voices from the room: In total.]] If your marshal were so kind and asked the House for permission...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-senat-32-4.u132	Okay, okay. Is anyone against it? No. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to reject the law and then, if the proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We are voting on the motion for a minority of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation to reject the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 85 senators voted, 29 votes against, 56 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 71]] In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the law, we are voting on the amendments tabled. Ladies and gentlemen, Amendment 1 is expanding... [[Voices from the room: In total.]] [[Voice from the room: No need...]] Isn't that necessary? Oh, good. Amendments 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 are voted on... [[Voices from the room:...8.11...]] ...numbers 8 and 11 and 14... okay. We are voting on Amendments 1 and 6, 8 and 14. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 86 senators voted, 86 votes for, no one opposed, no one abstained. [[Voting No 72]] I state that the amendments have been accepted. We proceed with the vote on Amendment 7. Amendment 7 takes into account that the Budgetary Act will determine the expected amount of revenue generated in exchange for the disposal of shares or shares of industrial companies of defence potential and not the amount of income from privatisation of such companies. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 87 senators voted in favour, 87 in favour, no one opposed, no one abstained. [[Voting No 73]] Thank you. The Senate has accepted the amendment. Amendment 12 adds the missing indication of the provision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 87 senators voted in favour, 87 in favour, no one opposed, no one abstained. [[Voting No 74]] I state that the Senate has accepted the amendment. Amendments 13 and 15 seek to define a new procedure for the appointment of members of the Council of the International Solidarity Foundation and for the appointment and dismissal of the President of the Management Board of that Foundation. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 86 senators, 60 for, 1 against, 25 abstentions. [[Voting No 75]] I state that the Senate has accepted the amendment. Amendment 16 adds the missing provision for the creation of a Board of Companies with the State Treasury. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 87 senators voted in favour, 87 in favour, no one opposed, no one abstained. [[Voting No 76]] The amendment was accepted. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 87 senators voted, 58 votes against, 28 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 77]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law on the introduction of a law on the rules governing the management of state property. Thank you very much. We are returning to the examination of item 30 of the agenda: the Law amending the Budget Act for 2016. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances presented a draft resolution in which it requested that this law be adopted without amendment. It is contained in Senate print No 390 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. [[Voice from the hall: I can go home now.]] 84 senators voted, 83 votes, no one opposed, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 78]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Budget Act for 2016. We return to the examination of item 30 of the first agenda: the Law amending the Law on Specific Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2016. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances presented a draft resolution in which it requested that this law be adopted without amendment. It is contained in Senate print No 391 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 81 senators voted, all of them. Okay, okay, [[Voting No 79]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2016. I'm calling a recess until Tuesday, 11:00 p.m. On Tuesday, December 20th, we resume the session at 11:00 p.m. Thank you. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 15 minutes 06]]
