ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u1	I open the twenty-second sitting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I appoint Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski and Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk to be the secretaries of the sitting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] Yesterday, on July 5, Andrzej Grzyb, Senator of the VII and VIII term, member of the Committee on Culture and Media, the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on the Environment, died. Please rise and celebrate with a minute of silence the memory of Senator Andrzej Grzyb. [[Everybody up.]] [[A moment of silence]] [[Give him eternal rest, Lord.]] [[Voices from the hall: And let eternal light shine upon him.]] [[May he rest in eternal peace.]] [[Voices from the room: Amen.]] Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that at its 20th meeting on 22 June 2016, the Sejm adopted all the amendments of the Senate to the Act amending the Law on Research Institutes, to the Act amending the Law on Hunting Law, to the Act amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources and to certain other laws, to the Act amending the Law on Labour Code and some other laws. In addition, the Sejm adopted the majority of the amendments tabled by the Senate to the Law amending the Law on Public Procurement and certain other laws. In the absence of any objections to the minutes of the 18th meeting, I declare that the minutes of this meeting have been adopted. High Izbo! I would like to inform you that on 3 June 2016, the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration provided the Senate with information on the police activities referred to in Article. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1.21 of the Police Act, including the information and data referred to in Article. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of this law, for 2015. This information is included in print No 206. On 10 June 2016, I addressed it to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. The Commission took note of this information at its meeting on 28 June 2016 and informed me thereof. In addition, I would like to inform you that on 15 June 2016, the Attorney General provided the Senate with a clear annual information on the total number of persons subject to a request for control and retention of telephone calls or an application for operational control. It is contained in print No 209. On 22 June 2016, I sent information to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. The Commission took note of the information at its meeting on 28 June 2016 and informed me thereof. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I suggest... I would like to inform you that, at the request of the Civic Platform Club, Mr Borusewicz's point on the report of the 2015 National Radio and Television Council's 2015 activity, together with information on the basic problems of radio and television in 2015, will be considered not at the current and the next Senate meeting. Does anyone want to take the floor on this? No? Thank you. I propose to consider point six of the draft agenda, although the committee's report on the resolution on the establishment of the Polonia Consultative Council was provided at a later date than specified in the article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear any objection, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any objection, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I propose that item 9 be removed from the agenda: information on the results of the Central Anti-corruption Office's activities in 2015. On 20 and 21 July 2016 and 10th item: information on the Ombudsman's activities for 2015 together with observations on the state of compliance with the rights of the child - and consider this point at the next Senate meeting. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any objection, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposals submitted. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose a change in the order of consideration of the first item of the agenda: the Law amending the Family and Care Code and certain other laws and consider this item as item of the last agenda. But I think that was point four, not the first... [[The voice came out: the first one, but in this order, which...]] Oh, that was the first one. Okay, okay. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any objection, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. I propose to supplement the agenda with points: the Act amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and some other laws and consider it as the first item of the agenda; the Act amending the Customs Law and certain other laws and consider it as item two of the agenda; amendment of the Law on Agricultural Advisory Units and review it after a point on the Law on the rules for determining the remuneration of persons managing certain companies; the Law on the amendment of the Law on Higher Education and certain other laws and review it after the section on the Law on Agricultural Advisory Units; second reading of the draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Senate After the resolution on the 100th anniversary of the Union of Earth; a change in the membership of the Senate Committee and consider this item as item of the last agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. Senator Florek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u2	Mr. Marshal, I object. 'Cause I'm already lost in these shifts... [[I'm the one who can say it again, Senator, if you'd like.]] ...which you gave, but you listed an important law on farm advisory units that wasn't on the agenda. I recall that according to the article. 32 and 34... well, that wasn't on the agenda for this meeting. I therefore object. This is a very important bill. It concerns the transfer of powers. Before that, they were moved from voivodeship to self-government, and today it is to be the other way around. I think in such a way, at such a rapid pace, when there is no time to prepare properly... In that case, I object to the inclusion on the agenda of this item, the law on agricultural advisory units. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u3	Thank you very much. [[Mr. Marshal...]] About what? [[Sustained.]] No, it's okay. Are there any other voices of objection? And if so, which point? [[Against self-government?]] Excuse me? [[I'm surprised the peasants against self-government...]] But, Senator, we're not commenting right now, because there's too many things we need to comment on. I can't see, I can't hear you objecting. In that case, ladies and gentlemen, I propose this vote... Since the vote of objection concerns one law, I propose that we vote on my proposal for all these laws that I have mentioned... [[Voice from the room: No, just this one...]] No? Just this one? But how do we vote... Oh, okay, that's fine, that's fine. It's the same thing. Okay, well, then I agree with your proposal and we will only vote on this formal motion from the senator. Let me rephrase this proposal. Who's in favour of Senator Flork's motion not to... [[Voice from the room: No, for your proposal to introduce...]] But that's what I wanted, ma'am. Ma'am, this is really indifferent as I make my conclusion. He's really about one point. Whether it is formulated in one way or another, ladies and gentlemen, the senators will surely understand what this is all about. Ladies and gentlemen, I repeat: who is in favour of Senator Flork's formal application for not supplementing the agenda with a point: a law amending the law on agricultural advisory units? Who's in favor of Senator Flork's request? Who's against it? Who's holding back? You're welcome to report the results. 84 senators voted against, 26 votes against, 58 votes against. [[Voting No 1]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that my proposal, which is to supplement the agenda for the amendment of the law on agricultural advisory units, has been taken into account. All the other points I have mentioned will also be considered at this meeting. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? I can't see and I can't hear the calls. Thank you very much. I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the twenty-second Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term. I would like to inform you that this is important information On the Law amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and on certain other laws, as well as on the Law amending the Law on Customs and certain other laws, i.e. on the items on the first and second agenda, will be carried out today after consideration of those items. A short technical break will be ordered if no amendments are made, or longer if amendments are made, in order to meet the committee and to respond to these amendments. The vote on the resolution on the 100th anniversary of the founding of the Grounders' Union will be held immediately after consideration of this point, i.e. tomorrow at 10 a.m. The remaining votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Here's another piece of information. I would like to inform you that if the Sejm adopts a resolution at its current sitting on the appeal of the President of the Office of Electronic Communications, the agenda will be supplemented by a point: consent to the appeal of the President of the Office of Electronic Communications. And one last piece of information. I would like to inform the senators that the current Senate meeting may be extended and the deliberations will be held on 12 July if we do not complete the agenda tomorrow. We proceed with the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 214 and the committee's report in print No 214 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski, to present a report to the committee. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Why don't I wait a minute until...]] [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u4	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Yesterday, a meeting took place between the Joint Committees: the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. The joint committees were subject to a law amending the law on taxation on goods and services and certain other laws. The bill was introduced by the Ministry of Finance. The main objective of the bill is to seal the tax system in the field of liquid fuel trading. The amendment of the Act contains changes in the scope of VAT taxation. The main elements of this law assume that in the event of the acquisition of fuels under suspension of excise duty, using the services of the tax warehouse or registered consignee, these entities will be the payer of the tax. The obligation to pay the tax is in principle to be incurred within 5 days of the introduction of the fuel into the country. Another of the elements of the bill is the introduction of... The price of motor fuels given in the 2-week cycle by the Minister responsible for public finances based on the wholesale prices of fuels in Poland will be used to determine the tax stance. It is a law amending other laws as well. On the basis of the amendment, the Energy Law will be amended, inter alia. to extend the requirements for applicants for concessions for the trading of liquid fuels abroad. This will be the introduction of an obligation to have a seat in the territory of the country or to conduct a foreign entity's activity licensed through a branch, registration for VAT purposes in Poland and additionally own storage capacity, possibly concluding a contract, under which such areas will be guaranteed prior to the application for a licence. As regards the Law on oil stocks, petroleum products and natural gas, these changes require the President of the Material Reserve Agency to inform the President of the URE of the agreements concluded by producers and traders referred to in Article. 10 and 11 of this law. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]] [[Excuse me, Mr. Senator, ladies and gentlemen, if you would please be very quiet and attentive, because this is the kind of chatter in the courtroom that bothers you with the rapporteur's senator. Quiet, please.]] With regard to the criminal code, the amendment of the law implies that infringements of the provisions of the excise duty Act, namely that an intra-Community supply or acquisition is not in conformity with the law and that excise goods are moved without a simplified accompanying document. The Act is to enter into force as a general rule on 1 August 2016. During the Seym work, the bill was unanimously supported by a vote in the Seym. As I recall, 434 Members voted in favour, no one voted against or abstained. At yesterday's budget committee meeting, the bill was adopted unanimously, but with 2 amendments. These are the amendments proposed by the Senate Legislative Office, with 1 amendment being, so to speak, the result of consultations between the Senate Legislative Office and the government party, the Minister of Finance. And as I said, the bill was positively and unanimously supported. I ask for the adoption by the High Senate, the High House of this law, together with 2 amendments proposed by the joint committees. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u5	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Please, Senator Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I have a question. If I understand correctly, now someone who buys fuel must meet certain conditions, be established in Poland and have the right decision. So? Can't he sell this fuel to a company outside Poland? [[No, no. May I, Mrs. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u7	Of course. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u8	No. From information and from my knowledge, there was no obligation to have a seat in Poland. The previous rules didn't regulate it. Therefore, there have been irregularities in intra-Community trade, i.e. non-resident foreign entities, which often do not have fuel warehouses, traded these fuels and there have been irregularities. The intention of this amendment is to seal this system, to regulate it, therefore the requirement to have a Polish NIP number, the one with the prefix This has nothing to do with intra-Community trade, it does not block further resale of fuels. This amendment has nothing to do with it, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u9	Thank you very much, Senator. Does anyone else have a question for the Senator of the rapporteur? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. He is with us today at the meeting of Minister Wiesław Jasiński, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Wiesław Jasiński: Yes, Mrs Marshal.]] Yes? You're welcome, Minister. Come on in, let's go to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u10	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The Act passed by the Sejm on 22 June this year is one of those laws in the catalogue to seal the tax system. These were the assumptions of the finance department that, in the coming months, from the autumn of last year, such a package will be presented. And if the senators allow, I will quote the figures on the effects of the laws that were adopted by the Polish Parliament within 6 or 7 months. Well, the proceeds to the budget from all taxes for the first 5 months of this year were 6.5 billion... sorry, by PLN 7.6 billion more than in the same period last year, also if you include tax on certain financial institutions. Without this tax, it was 6.5 billion for the first 5 months of this year compared to last year. The increase from VAT alone, if compared to May 2016 to May 2015, is 16.6%. I allow myself to present these figures only in order to signal the effectiveness of the solutions that the parliamentarians wanted to support. This specific act of 22 June seals the system for the marketing of fuels, and only in the part concerning the intra-Community acquisition of goods. At the same time, I would like to say that all entities who worked on this project, which took the form of a law of 22 June, namely the Ministry of Finance, but also various other resorts, such as the Ministry of Energy or the Energy Regulatory Office, realize that further solutions will be needed to seal the turnover of fuels also outside the intra-Community acquisition of goods. For the first time in this respect, we redefine the institutions of the registered consignee and the tax warehouse, making them payers of value added tax. In addition, we cause this law that the tax will be levied at the time of the introduction of fuel into the territory of the Republic of Poland, and customers of tax warehouses and registered customers may be entities What did the Senator rapporteur talk about? According to Polish law, according to the Act on VAT on goods and services. And I would like to thank all the senators involved in the work at the meeting of the finance committee yesterday. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u11	Thank you very much, Minister. Stay here a moment longer. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. There are senators who wish to ask such questions. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. You're welcome, Minister, yes, please, to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u12	Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, Minister, I most certainly praise your current activities and the fact that these laws are coming down and that they are designed to seal the tax system and, of course, to draw more money into the budget, but I have one doubt about the transitional provision in this Act. It's about art. 6. Do you have a minister in front of you... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Wiesław Jasiński: Yes.]] In the mouth. 1 We give the energy company 2 months to supplement, to change concessions, to submit an application for the modification of concessions. The President of URE has 2 months to issue a new concession. Actually, it's four months. The Act enters into force on 1 August, the date of entry into force of this Act has been fixed rigidly. And if we add 4 months to that date on August 1, it's December 1. And please note that in your mouth. 3 We are also giving the opportunity to act such an entrepreneur, which theoretically assume no I mean, he doesn't get a new concession until December 31st. What's with the skid month? Why do we still give time for anyone who does not comply with the provisions of the Act to operate on the fuel market not in accordance with this Act? It should only be four months, which is until December 1.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u13	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u14	If you don't mind, I'll consult on that. May I have your help, Director? [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm sorry, Mrs. Marshal, for this consultation, she was necessary. I remember that this provision was the subject of amendments at second reading also in the Sejm. We need this month for the so-called. technical issues, for correspondence with stakeholders. I think that's what led to the bill. That is the explanation of the senator's doubts and the answer to your concern. It's clear to me, or at least that's how I read the senator's question. . about sealing issues. So I'd like to ask the senator not to have any doubts here.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u15	If you don't mind, Marshal, I'd like to ask. I'll admit, Minister, you haven't calmed me down. On the contrary. Possibility of correspondence... After all, in this day and age it takes seconds, minutes, well, one day tops, but not a month, because in a month many things can happen, all the more so because we are talking about a kind of black hole or a gap, which, as you have noticed, is so annoying that it needs to be plugged up legally, I mean in short. Don't you think that date should be set? We still have time, can we do it today just for 1 December 2016, according to this calculation that I just presented to you? The terms will be consistent, it will all stick together, and at this point this bill, well, will just play, saying colloquially. What's the extra month for correspondence? I'm afraid it's more like tanker trucks coming here, not correspondence...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u16	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u17	I'll answer that. Mr. Senator, I have an art in front of me too. 6 and quoted by the senator In the interest of tightness, which I stress once again. The provisions of paragraph 1 shall apply mutatis This provision reads as follows: Energy companies may carry out activities consisting in the production of liquid fuels or the trading of liquid fuels from abroad on the basis of licences for the production of liquid fuels or the trading of liquid fuels from abroad issued before the entry into force of this Act, but no longer than 31 December 2016. Believe me, Mr. Senator, these particular issues have been consulted with businessmen. This was an important part of the legislative process This term is not longer than 31 December and is the result of consultation with traders. That's why I'd ask you to keep the record in its current shape.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u18	Thank you very much, Minister. And you ask Senator Robert Mammets a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u19	Thank you very much. Minister, we have news that the Treasury loses about 50 billion every year due to non-regulation of VAT. And I would like to ask you if you have any idea what the amount of unpaid tax resulting from its failure to pay in connection with the marketing of fuels is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u20	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u21	Mrs Marshal, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, the fact that we are dealing with a certain dynamic of the draft amendments to the tax laws and not only tax legislation in the fuel sector is the result that the highest estimates in the grey zone And I think that, above all, the activities related to the abuse of the construction of VAT apply to the fuel industry. Here precisely the calculations of the Ministry of Finance and representative organizations are consistent, supported, in my opinion, by the best possible methodology currently available in Poland. And this is a certain problem, and on the side of the Ministry of Finance, and the mentioned representative organizations. I'm begging you, there's no problem with that. For years, estimates have shown that it is about billions of zlotys. The estimates for 2015 say 10 billion. This part that we seal, as I said, is the first significant step. The next one will be soon. You know that the relevant projects are already being conducted in the Polish Sejm. As regards the part concerning the intra-Community acquisition of goods, this is PLN 2 billion 500 000.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u22	Thank you, Minister. You're welcome, Senator Robert Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u23	Minister, you said that at the moment the subject must comply with the requirements of Polish law. Very good. And have there been such cases that the fuels were traded by entities that were registered outside Poland and, you can say, bypassed the procedure of Polish law?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u24	Mr. Senator, yes, the meaning of this sealing is precisely such that the business you are talking about does not take place.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u25	Thank you. Would any of you like to ask another question about this law? No. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Wiesław Jasiński: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. I'll ask Senator Robert Dowhan to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u26	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I just want to say in a few words that we are in favour of this project. For a long time, a project has been asked to make such changes. For many years we've been hearing, the press and the media have been reporting... the media, because the press is also the media. The media informs us of multimillion-dollar frauds, that VAT only flows and leaks from Poland, that it does not enter the Treasury budget. The bill in question is a good bill. I hope that this vote on the 4 or 5 months mentioned will also be approved and that this issue will be clarified. Because actually today, in an electronic age, it seems, in the case of liquid goods such as fuel... Because this is a product that requires fast rotation. I'm talking about distributors today. It doesn't store. Because fuel prices are different, they cost once, they cost once, it's a lottery too. And I can't imagine anybody four months after one shipment waiting and turning. That would be abnormal. Today you buy and sell, the sooner you sell, the more you earn. So we're in favour. And it is a good thing that this bill is being discussed today by our Senate. I hope that the changes you have announced will come in as soon as possible, because they are needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u27	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held today. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item two of the agenda: the Act amending the Customs Law and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 213 and the committee report In print No 213 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Krzysztof Mroz, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u28	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Yesterday, the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances considered this law. It was adopted without amendments. The Act concerns the adaptation of our legislation to the EU Customs Code, which entered into force on 1 May 2016, and this was also the reason for adopting this law without amendment. She changes 21 laws, including the VAT Act... well, a lot of different laws. It has, so to speak, to adapt our internal rules to those EU rules which unfortunately already apply from 1 May, so, as I say, we are in a certain timeless situation. The Legislative Office submitted its comments to this law, as far as 20 comments are concerned. The Minister present at the committee meeting assessed them very highly. And there was an agreement between the Minister and the legislator that we were adopting a law without amendments, and there will be another amendment in July and these amendments will be taken into account. Most of the amendments, as the Minister said, are legislative in nature. This follows, as the Minister said, from the various legislative techniques that are used in the Ministry and by the Legislative Office of the Senate Office. Following these clarifications, the amendments were not discussed in detail at the committee meeting. The Commission adopted this law without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u29	Thank you very much, Senator. Stay on the stand, or there will be questions for you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Senator Maciej Grubski would like to ask you a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, how was the two-month delay in the entry into force of this law argued? [[Again, because yes...]] How was the two-month delay in the entry into force of this law argued? 'Cause you gave the border date on May 1, 2016.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u31	There was no such argument. This EU code was adopted in 2013. From that point on, it was time to adapt the rules or implement the rules to our legal system and we are doing it now.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u32	Thank you very much, Senator. Would any of you like to ask another question? I don't see any volunteers. I thank the rapporteur very much. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance, represented today by Minister Marian Banaś, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, was authorized to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would the Minister like to speak on this bill? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u33	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The Act on amending the Customs Law and certain other laws, Senate printing No 213, which was examined by the High Senate, was adopted by the Sejm on 22 June 2016. 427 Members voted in favour of the bill, no one voted against, one Member abstained. It can therefore be said that the act in question has been adopted unanimously. I would also like to inform you that the fundamental purpose of the law on amending the Customs Law and certain other laws is to make changes in the Polish legal order for the application of the EU Customs Code and the provisions implementing its provisions. In addition to customs law, this law amends, as has already been said, 22 laws, including the law on the tax on goods and services, the excise duty law or the law on the tax administration. The amendments made to these laws are complementary and adaptable. I would also like to add, in answer to the senator's question, that one of the main reasons... We were somehow forced to proceed with this law later: the introduction provisions were introduced in the European Union only in April, so we could not refer to them, to adapt them to our regulations. The code itself, which was adopted in 2013, was not enough, these introductory provisions were still needed. There was a lot of delay here, which is why we're late. We tried to take care of it as soon as possible. We want to thank all the parliamentarians, including the senators, for the smoothness of this procedure. We will be able to implement these rules and thus facilitate the functioning of our entrepreneurs, because this is mainly the case. I ask the High House kindly to adopt the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u34	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Czesław Ryszka, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u35	Minister, I have a question that came to my attention from customs. It's about the truck controls at the border. Is it true that the control is only sampling, that you are allowed to examine only a few percent of the trucks, and hundreds of trucks carrying, say, contraband, cigarettes from Ukraine, etc. They're passing through completely out of control? Is this just a rumor, or does it have something to do with the truth?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u36	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister. Come on up to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u37	Mr. Senator, this question concerns a slightly different sphere. We're talking about the code. But I'll try to answer them. Well, checks are made on the basis of a risk analysis that is quite thorough. Control shall be given to those entities for which the analysis shows that they should be checked. This system, which is a proven system also in the European Union, in our sense fully secures the functioning of the whole of this transport. I think there's just a question here that we should And we're gonna try to do that. To control a larger group of these entities, but, as I say, controls are made on the basis of a risk analysis and this is a system adopted throughout the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u38	Thank you very much. Now you want to ask Senator Maciej Grubski a question. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, the Customs Code assumes the operation of... Is this about customs duties or is it about customs duties? Could you zoom in on what this is all about?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u40	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u41	Senator, this is primarily about improving customs clearance. In the European Union, such a system is already adopted, that checks almost 100% they shall be made electronically. This is also the case with us, which involves certain procedures that facilitate the clearance of the simplified system.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u42	Thank you, Minister. Are there any more questions for the Minister? I don't see any calls. Thank you... Oh, and Senator Czerwinski. I'm sorry. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I am referring to the provisions which provide two different deadlines for the adaptation of the implementing rules. As far as customs matters are concerned, it is 3 months here and 6 months in the case of food safety. Isn't this three months too short? Will you be able to adapt the implementing rules? You're imposing such a short term. Question is, what happens if you don't make it? Perhaps the drafts of these two laws, these implementing acts are already ready, and then the Minister will calm us down.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u44	Yes, Mr. Senator, we already have these projects, so there's no fear, we'll make it on time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u45	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Minister? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held today after a 10-minute break. We're adjourned until 12:00. At 12:00 a.m. vote. [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 50 to 12 minutes 00]] I'm reopening the session. Dear Senators, please take your seats. I'm reopening the session. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. Dear Senators, I would like to inform you that the fifth item of the agenda, namely the Law on the amendment of the Law on Higher Education and some other laws, will be examined after the second reading of the draft resolution on the 100th anniversary of the founding of the Union of Earthlings. We return to the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and certain other laws. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation have presented a draft resolution in which they propose amendments to Senator Print No 214 A. In the first place, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety will be adopted, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. We're going to the voice room. Amendment 1 assumes that the condition that an appropriate NIP number is given, preceded by a PL code, by an entity for which fuels are purchased, should be met alongside the condition of having a seat in Poland and purchasing fuel for the purposes of activities in Poland and not instead of this condition. Who among you is in favour of this amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 75 senators voted, 75 were in favour, no votes against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 2]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 2 corrects the wrong reference. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 75 senators voted, all voted in favour. [[Voting No 3]] The amendment was accepted. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who among you is in favour of the bill? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 75 senators voted, 75 were in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. [[Voting No 4]] The bill's been passed. In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services and on certain other laws. Thank you very much. We return to the second agenda: the law amending the Customs Law and certain other laws. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senate printing No 213 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Senator Hare, please vote. [[I pressed the button, and I didn't vote. I'm sorry.]] Good. Thank you very much. Please state the results of the vote. 77 senators voted, 75 were in favour, no votes against, two senators abstained. [[Voting No 5]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Customs Law and certain other laws. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Law on the rules for determining the remuneration of persons running certain companies. The text of the Act is contained in print No 195 and the report of the Commission In print No 195 A. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Maybe just a moment, Mr. Senator, let's wait. Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. Quiet, ladies and gentlemen! I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Adam Gawada, to submit a report to the committee. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Just one more minute, Mr. Senator, let's wait till the gym quiets down. I ask you, Senator, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u46	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present a report by the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the Law on the Principles for the formation of remuneration of persons running certain companies adopted by the Sejm on 9 June 2016. On 10 June 2016, the Senate Marshal sent the bill to the committee. On 23 June 2016, the Commission examined it. The Law on the principles of determining the remuneration of persons managing certain companies aims to substantially change the approach to the principles of wage formation in commercial companies with the participation of the State Treasury, local government units and their associations, as well as state and municipal legal entities. The aim of the projectors is to establish an appropriate proportion between the need to ensure a flexible mechanism for determining remuneration and bringing it as close as possible to market rules and the need to fully implement the constitutional principle of social justice. The Act of 3 March 2000 on the rules of remuneration of persons managing certain legal entities, so-called, applies to the remuneration of members of management and supervisory bodies of companies with public participation. Chimney bill. However, the chimney law applies to companies with a majority share of the State Treasury. The proposed law governs the exercise of powers from shares or shares of commercial companies held by the State Treasury, local government units, their associations, state legal persons or municipal legal persons in determining the remuneration of members of management bodies and supervisory authorities, as well as the selected provisions of agreements concluded with members of management bodies. According to Art. 2 Act holders of equity rights in publicly owned companies will be required to take measures to shape and apply in the company the principles of remuneration of members of the management body and members of the supervisory body by voting by the general meeting or the shareholders' meeting of the company draft resolutions on the rules for determining the remuneration of members of the management body and members of the supervisory body of the company. In accordance with the Art. 4 The total remuneration of a member of the management body will consist of a fixed part, representing the basic monthly remuneration, specified in quota, and a part of the variable, constituting the supplementary remuneration for the financial year of the company. The Act comprehensively regulates and sets the proportions in those companies where employment and remuneration will depend on average annual employment, on annual turnover achieved, as well as on the sum of the assets of its balance sheet drawn up at the end of one of these financial years. The draft resolution on remuneration will also contain provisions that the supplementary remuneration of the member of the management body shall be payable after approval of the management report on the company's activities and the financial statements for the previous financial year and after discharge to that member of the management body in respect of the performance of his duties by the general meeting. This depends on the implementation of the management objectives set out in paragraph. 5 of this bill. In the course of the committee meeting, proposals were submitted. I do not hide that I am very satisfied that the government has presented a draft of this very important law, which regulates, really, even civilizes remuneration rules in state-owned companies, local and municipal companies, and provides grounds for the regulation of often appalling, enormous over-the-counter remuneration, as well as checks, which have so far caused many controversy. During his work, Senator Augustyn asked how the function of maintaining the principle of competitiveness between public and private companies would be carried out, how the remuneration would be determined for people already employed in the Treasury companies and whether we would not be exposed to trials. The Under-Secretary of State, who took part in the committee's meeting, commented on this and stressed that the Chimney Act introduced wage limits and also allowed the so-called. management contracts. The remuneration forks proposed in this Act are based on the analyses carried out. The salaries are already reduced by an average of about 20%. Once this law is passed, everyone will be subject to its requirements. Senator Klein, in turn, said that he was pleased with the announcement of the Minister, but he disagrees with the fact that the chimney bill did not work. He set an example for the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego and asked whether the law would not be an opportunity to create additional salaries e.g. by sitting on the supervisory boards of subsidiaries. To this question, the Minister replied, indicating that a member of the management body would not be a member of the boards of subsidiaries and, if he is a member, without any additional remuneration. In turn, Senator Napieralski pointed out that Law and Justice criticized too much remuneration of managers of companies of the Treasury. He asked why remuneration in these companies is not dependent on results. He is also convinced that there will be no reduction. The Minister representing the government has assured us that there will be no increase in salaries, that salaries will fall significantly. The estimated average savings will be I say: the average, based on the analyses carried out Approximately PLN 59 million. In addition, Senator Napieralski asked about the link between the remuneration of managers and the remuneration of employees of the company. The government does not foresee such solutions in this regard. Senator Augustyn said that in private companies the rules of prohibition of competition are applied, i.e. there is no possibility of hiring in a competitive company for a period of one year, and the provisions of the proposed law introduce a period of six months. Why? The Minister stressed that regulations on the prohibition of competition were often abused in order to ensure high clearances. We treat the prohibition of competition in accordance with its actual definition. On the other hand, Senator Pekkis has set an example of the collection of high salaries by public office holders who have previously been employed in State Treasury companies, and the exercise of public office naturally excludes the possibility of making or exercising illegal competition. I also asked about the interpretation doubts raised and presented by the Union of Polish Banks, which, according to the Ministry, are unreasonable. I have been told that these doubts have no legal basis. I therefore ask the High House to adopt the attached draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u47	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Please, the question is asked by Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u48	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question about whether you could approximate the maximum remuneration of a CEO or a member of the board of directors of such a company under this law, and what could be the lowest, let's say, in those small companies, which up to dozens of... There's a distinction to ten, to eleven... I mean, we should know the range of forks and the minimum. Of course approximate, because there are many parameters that will ultimately determine the salary of a member of the board. The idea is to approximate the value in zlotys. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u49	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u50	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Such calculations were not presented in the committee, however, by reading the article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 2, where there is a precise basis, i.e. specific categories of possible remuneration are defined, it can be noted that in the case of the smallest companies, i.e. employing up to 10 employees on average, this will be from one to three times the size base. The definition of the basis of assessment, also laid down in this Act, is: this means the average monthly salary in the enterprise sector without the payment of profits in the fourth quarter of the previous year announced by the President of the Central Statistical Office. So in these smallest companies, this will be: 1 to 3 times the base plus the premium, and in the case of the largest companies, employing at least 1 thousand 251 employees on average or achieving annual net turnover from the sale of goods, products and services and financial operations higher than the equivalent in PLN 250 million or for which the balance sheet assets at the end of one of those years were higher than the equivalent in PLN 215 million, this will be from seven times to fifteen times the size base. The bill also sets out the rules for granting... a significant role of the company or other circumstances that indicate... For example, a complex restructuring and repair process forces some additional involvement of board members. I also received information from the Ministry about this. And maybe here, Mr. Senator, a little more information. What will the savings be? In total, they will amount to about PLN 59 million. As far as the individual groups are concerned, in the case of 27 companies of the group defined in point 1, i.e. those smallest companies, the savings will amount to PLN 25 000 per person. In the case of larger companies, PLN 42 thousand per person. In 32 companies of the group defined in point 3, i.e. in medium-sized companies, it will be about PLN 15 thousand per person, and in 22 companies of the group belonging to the highest category it will be PLN 560 thousand per person per year. The average annual remuneration of board members will decrease by PLN 560 thousand per person.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u51	Thank you very much, Senator. The question is Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u52	Thank you. Mr Senator, rapporteur! Has it been considered that managers and supervisors in large and small companies should, however, be qualified persons? In other words, were these amendments taken into account in the Senate, according to which the persons managing the education and management practices were given census? Is it true that newly appointed persons... that, for example. The vice president of PKO BP Bank will gain 9 times the remuneration he has received so far? So where are the savings? Is it true that savings result from the fact that there have been abuses and that the state or initiators consider them beneficial? The benefits associated with fraud should be returned immediately to the Treasury. Has it been asked whether the Minister, who is so proud of this law, has taken any action to attract public funds that have been abused in companies? What steps he has taken, among others. in the case of insurance companies which would cause the reimbursement of just those 60 million PLN that were lost in the past? Next question. Why does it generally increase... Why didn't you mention that up to 15 times the salary is still 100% That paycheck? So this benefit is going to be 30 times the average wage in the economy... [[Industry.]] ...in industry. Question: "Why are such people going to be given checks if they are natural persons?" Do you know of a civil-law agreement for which the parties are granted a briefing as a result of the separation of the parties? I don't know the deal. Come on. But why is it possible to take a dose for different reasons... That's it for now.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u53	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u54	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! As far as the first three questions are concerned, at the committee meeting, as I recall, which was two weeks ago, there was no discussion on the subject, but I will answer in this way. Indeed, we have dealt with a number of cases of abuse before, and this is an abuse in the form of over-remuneration. This law regulates, in principle indicates forks for smaller, medium and large companies, the largest companies, and determines the possibility of granting a premium. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 5 also specifies that the variable part of the remuneration of the member of the management body, which is the supplementary remuneration for the financial year of the company, depends on the level of implementation of management objectives, the importance of management objectives, also indicates objective and measurable criteria for their implementation. Therefore, we have not analysed what the senator is talking about, and what concerns some individual case in the bank. I don't know that, and I don't recall us talking about it at the committee's meeting, which is why I find it difficult to relate to it. As a general rule, the issue of clearance, the regulation of these clearances is clearly clarified, because we are talking not about annual clearances, but about the prohibition of competition, which covers a period of six months, and in justified cases where the beneficiary of this clearance, in short, has been employed in another company as a manager, this remuneration, the amount resulting from the prohibition of competition will not be lost. Did I provide sufficient information at this stage, sufficient answers? Mr. Senator, you've asked a lot of questions. As I say, the first three issues have not been addressed, and as for the latter two, I've been trying to tell the senator. what was mentioned at the committee meeting. [[Mrs. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u55	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u56	One more thing, Mrs. Marshal. The most important thing is why the competence of managers and supervisors has not been taken into account.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u57	Senator, the criterion of expertise is taken into account when hiring managers for appropriate positions. This bill shapes the remuneration of persons running certain companies, and therefore does not cover what the senator is asking at the moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u58	Thank you, Senator. Senator Piotr Flork's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u59	Mrs. Marshal! Mr Senator, rapporteur! You were talking about savings, about how much it was supposed to be. Maybe I'd agree that it's possible, but in the first year. Why? We're talking about organ members' salaries, you're talking about the size from one to a maximum of 15 times. I'm gonna focus on the maximum, because the entire board always... These management contracts, they're so high, and that's what this bill is for. Anyway, there's a fixed part and a variable part. The fixed part, when we count what you said, is up to 64,000, the variable part 64, 128 times 12 months, which would seem to be a maximum of 1.5 million. And everything would be fine if there wasn't a gate. I'm reading art. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of 3: a draft resolution on the rules for determining remuneration may provide for a different amount of the fixed part of the remuneration of the management body, etc. Here is the catalogue, it is mentioned in which cases it is possible, and here is the expression Therefore, I do not see that this is a limitation of the possibility. [[It's been a minute.]] That's why I'd like to ask you about the savings you were talking about. What resulted in such savings? I'd rather point out it's not gonna be savings, and who knows if it's gonna take more... Because in local companies with employment e.g. 50 people, when we count, it turns out that the salary will be higher than what the directors are currently receiving. [[Question, Mr. Senator.]] So I'm gonna ask you again about the savings in a year. Was it somehow calculated, or was it supported by this claim that there would be savings? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u60	Thank you. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u61	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Yes, of course, this calculation was sent to me, and it was presented by the Director of the Treasury Ministry at the committee meeting. It provides an estimated total savings at the level, as I said, of PLN 59 million. About the article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of 3... Mr. Senator, please read this whole mouth. 3: Draft resolution on the rules for determining the remuneration of members of the management body referred to in Article. 2 (2) Point 2 (1) may provide for a different amount of the fixed part of the remuneration of a member of the management body. However, please note that in this case there must be written justification and publication on the subject page in the Public Information Bulletin. At the committee's meeting, there was a mention of this. And the Minister spoke about it, and during the debate it was strongly emphasised. It's going to be transparent. If this provision of the Act is applied, it will have to be published in the Public Information Bulletin.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u62	Thank you. Senator Mieczysław Golba's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u63	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! My question is this: Because when we were talking about this law at the committee meeting, it seemed very clear to us that the Minister was going to make it very clear that there would really be a lot of savings, that it would first and foremost sort out all the chaos that we have had so far, because in recent years in particular, the powerful checks that were, but also those civil law agreements that were concluded on outstanding amounts, often in the ordinary citizen of our country, practically caused dizziness. But on the other hand, there will now be some reservations. About this bill. And I have a question for you. Senator rapporteur, will there really be savings? Will there be savings for practically a given company, or will it be able to use these savings for investments, or will it be able to develop them better? Will the Polish society see that changes are very visible, not only apparent but visible? The changes that will first of all give a clear message that it is simply the end of those unclear decisions that had previously taken place, in particular with regard to such very high wages?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u64	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u65	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Well, indeed, this law provides an instrument allowing for very transparent wage formation, especially in companies of the State Treasury, but also in local and municipal companies. That's one thing. The estimated savings I have already mentioned are quite large because they reach almost PLN 60 million. And if they really are, we'll find out. This law also emphasizes some transparency and transparency of the decisions taken, because if it is used, as the Senator said earlier, from this paragraph. Article 3 4, this information will have to be included in the Public Information Bulletin. And this for society will also be a very good opportunity to analyze, track and check decisions in this area.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u66	Thank you very much. Once again, you ask Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u67	Two questions. As you know, a chimney law in the case of civil law contracts, whether it's with a civilian person entered in the register, whether it's with a person conducting an economic activity as a company... Well, such an agreement in the event of management errors was covered by the personal property of that managing person or, if it was a company, by appropriate insurance. It's not in this bill. Why, even though they are natural persons, has this security element been omitted? Next question. Indeed, this law also includes companies in which public capital is less than 50%. Did you analyze at the committee meeting the position of the National Judicial Council, based on the Constitution and Commercial Companies Code, that the public authority cannot restrict the owner in the fact that he as the owner, sometimes almost absolute, because he may have 90% shares and only 10% That could be public capital... that's 10%. it will decide on the employment or remuneration of that managing person. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the check-in is not only due to compensation for activities in a competing company, but is applicable at all.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u68	Thank you. I'm asking the senator for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u69	Yes, Senator, in this last sentence, you're right, but I'm just talking about the abuse of this non-compete clause. I'm going back to the questions. The chimney law allowed management contracts to be concluded and defined other elements related to it. All these records are not included in this bill, because the shape of the bill is different. That's one thing. Secondly, about the so-called elements. Assuredness, of which the senator was gracious to say, we were not discussing on the committee, and therefore I find it difficult to refer to it. Nor did we analyze the request of the judicial authority because it simply did not reach us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u70	Thank you. And Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I counted so quickly, and it turned out to me that these top CEOs of the biggest companies will get between 130,000 and 150,000 a month. You said that the bill was designed to implement the constitutional principle of social justice. Explain to me how the constitutional principle of social justice, according to you... Let me remind you that this will be between 130,000 and 150,000 a month. Is that, in your opinion, a measure, as you said, of constitutional social justice? Please comment. [[In eight years, you don't seem to be...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u72	You're welcome... [[Sir...]] Quiet, please. [[Lord, take care of yourself and the horses, not...]] Quiet, please. [[Because if you say...]] Quiet, gentlemen of the Senators, please! [[Mrs. Marshal, but...]] Gentlemen of the Senators! [[You can't listen to this, Mrs. Marshal.]] Mr. Senator, I didn't give you the floor. [[Where have they been for eight years?]] But, Senator... [[Where...]] Mr. Senator! Mr. Senator, I didn't give you the floor. Please... [[Are you on the field?]] You can ask a question and then speak in the discussion. I ask you to avoid such comments about other states senators. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u73	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! The constitutional principle of justice... As part of the report on the committee meeting, which I had the honour to present to the High House, I spoke about the issues that were raised at this meeting, as well as the questions that were addressed to the Minister, as well as the observations or requests made by the various senators. I would like to point out that at the current level I'm not referring to what's been going on. The average value of the contract, contracts with managers of the largest companies of the State Treasury is 20% lower. Whether it's a little or a lot, it's a matter of judgment. In my deepest conviction, this 20% less signals that too high rates have already been verified at the level of these contracts. Is that gonna be 130 and 150 grand? I didn't calculate it, sir. The senator said so. All the provisions of the Article will certainly be taken into account. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 and paragraph 1. 5. Does this implement the constitutional principle of social justice? It certainly goes in this direction and certainly cleans up the entire management space of the Treasury companies. I would like to point out that the committee's meeting focused on And that was on your part. For those largest companies where very high qualifications and powers are required; good managers will not want to come for low wages. I don't want to go into polemics here. I think this bill regulates it. I think that my answer indicates that this is the ordering of this process.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u74	Thank you, Senator. And Senator Jan Dobrzyński, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I will remind the Senators of the Civic Platform that for eight years the salaries you spoke of were twice as high as they are now. Law and Justice have, in many cases, reduced... [[Mrs. Marshal, there will be a debate. It's in the debate...]] ...pays by half. It's just a reminder. [[Quiet, please.]] I have a question, Mr. Senator, if... [[I understand it was an introduction, and now we have a question.]] I have a question, Mr. Senator, about the article. 7. There's talk of a briefing in the height of no. higher than three times the part of the fixed remuneration provided that the person has worked at least 12 months, i.e. a year. Are those three months... Will it be extra payments for those resulting from the code 3 months, Senator?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u76	No, this is due to a check which may be specified at a level of not more than three times the fixed part of the salary. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]] [[Senator Piotr Florek is asking a question...]] [[What's the point...]] [[Oh, I'm sorry.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u77	What is the purpose of such a record? [[Exactly.]] Why should we pay an additional three-month salary to a director who, for example, earns $60.70,000 and works for 5 years? What's the point?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u78	This is also due to the general provisions. [[Like what?]] Well, basically... this is where you have to read the whole article. In the case referred to in Article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 (2), draft resolutions on remuneration shall determine this in the event of termination or termination of the contract for the provision of management services of a member of the management body by the company for other reasons than breach of the basic obligations arising from the contract. It is therefore referred to here that such members of the management body may be granted a check of no higher than three times the part of the fixed salary, and that's why we emphasized it here; and this is a government project going in this direction. Because before that, they were often much higher checks, at the level of the annual check-in. So here... [[Then why even up to three months, Mr. Senator...]] And that is what you ask the government representative, because we did not discuss this at the committee meeting. We thought that three months' notice was acceptable, because it also comes from other regulations. I may not be able to say more here, but the Minister will answer this question during the debate and the questions. [[I will, of course, ask the government that question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u79	Senator Piotr Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u80	Senator, the law also applies to local government units, state legal entities, municipal legal entities As I read it, I look at it as a little bit as a former self-government officer. As regards average employment of at least 51 employees, it is written here: from three times to five times the base. And three times the base, three times four, that's 12 thousand zlotys is a municipal company, so we can assume in advance that we're definitely dealing with increases, because therefore the minimum wage will be at this level, which is higher than the old man's or mayor's salary, because that's what the assumption is. And did you talk... That's what I'm talking about, if it's three times, because I'm talking about the lowest three times, not five times. That this is linked to recent increases for the State Treasury, for local government units, also for municipal legal entities. Was there a speech about that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u81	Thank you. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u82	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, there was no mention of this at the committee meeting, at least in this discussion we are talking about here. Whether it's a raise or not, it's hard for me to relate to it, because we'd have to have full information about how salaries are shaped in all municipal companies, etc. Perhaps in some cases it will be like a realization of wages. And let's also be honest, honestly, that municipal companies are not companies that can be mismanaged. They often carry out very important tasks from the level of self-government, etc., and therefore make salaries more effective in this perspective. Of course, this is just my position, not the committee's position, because, as I said, it was not discussed. It can improve the quality of management in these municipal companies.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u83	Thank you. Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u84	The bill says that the managers or supervisors will be natural persons who... The question is why modern methods, known especially in large companies or business entities, are abandoned, are about the employment of the management company. Why is he quitting the competitions? Why do you give up looking for offers, adverts, and it comes down to a personal indication?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u85	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u86	Mr Marshal, as I said, as I said, the issue you are talking about at the moment does not cover the very law on wage-setting rules and this issue was not raised at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u87	Thank you. More questions, I see, are gone. Thank you, Senator, thank you very much. [[Thank you, Mr. Marshal.]] The bill was filed by the government. Would Minister Filip Grzegorczyk like to present the position of the government in the course of the work... Yes? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u88	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! If you don't mind, in a few words, I'd say... [[Of course, you can answer the questions, too.]] Yeah, yeah. I think that the government's position has actually been presented by Senator Gadawa, so in order to facilitate further discussion, I would immediately address the questions. Not so much can in the Convention answer the question as to how much in the Convention comment on the key problems that were raised here by the senators. Well, the first issue that... Senator Rulewski's attention is a priceless remark about the qualifications of the persons appointed to boards, supervisory boards, etc. That's all I can say, Mr. Senator, as a matter of principle, I agree fully with the senator. The Ministry of State Treasury is currently working to rationalise these requirements. Today it is quite... well, let's face it, a flawed legal status in terms of qualifications or legal requirements in terms of members of the board of directors of supervisory boards. We're working on it. So, as a rule, I agree with the senator. However, this law is not the right act to regulate matters relating to the competence of persons who act as a member of the board or supervisory board. On the issue of abuse, ladies and gentlemen, the Senate, are, I would say, two types of abuse. One type is abuse, which is simply illegal. As far as these issues are concerned, the companies have been carried out and are still in part The audits and the information we have obtained show that in cases where infringements are diagnosed, these cases are addressed to law enforcement authorities. There's another category of abuse. It's an abuse of such a nature, I'd say... due to a lack of social sensitivity. Well, some things just don't seem right to do. And speaking of these abuses, I mean, for example. Space just payback. In a relatively poor country it is simply not right to earn 3 million PLN in a company controlled by the Treasury, that is abuse. It's an abuse of character, I'd say, socio-political towards society. But, well, that's not illegal. It's not illegal, but we think it's pathological, and we just want to eliminate this pathology. That's the way to fight these abuses. There were also questions about savings. I ask you, as to the projected savings, it is always so that certain simulations are being carried out. After all, we are talking about a future condition that we anticipate in one way or another. These savings were calculated as follows: on the one hand, today's wages were compared, which were real, and on the other hand, as part of a projection of the future, we took into account the average range of forks that we defined. That is why these estimates of savings of PLN 59 million result. So if these forecasts are real, these savings will be. Well, it's a matter of accuracy. If the assumptions are correct and whoever carries out these tasks is honest, then these savings will take place. I have no doubt about the correctness of the methodology used, so in my opinion these savings will occur, even for this reason, that there is such ownership will. It's the owner's will that these salaries go down. As Senator Gawada said here, in these largest companies, wages have already been reduced by around 20%. Here I would use such an evangelical term: "By the fruits of them you will know." There's no law yet, and there's already fruit. This shows how we're going to proceed in the next step. I would like to add two words about the problem of companies 50 plus. Senator Rulewski refers to the fact that we are too interfering with property. Well, Mr. Senator, we're not interfering right now. Please note that the chimney bill intervened because she ignored those who were 49.9% , and the companies were incorporated into the scope of this law by their own means. This law provides otherwise: we actually include corporate methods of all companies controlled by the State Treasury. We use methods from the Commercial Companies Code, because in fact the main actor will be the one who exercises corporate control. 70% The shareholders of PKN Orlen do not like the fact that the State Treasury with less than 30% can vote on these rules. Well, if you don't like it, then go ahead and get the State Treasury to vote, let him try. This is purely corporate... If anybody doesn't, they won't vote: they're in control. And we're gonna use it, using civilized methods, not methods that result from the chimney law. Senator Czarnobaj asked about the principle of social justice. I'd say I've got a problem here, 'cause every time. When I'm talking about this bill This is one time in turn, because it was mentioned in committee meetings and in the Seym, and in the Senate. Some opposition senators focus heavily on the principle of social justice and claim that we pay too much, and other senators of the same opposition say that it may not be enough, because there is a question of pay, competitiveness of wages; they ask: what managers will come to manage these companies? To be honest, I'm a little confused because we've proposed something that we think is a reasonable solution, a golden measure, but the government is still under attack if not on the one hand, on the other. À by way of a proposal I will quote the data so that we know exactly what we are talking about. Is it socially fair that the remuneration of the president of PKO BP for 2015 amounted to PLN 2 million 892 thousand, the President of Orlen 6 million PLN 549 thousand, KHGM 2 million 438, Tauron 1 million 678, CEO of PZU 3 million 268, Enei 3 million 12 thousand, Stock Exchange 1 million PLN 598 thousand. These are the salaries paid for 2015. [[Boards, right?]] The presidents. These aren't directors' salaries, these are CEOs' salaries. And now, if the senators allow... We came and didn't find a vacuum, just a certain state of affairs. This is the remuneration paid for 2015, i.e. the remuneration fixed earlier, at least in 2014. And we're not going down six times, we're going down those levels I'm talking about. Mr. Senator has calculated, aptly enough, that if we qualify the company for the group of the largest companies, where we earn the most and where half of the salary is emphasized: half of the salary is a bonus... The senator calculated it's 150,000 a month. I confirm it's 60,000 a month plus a bonus if the results are done. In the case of PKO BP this means 1 million 351 thousand zł savings on the president of... [[A year?]] Yeah, a year. In the case of Orlen, PLN 5 million savings per president per year, in the case of KGHM, PLN 897 thousand; in the case of Tauron, PLN 137 thousand; in the case of PZU, PLN 1 million, PLN 727 thousand, PLN 60. In the case of Enea it is a savings of PLN 1 million 471 thousand 864 and in the case of the Stock Exchange it is a savings of exactly PLN 981,000 624. So, ladies and gentlemen, let's not judge because this is just a serious mistake. That we're relinquishing... that the chimney bill was setting a ceiling. If someone didn't want to apply the ceiling, then the ceiling just wasn't there. We don't lower our wages. The starting point is not six times, the starting point is infinity. I'm sorry, but for me as a natural person, a salary of PLN 6 million 500 thousand is almost infinity. And I think that for also ninety-seven percent of our country's citizens it's just infinity. This is money that most Poles have never earned or earned in their lives. I'd like us to keep that in mind. And one last point, the last two issues I would like to address here. Senator Dobrzyński asked about the checks, the prohibition of competition, I understand, and the period of notice. I'm not hiding, Senator, that this is the same dilemma again. Because on the one hand, of course, we want to cut the pathology, but on the other hand, we have to look at the market. And unfortunately, a thorough analysis of contracts both in companies of the State Treasury and in private companies shows that in fact such benefits are paid as standard. But I would like to stress very strongly that the social sensitivity of those who set up these salaries will play quite a role here. The ceilings in question are the maximum ceilings for the benefits in question. Highlights: maximum. Please do not read it so that there will be a three-month briefing, please read it so that you may possibly be granted a check of up to 3 salaries, I stress. It's basic. But situations such as the fact that the President of Orlen will, as a result of the appeal, incriminate, just like that, 3 million zlotys, will no longer be. On the one hand, it is about eliminating all these gigantic pathologies, and on the other hand, we want companies to manage people who are fairly rewarded. And as for the question raised by Senator Flork, if I have correctly noted the remuneration in the local companies, then, ladies and gentlemen, indicated in the article. 4 makes it easy to reduce wages. It's not like these forks can be... there's some kind of climbing gate in there. She can also be used to lower wages. It's not like the government has to raise their salary overnight. Absolutely. If the government believes that today's pay system is okay, then please, it can continue to apply it. So I'm guessing this possible charge isn't a hit-and-run charge. One last remark about the companies 50 plus. It was this approach we are talking about that allowed us to shape these extraordinary salaries, Mr. Senator, in companies with minority participation of the State Treasury. Please note that the examples I have cited... [[Where are the minority ones? There aren't any.]] That's right, Mr. Senator. As mentioned by me, shocking examples of pay are likely to apply to the vast majority of companies not covered by the chimney at all. After all, PKO BP is not covered by the chimney law, Orlen is not covered by the chimney law, KGHM is the same; Tauron is the same; PZU is the same; the stock exchange is the same. So, in fact, the fight for the incorporation of companies 50 plus is a fight to ensure that the presidents of companies with minority participation can continue to be rewarded in an unprecedented way. We're fighting another fight. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u89	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute of questioning. Minister, just a moment, because there will probably be additional questions for you. Senator Dobrzyński? Senator Jan Dobrzyński. There you go. [[Thank you, Mr. Marshal...]] Senator Leszek Czarnobaj volunteered? Yes, write down... And write me down, too. Minister, please... Senator Jan Dobrzyński, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u90	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I'll go back to those three months. Maybe I'll explain briefly what I mean. If a person is employed under a contract of employment and the labour code is in force, he or she shall be entitled to a 3-month remuneration in the event of termination of the contract of employment. If we insert in the law, in the article. 7, these 3 months, I'm the one who takes it as an extra, Minister. So this person, in the event of an exemption, will take a three-and-a-three-month check... together with a six-month salary. I see no reason, Minister... what you're talking about is gross amounts, we see the pathology of the economy ruled by the Platform and the PSL. And now, if a person You know very well that this is a very low amount, it earns 40 and 50 thousand a month, it works 3 and 4 years, Minister, so what's the point of 3 months for it? In the Labour Code, these 3 months were like securing people who have very low wages, so that they could find jobs on the market for these 3 months. In this case, there is no need, because if this gentleman took, as you say, 6 million a year and worked for 2, 3 years, then why does he need the extra 3 million, Minister? Here the amount is different, but I see no reason to add these three months. We're talking about people who make very, very good money. And now... And if there isn't, for example. employment contracts, only a management contract is concluded in different ways, or this person carries out an economic activity, these forms are very much, and I understand that these 3 months do not apply, such a person may, for example. take 12 times, because that's how it's written in the contract, and that's about the employment contract. Minister, please explain in detail, because there may be some unauthorised use of the company's funds.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u91	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u92	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, Mr. Senator, the market analysis has shown that the presidents of the top companies I have listed, in the event of a cancellation from the function, receive benefits or benefits equal to the amount of actually annual remuneration, including bonuses. This best illustrates the example of Orlen's president, who was cancelled: in 2015 he earned 3 million and took... [[Voice from the room: 3 million.]] ...3 million briefings. So our reasoning was this: we want competent people to work for us, and the market says that actually for some time after the cancellation of a given manager he is paid... And we scaled it approximately in such a way that this person gets some more benefits for a maximum of 12 months, because it is actually standard. This is, moreover, more or less adapted to the provisions on taxation of checks. Therefore, the system is that we have the maximum I stress: maximum three months' notice, maximum three months' notice and maximum six months' prohibition of competition. That means that the person who was canceled has these benefits in the contract. I would like to stress: provided that it is entered It is still entitled to 12 basic salaries. But let me stress: basics, no bonuses. And that's a fact, I'm confirming it. What was driving us? On the one hand, the question of cutting the entire level of bonuses, of what this person receives, and on the other hand, we would prefer to avoid the difficulty of acquiring managers who can actually come from the market and say: no, if I do not have a guaranteed minimum of mentoring after the termination of employment, then I am not in it. That's why we take this to a large extent as such a gateway. This gate is explained, Mr. Senator. It's a gateway, it's an opportunity, and nobody said it was gonna be given to anyone. It's an opportunity because we can't write a bill like this, so I'm going to define it as a deadly non-market act, like a chimney bill, because we're actually going to have a problem with human resources. So there are possibilities, and I'm confirming that, but from the market position, I'm gonna defend it. We need to have a safety valve. I wish we didn't mix employment contracts with contracts. According to this law, however, we are dealing with the transition in principle to the contract system, not to the employment relationship, because we want the manager to be actually a hired manager and so that, for whom, but the manager does not have any employee protection. It's just supposed to be an efficient manager, an efficient hired manager. That's why we shouldn't mix. 2 cleanings, let's not mix in this work code, because these managers just won't be covered by the work code. The manager, because that's how you have to look at it, does a lot of work at risk. It's not a person who might call it that. It's supposed to be protected just like an employee. Therefore, the market shows, and we have an appropriate analysis of this, that in some way in the case of these persons these benefits should be preserved, although we have done so with some reluctance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u93	Thank you very much. Minister, now I'm asking the question. Minister, Mr Pietryszyn, who became President of Lotus after 3 months of being Vice President of PZU, stated that he had resigned from the amount of PLN 0.5 million for the prohibition of competition. In this connection, I ask whether he received a briefing or not, and if so, how much, for these three months of working as PZU's vice president.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u94	Mr. Marshal, I say I just don't know. But if the marshal wishes and it's not a violation of corporate rules... [[It won't. I'll have it in writing, okay?]] ...we'll make a proper check. I do not know the statement of President Pietryszyn in this regard.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u95	I understand, therefore, that I would ask for a written reply. I take it you don't know. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Treasury Filip Grzegorczyk: Okay.]] Now we're going to Senator Flork's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u96	Minister, you've been talking about infinity before. If we add an article in this bill, I think it was an article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 3, this, too, may be the case that these earnings will also be said to have no boundaries. Minister, I have a question for you. I am talking about those entities you were talking about, mainly municipal legal persons, local government units and the fact that they probably employ more than 50 employees on average, so this size from three times to five times the basis is an option here, and the law is a law on determining the remuneration of persons running certain companies and these companies are also an option. I don't know if I understood you correctly, because you said it doesn't have to be three times. The bill says that from three times to five times. Does this mean that if someone is currently making less money, and perhaps such examples can be given, then local governments will not have to comply with this law? I'm thinking about old age right now, about an uncle who's gonna have to raise his salary eventually, and that, of course, involves a budget. Therefore, the question is whether, indeed, what you have said is true or whether it is necessary to adapt to this threefold. I give this as an example. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u97	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u98	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Mr. Senator! With regard to the first part of the senator's statement, I will say this: Mr. Senator, we have already reduced the salary, without a bill. So don't worry about which way we're going. We're walking away from this unbelievable limit left by our predecessors, so let's try to end... [[Voice from the room:...you have to do it.]] Yes. And on my part, there's nothing to worry about. The only reason you're gonna be watching is to admit we're right, because there's no way out. As for the second point, this law is a highly corporate law. Let me put it this way: of course, everyone will have to comply with the law, because it is a universal act in our country... It is or will be if you wish to adopt this law. But that doesn't mean that in any case those forks that are defined in it are forks that I would call indicative forks. You'll have to use it. I mean, in short, that the local government won't be able to say that it has to raise salaries because it's from the bill. That's not true. If the government finds that as a result of the forks... Of course, forks are always a little a prioritized, aren't they? It's like when you grow up in the 18th year of your life, someone's determined it, and that's the way it is. So the forks were determined on the basis of research, but to some extent it's arbitrary. If the government considers that it cannot afford it, it will simply set a lower remuneration. But that's not... You're talking about not applying the bill. No, he's gonna have to apply the law, even if it's a bonus, even in other matters. We do not pay any attention to the fact that the Act forces much more work on supervisory boards than has been done so far. Mr. Senator, I'm telling you the truth, I'm sure of it. There's no automaticism about raising salaries.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u99	Thank you, Minister. Senator Czesław Ryszka.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u100	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have two questions. Number one. Namely, in the chimney law it was mentioned that it covers only companies of the State Treasury, which have more than 50% Shares... Now this bill says below. And I ask, how many companies does the chimney bill apply to, and how much will it take? That was the first question. The other one's connected to him. Namely, let's assume that the State Treasury has only 15% in some company. shares, i.e. there is absolutely no decisive vote to be able to implement this law. How will this work in practice? Who has to agree to make such assumptions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u101	Thank you, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u102	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! To answer the first question, I would like to say that the chimney law, yes, covers companies 50 plus, while this law covers all companies controlled by the State Treasury. Because sometimes, with 20%, twenty percent, you can control them, too. Companies such as Orlen or Tauron, in which we have slightly more than 30% of the shares, are companies which will be subject to this law and which, in short, are controlled. I have no data, so I will not give you the number of companies covered by the chimney law, because the chimney law spoke about companies with direct participation, but also companies with indirect participation, on the so-called. level N-1. We actually go where there's control, to our grandson's companies, our grandson's company, and, in fact, where we can. So I'm not going to give you the figures, but I can say that this is a definite increase in the number of these companies; I have no doubt about that. And the second question is, if the senator... [[Second question: is there a smaller share of the State Treasury...]] Well, let's face it, it's impossible to regulate... In order to do this, we would simply have to introduce a remuneration law in commercial companies. In short, where there is control, I stress. If we have 15% And we control the company, of course this bill will be applied, because we are going to vote it out physically at the general meeting. If there's no control, then there's no control. Well, it's hard to say that we're dealing with companies controlled by the State Treasury. But here the subject range de facto is much wider than the scope of the chimney law.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u103	Thank you, Minister. The question is asked by Senator Jan Rulewski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u104	Minister, aren't you overreacting a little bit about your knowledge, a wonderful... Where is the word "control" entered in the Act? Art. 14 says the 50 plus requirement is lifted. This means that in the case of a private company, with mixed capital 1% the supervisors, or members of the board, are obliged to apply this law. That means it's limited, and it's taken away property rights. The word "control" does not exist, although I agree that this should be the case. The second question, sir, relates to the briefing. That's what the guys were asking. Do you know the civil-law agreement in which the briefing is registered? I don't know the deal. I think it's too long... or I don't know enough. Third question. How can you say that there will be savings, since the so-called. The chimney law assumed a maximum of 11 times the average wage in the economy, and here it was assumed 30 times. Fourth question. Aren't you overreacting to the term... Don't you interpret misinterpretation of abuse, as you put it, from an enormous salary in terms of savings? Another question. Clearly, during this review of the ministries or the audit, as it was called, which is bullshit... Are you also confirming that there have been many cases, tens of millions of cases of pathology or abuse, as you said? I ask after 7 months: how many laws have you filed for the refund of wrongly collected amounts to insurance companies for improper performance of their duties? After all, the state cancelled the director of the mine, which means they found a legal reason why he could not function, and what is more, he charged PLN 1.5 million in terms of huge economic losses. How many lawsuits have you filed, how many appearances have you filed with insurance companies?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u105	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u106	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I don't know if I remember all the questions... First question. Whether or not the word "control" appears does not matter. Does it matter, Senator, or... What's the sign of control? Whether or not there's an ability to vote. It's not a paper check. It's an ability to vote. Mr. Senator, it's obvious to me that if I can vote something out, I have control. I'm still answering that question. I think from a legal point of view, this case is clean. As regards civil law contracts containing checks I already have some experience in life and work, and as a professor of extraordinary economic law I answer you that I have seen several such contracts with my own eyes. So that I confirm that I have seen such agreements, because, I understand, that was the senator's question. So I answer. : Yes, I saw it. It's not... [[Maybe it was compensation, not debriefing.]] No. But, Senator, if you'll excuse me, I know what I saw and remember... So it's really not weird. As for the lawsuit, here's what I'm gonna say. Well, it's not the State Treasury Minister who's running the lawsuit or the notice of suspicion of an offence for an action against the company. Because, as I understand it, the senator asked Only companies do that. I have knowledge that such speeches are addressed both to the courts and to the prosecution. If the senator wishes, of course we are willing to give you this information in writing, because the senator, to tell you the truth, surprised me with this question in a quantitative sense, and I wouldn't want to lie to you, so I won't give you a number. [[Thank you very much. Please...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u107	Thank you. The senator is asking for an answer in writing. And Senator Robert Dowhan is asking a question. [[I'm dropping the question, Mr. Marshal.]] Thank you. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u108	Mr. Marshal! Minister! In order for you not to have a split to this extent, I would like to say that I am on the side of this bill and the questions are not directed towards the bill, so to speak, to overthrow, just to clarify certain things and certain concepts which have fallen from the Minister's mouth or are in the bill. Now, let's get to the questions. Minister, will it be possible to conclude a management agreement with entities operating in the framework of this bill? That's the first question. Because we have a contract with the person, but can we choose a company that runs a business and make a contract with her to run a particular company? Will that be possible? That's the first question. Two. Since the Minister is talking about savings, I understand that you have made a measure of the number of different entities to which this law will apply. Could we hear what the number of entities is? And the smallest ones and the biggest ones? Totally. I don't mean to say exactly what the letter says. And the third question, Minister. I'm very interested in that, because in your statement... I will also say that I am appalled by what concerns the salary that the Minister is giving. What I think about the movement in this direction is good. Just explain it to me so I'm clear. Or 2 million zlotys... Of course, there may be more as there are very good results. But let's say 2 million zlotys in the biggest company. Is this 2 million PLN, according to the Minister's assessment, in accordance with the constitutional principle of social justice? That's all I want to hear. I'm asking your opinion on this.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u109	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u110	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Well, maybe from the end... I'll answer you this: not two, one and a half at most, and one and a half... [[Is this about justice?]] ...is far more fair than six. Besides, I don't think, well, social justice can be translated into precise parameters. We did what we could to get as close as possible to one. As for the number of entities we've considered... Certainly in the first place, it is about 400 entities supervised by the Minister of the Treasury. But please bear in mind that a significant proportion of these entities are entities supervised by other ministers and they have also been taken into account. Let us also remember that many of these entities are those that are headed by very large groups of capital. The bill says there's real control. Yes? So it goes down, so to speak, actually to the ground floor of the companies in the capital groups. I'll say this: we've analysed a group of 400 entities, that's hard data. And below it's only gonna be cheaper.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u111	Thank you. [[Excuse me, Mr. Marshal...]] Yes? [[The Minister hasn't answered one question yet.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u112	Oh, the first question, I'm sorry... [[The first question was whether it would be possible to conclude management agreements with entities.]] Mr. Senator, I think this bill only applies to salaries, which means it doesn't impose... This bill talks about salaries, so it doesn't impose a formula. It doesn't impose formula. He's talking about the contract and the pay, so the case is, I think, open.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u113	Thank you very much. Senator Waldemar Sługocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I follow the question of Senator Jan Dobrzyński, who inspired me to formulate this question. That is, the question relating to the issue of the prohibition of competition and the possibility of receiving a 12-month remuneration. You say, Minister, that this is how you want to prevent some information from coming out in an unauthorized manner, but also to make amends to an outstanding manager. It's about not looking for a new place to work in competing companies. So my question is, isn't there a logical contradiction here? If this is such an outstanding character, such an outstanding manager, then why do you want... why would anyone potentially fire him? Or just to pay him a 12-month salary? You also said, Minister, that I was reluctant to Of course, you used other words, you wrote such a note about the possibility of paying a 12-month salary. My question is: if this is only an option to pay this salary, who will decide, and on what basis will decide, that the person will receive a 12-month salary and not another person? Don't you think there should be clear, transparent rules that would exclude or minimize the discretion of anyone who would decide on this issue? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u115	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u116	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, Mr. Senator, if I remember the text of the bill, there is a maximum six-month ban on competition, not a 12-month ban on competition. If you don't mind, sir... I repeat: a maximum of 3 months is a notice period. I think it would be good for all of us to admit that in a situation where someone is acting as a manager and is cancelled, it would be a good thing for us to have a period of civilised delegation of responsibility. This is serious business, it's not, I'm sorry, a worker's handing over a lawn mower to an employee B, it's a company. So this period of up to 3 months, the period of notice, we consider to be quite important precisely from the point of view of the delegation of responsibilities. Please also note that the possibility to pay for the prohibition of competition, which you are talking about, does not appear immediately, but only after a period which we considered to be a period when a member of the board could acquire certain sensitive information about the company, i.e. Only after 3 months of work. We want to avoid situations that happened in the past when someone entered the company for 2 weeks, then was released, and then received a benefit of PLN 2 million. Mr. Senator, answering a question about who will decide... Of course, they will decide the supervisory boards, because this is the competent corporate body. But independent of this, the Minister of the Treasury plans to issue a set of good practices in this area. They'll be creative, I'd say, supplementing the bill. Let's put it this way: not everything is fit for legal matter. We did not want to complicate the legal text with specific regulations, so there will be good practices. We're at the final stage of their development. And as for the ban on competition... It is so that if a company operates in a competitive sector, we obviously think it is right to protect the company from going to competition with the former CEO. He doesn't have to be perfect, he doesn't have to be top manager, he just has information. That is why we must pay for the prohibition of competition, to a limited extent, to protect our companies. But please note that what we want to avoid is a situation where members of boards of uncompetitive companies, of course, are paid in uncompetitive quotes because of the prohibition of competition. Because let's say this: if someone is president of Polish Electropower Networks, and it is a statutory monopoly in Poland, then I do not really see competition here. If someone is the head of the Polish Railway Lines, I don't see any competition here either. But such situations have happened. So we, I believe, are civilizing, normalizing this process in comparison with the present state of things or with the present state of things. But no law, no law, will guarantee that people will always be well, according to the spirit of this law, and be right to act. I mean, if that were the case, this world would probably be different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u117	Thank you, Minister. And I ask you to ask Senator Jan Maria Jackowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u118	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have this question: how does this bill apply to this bill, which we discussed at the end of the year in the Senate, namely the one about preventing practices... that is, these unjustified briefings or those high, controversial briefings? That's the first question. And question two. Did the situation presented in your question by Marshal Borusewicz mean that you were the president of Lotus? Doesn't fit in with the matter decided in that law six months ago? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u119	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u120	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Senator, I do not hide that the draft law is largely in line with those solutions which the Senate adopted at the beginning of its term of office, because the periods are somewhat adapted to those time periods that Parliament has designated are adapted in the sense that, in fact, where this taxation already occurs, which makes it pointless for us to say so... We, in short, do not actually have it here anymore. So these periods generally coincide. As regards the question concerning President Pietryszyn, I answer that unfortunately the case of President Pietryszyn does not fit into these changes, and that is because the law concerns companies with a majority share of the State Treasury. To be honest, I thank the senator very much for that question. This situation is precisely proof that if we want to make sense of the remuneration, we have to go through a control criterion, not a capital participation criterion, because it actually has better results. For example, PZU is a company with a minority share of the State Treasury, but controlled. Today it is not subject to the chimney law, today it is not subject to the amendment of the tax law, but this law, which we are working on here, will be subject to it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u121	Thank you, but I was asking about PZU, not Lotus. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Treasury Filip Grzegorczyk: I talked about PZU.]] Okay, okay. Senator Jan Dobrzyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u122	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. 1.5 million isn't social justice either, Minister. I'm judging you for about 17 grand gross, and that's probably what you have 12 grand. And how's that up to $1.5 million, especially since you're overseeing the ones we're talking about today? So here we can't talk about so-called social justice, since people work for 1,000, 1 thousand 200, 1 thousand 500 net, Minister. So there's nothing to talk about. I have a question for you, too. You used words in your speech: manager, manager's job is a risk. I'll remind you, Minister, that we're talking about managers, but basically They are often members of the board, from 3 to 5 or 6 members of the board, and they are also vice presidents and supervisory boards, they are also lower directors. So what's this manager risking, Minister? And has any manager been punished for his work for 25 years if it has been misjudged?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u123	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u124	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! I'll say this: if the senator doesn't want to call it close-up to the idea of social justice, then I'll call it. It's at least a cut of the most painful pathology from this point of view. [[We've begun our journey, Minister, yes.]] Yeah, but as everyone knows, the march starts with a million little steps. Let this bill be the first of them. As for my salary, the senator will allow me not to address this issue... [[Senator Jan Dobrzyński: Did I shoot him, Minister?)]] [[Voice from the room: Too much.]] Thank you very much for your appreciation, but I will still not address this issue. I understand that government officials are paid under another law and I am not the one who has an initiative in this field, I am sticking to the law on government departments. And as for the manager's risk, maybe the speech was awkward. When I was talking about risks, I meant that unlike an employee, the manager can be dismissed from his job at any time, because that's how the code of commercial companies clearly says. It's not that easy with an employee. And that's all I was referring to. About the coincidences... You don't know a day or an hour here, although there are pathological phenomena in employee relations, and that too needs to be taken into account. Of course, such cases of punishment were undoubtedly, although the practice of trading shows that the greatest penalty that a manager is being punished is simply its cancellation, non- discharge and, if appropriate, any difficulties in paying those benefits which, in accordance with a civil law contract or contract, are due to him or her as a result of an appeal. [[Senator Jan Dobrzyński: I agree with you here.]] In fact, cases for damage to the company occur relatively rarely, but maybe actions taken by the current boards of companies of the State Treasury will result in such cases. I think, in a way, yes. This information will, of course, be given in writing. But I don't want to prejudic anything. Besides, please remember that a large group of these companies are public companies, so I wouldn't want to say half a word too much not to affect the stock odds... [[Senator Jan Dobrzyński: On the stock exchange.]] Exactly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u125	Thank you, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Treasury Filip Grzegorczyk: Thank you.]] Now you're Senator Władysław Komarnicki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u126	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. If Senator Dobrzyński wants to arrange a raise package for the Minister, I will sign this, Senator, because I also believe that the Minister cannot earn less than the manager. [[Senator Jan Dobrzyński: We collect signatures, Mr. Senator.]] Minister, I have a question. Senator Czarnobaj asked similar questions, but I took the answer as not quite clear. I will repeat this question in my version, so that you may be kind enough to explain this to me. Minister, will this law protect against the conclusion of contracts for the operation of companies of the State Treasury or local government in the form of a contract with the company, i.e. with a natural person conducting an economic activity that has registered as a company? Will such a method of avoiding a reduction in wages be eliminated here?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u127	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u128	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! This law does not regulate this issue, nor does it regulate the chimney law. She's just talking about payback. However, please accept from me the assurance that the Ministry of the Treasury is experiencing quite difficult but already advanced work on the State Treasury Package. Because you all admit the senators that today this regulation... And it's not some party's fault, it's just the state of things that there are old laws that aren't adapted, and it's also a question that needs to be leaned over. But this law, which is the first step in rationalising the management of the State Treasury's assets, concerns the level of remuneration and method of remuneration, not the question of whether it can be done only by a natural person or not. It's outside of this bill in my opinion. [[Thank you very much. I'm very glad, Minister, that...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u129	Mr. Senator, what... [[I have a second question, Mr. Marshal.]] Excuse me, but there's a line. I'm putting you on the list. I understand you mean... [[Just one question. Can I ask you something?]] ...or do we already know how this bill will be passed. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Treasury Filip Grzegorczyk: No. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, ……]] Good. I understand that's the question you wanted to ask the senator. I'll put you on the list. Okay? [[Thank you, Mr. Marshal.]] And Senator Piotr Florek:
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u130	Minister! Mr. Marshal! I would like to make one more point here about legislation. Mr. Minister probably knows this bill well, I suspect almost by heart. I will therefore ask the Minister. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 14 states that the Law of 3 March 2000 on the remuneration of persons managing certain entities is to be amended. And so in the article. 1 points (4) to (7) are deleted. That's what Art says. 14. That's the article. 1 of the 2000 Act, paragraphs 4 and 7 are repealed. I have a comparative text in front of me, a bill on the remuneration of people running certain entities. Her art. 1 says that the law applies to: state-owned enterprises, state-owned organisational units... And in point 3, we have self-government units with legal personality, which are not simultaneously the entities referred to in points 4, 6 and 7. But this amendment deletes those points. I have a question about this: is this an oversight? Do I have to file an amendment to the bill? Because we're talking about something that doesn't exist. Maybe this matter was raised at the committee meeting. I'm not a member of the committee, so I don't know, but I've noticed that there's some inaccuracies here.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u131	Thank you, Senator. Please. [[This is comparative material.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u132	Mr. Senator, I'd have to have that second line... You're overestimating me by thinking I know the bill by heart. If we could get an answer to that question at the end... I'll consult with the directors. [[Good. Well, maybe we can get back to that question at the end.]] I don't think it's a legislative error, but...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u133	The point is, isn't there just a gap? Senator Przemysław Terminski, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u134	Minister, about the questions of Senator Rulewski and those claims which the Treasury may lodge, I inform you as an insurance specialist that the Treasury as a shareholder may make claims against the cancelled members of the board for the losses it suffered as a shareholder. I would point out that, as such, the company is not interested in this because the present, former and future members of the board are riding in the same cart called one common OC policy. Therefore, I do not expect companies to suddenly start making massive claims against former board members, but shareholders can and should. Honestly, I'm expecting you to detect irregularities that you're going to do. I'm going back to the questions. The Act assumes maximum forks depending on the scale of employment, on turnover, on assets. I have a question: what kind of protection do you provide against the circumvention of this law? It's the so-called. Cascade salaries, quite common in companies controlled by the State Treasury. Let's just say in my mother's company, I'm officially earning what God commands. PGE example: 1 million 100 last year And in a daughter's company, the other number, the third number, the fifth number, and if it's registered abroad, it's in Germany, Norway or Sweden... And it turns out that the remuneration, which nominally can be 1 million, according to your proposals, with these maximum forks, let's say, 1,5 million Suddenly, it's 4 million, 5 million or more. Is there any kind of security here you're expecting? That's the first question. And my second question. There are thousands of companies in which the State Treasury shares directly or indirectly. Will there be any specific criteria for which of these companies you will take on this fork and expect from their supervisory authorities if you have an impact on those supervisory authorities... And here I am going back to the construction of cascade companies. Are you going to define in particular these companies, or are you going to do this en block and this is going to apply to all companies in which the Treasury has shares, even half of the shares? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u135	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u136	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! As for the first point, thank you very much for this. It's true. I think I will give these suggestions to a colleague who is directly responsible for this issue in the management. Well, thank you very much. As regards the issue of cascade remuneration, please note that we are of course aware of this problem, but also note that the cascade remuneration is eliminated in such a way that the law clearly states that even if a member of the management board of a company covered by this law sits on the boards of subsidiaries, he cannot collect remuneration for it. And this, of course, is level one. At the same time, each member of the board will have the so-called KPI, i.e. the results to be achieved. They are all, except for one, included in the open directory. Apart from one, and this one is the case: the rules resulting from this law should be introduced in the subsidiaries. Therefore, if a member of the board or members of the board do not introduce rules under this law in the whole group, then simply... Well, then there's no discussion about the bonus at all. Because the introduction of these rules is the only so-called mandatory KPI. He is so formulated precisely because we were aware of this problem and that we might encounter him. That's the answer today.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u137	Thank you. Senator Jan Rulewski is asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u138	Yes, thank you, Mr. Marshal. I want to continue with Senator Terminski's story, but maybe not the cascade case, just the case you raised. Well, in the provisions of the article. 13 it is said that it is true that financial benefits cannot be derived primarily, although others are not mentioned, right? For sitting on supervisory boards or institutions of subsidiaries or related companies, but only up to 50% ... In other words, art. 13 says: persons holding single-member companies of the Treasury and companies in which their share exceeds 50% of the share capital... So you can sit in companies with smaller shares, and you can benefit from it. But that's not what I'd like to talk about. I'd like to talk, sir, about an idea that you've given us here, and I think it's about social justice. Do you think it could be called social justice, that at a time when the PiS government comes out with such an offensive in terms of control and reduction of wages... Oh, that's a less important question. [[All right, here we go.]] But the Minister is busy... And he's not gonna interrupt for me. Excuse me... [[But ask me a question.]] Minister, with such a moral offensive, you also come out and justify it with the concept of social justice, and at the same time several prominent politicians include functions in such companies with grossly contrary suggestions that you make here. Kaśków, Jasiński. 200 thousand in KGHM. Don't you feel a moral defect about that? Do you have the courage to defend these positions in social justice?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u139	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u140	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! As far as your people are concerned, according to what we have been talking about, their wages are lower than their wages... Apart from PKO, where, according to my knowledge, the salary has not yet been paid I think it's still limited. So in those companies that you pointed out, these salaries are lower than those of the predecessors, as I said, on average about 20%. What the... [[But is that according to the spirit of the bill?]] This is in line with the trend that follows the law. But after this bill has been passed, these salaries will be even lower. So I just don't see a collision here. Today, the remuneration in PKO is as much as it is, and this is the remuneration inherited from the corporate decisions of the predecessors, but under this law it will be significantly lower. I gave you an example of yesterday's and today's remuneration of PKO BP president On the basis of this law, this remuneration will be low. This will also apply to vice-presidents or members of the bank's board of directors. I believe that the fact that first the decision of the Minister of the Treasury has been reduced in remuneration is proof of the good and consistent, integral intentions of the Minister of the Treasury. This law will allow you to approach this issue comprehensively, it will simply be a second step, not a random step, but a systemic step. And I think we all want to act more systemically than at random.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u141	Thank you, Minister. Senator Zbigniew Silence.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u142	Minister, I would like to ask you, on what basis have these salaries, which are shocking to us, been shaped so far? The law does not repeal the specific provisions that previously regulated this matter, and I therefore ask whether this was done under the act on the remuneration of persons managing certain legal entities. It's right now changes are made by repealing certain points concerning individuals where the share of the State Treasury, or self-government, was more than 50% shares Was there any other regulation? If these were the regulations I'm talking about paying the managers, then the chimney law provided for a maximum of six times the average wage, and here we introduce a fifteenfold, which is basically not to say that this conversion is decreasing. That's it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u143	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u144	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator, I agree with the senator, but not entirely. Why? Because it's not... the notion that the chimney bill introduced a six-fold limit is true, but it's not all true because the chimney bill was either six-fold or no limit. And what does six times or no limit mean? Six times or no limit I mean, no limit. What were the reasons behind the previous management of the State Treasury regarding the departure from the limit for the absence of a limit, i.e. contracts? I do not know the answer to this question, it is difficult for me to speak for my predecessors, but the fact is that in very many cases, when the limit should probably work, it was simply removed from this limit. Those derogations were massive. Companies in the hard coal mining sector KHW, Coal Company, Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa, Węglokox... All these companies should be in the limit, and they weren't in the limit, they were just, so to speak, on the contract. What was the direction? I think they were discreet decisions and they weren't considered... There are no material signs of going one way or the other at the Ministry. I believe that these were arbitrary decisions. We do not introduce an increased limit, we really cut this limit, which I already emphasized in the introduction, and we introduce specific parameters of companies. We want to avoid the situation that we consider unreasonable, that in the same chimney we will find ourselves in the same chimney, without prejudice to anyone and the president of the PKS, and the President of Lotus, who are theoretically in the same group, if we consider the chimney law. It's cutting down these highest chimneys, the highest wages, but also rationalising the whole system.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u145	Thank you, Minister. Senator Władysław Komarnicki, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u146	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, thank you for calming me down by saying that the team is working. I have this question: as an entrepreneur, I worked in the private sector for 27 years in various companies. I was a founder and a member of the board of directors, even in stock companies. Hence my question, Minister, which is an expression of concern. Did you, on the basis of private sector models, in other words commercial terms, include such things in the criteria proposed here for selecting board members or supervisory boards? I've been through this, too. Like qualifications, experience, selection procedures, e.g. appropriate competitions or with the help of some headhunter companies who are professionally looking for the right people? Since you often talk about depoliticizing these positions, about the fact that you want people to be there first and foremost competent and not party clients, is it then the right criteria for selecting these people, and should the wages also correspond to the commercial sector? Are such conditions met? Did public-owned companies really ensure that these criteria were applied? Because that's the essence of the case. This is a huge sector and these are very responsible positions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u147	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u148	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! These criteria, which the senator is asking about, of course, are of a market nature and are regulated in the relevant legal acts. Mr. Senator was talking about headhunters, etc. Only that we already know from history such cases when a headhunter company was hired, she gave her recommendations when it came to choosing the best candidate for a given position, but for some strange reasons this recommendation did not meet with the approval of the minister, so it was still chosen according to the minister's expectations, not according to the recommendation of the headhunter company. So if it were to look like this, I guess it would be pointless spending money and that's why we actually did. we do not provide for the use of headhunter companies. As for companies with a majority share of the State Treasury, these are matters concerning what qualifications should be held, governed by the Commercialisation and Privatisation Act and by the Regulation to that Law. And as for companies with minority interest in the State Treasury, believe me, there are no rules. Well, the state hadn't brought them in before, and we haven't gotten there yet, but give us a chance. Please also accept the assurance that the largest companies operate in the supervisory boards. nomination committees. These are serious corporate decisions. However, for political reasons, the state will still have an opinion on this subject. Whatever I say. I would like to say that it works in a corporate sense, and it is not arbitrary. There are appropriate qualification procedures. I also stress one more important issue, which Minister Jackiewicz always emphasizes, which I am only a deputy. Well, Minister Jackiewicz clearly says that he takes responsibility for nominations in the Treasury companies, because he cannot imagine the implementation of the policy of the PiS government by people who do not share views in line with the ruling majority. It is not difficult to manage companies by means of opposition, it is difficult to implement a government program with the help of people who are openly on the opposite side of the political scene. Minister Jackiewicz has repeatedly emphasized this and takes responsibility for nominations. That's all I can say about it. Of course, I think it's pretty clear. [[Thank you for those sincere words you said, quoting your minister. Now I understand...]] Excuse me, these are the words from the press interviews. I didn't discover America here, Senator. [[Okay, Mr. Minister. And are these political criteria included in any law?]] No, they're not.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u149	Thank you. Senator Przemysław Terminski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u150	Minister, I was very interested in what you said, and personally I have really huge doubts that you will be able to introduce cascade salaries in the area of foreign companies, for example... The current situation is that there are two states of law. Or we have a Polish president of a Polish company, who also serves as a foreign company And, as I understand, through certain pressures here in Poland, it can be pressured not to charge wages there. Or there is such a fact that abroad, I do not know, in the United States, Canada, Chile, Norway or Pakistan, we have Polish managers with management functions there. And it's a little hard to force them to earn within these limits for a prosaic reason: there's just 10 times higher wages. Objectively, they're higher. And now my question is: do you also want to regulate the remuneration of such persons when it comes to subsidiaries of Polish entities, but located abroad? That's the first question. And the second question that came to me here, a little in the context of the discussion, was a little inspired by other senators here: please tell me whether the acquisition of 20% of the stock exchange company by the entity controlled by the state today, e.g. by the Association of Investment Funds of PZU, the first on the shore, which is nothing unusual... the acquisition of these 20% Under the Commercial Companies Code, you are entitled to appoint a member of the Supervisory Board, vote in groups, etc. I'm sure the Minister knows what I'm talking about. In such a situation, will they also enter into the provisions of the Act in question, as it were, from the vending machine and expect that the remuneration for managers in such a type of company, however acquired on the stock market, will also be limited? I'm talking here. Okay, I'm gonna stress this. . about quite private companies that were bought by way of a public offer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u151	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u152	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Firstly, regardless of where the company is located, there is a control criterion. And either that's what I'm going to say, in the organ, in the general assembly of this company, some resolutions will be made, or they won't be carried out. And when they're moved, it's a checkup. Secondly, you're talking about grossly different salaries. But we have subsidiaries not only in Canada, where these salaries are higher, but also in Ukraine, where wages are significantly lower. So, as a rule, there are forks. And if there's actually a clear signal, a clear reason to withdraw from the law... Well, that's why we have a safety valve in the article. 4. And that is, I stress, the advantage of the bill, not its disadvantage. Because you know perfectly well that everything can't be settled. Life is always richer. That's why you need this valve. And that proves the legitimacy of the legislator. So much for the first question. And the second question, if the senator would like to remind you... [[It concerned whether any of the entities controlled by the State Treasury would acquire...]] Oh, okay, I remember. Thank you very much. Well, Mr. Senator, let me say this: if the State Treasury includes a package that gives control, then of course the company becomes a company controlled by the State Treasury. Well, it's also that the Treasury... We look at companies in such a historical way that they've always been... and therefore they're controlled... Less and less, but still. And you're asking about the situation of a new, relatively new, which is the expansion of the State Treasury domain. Well, the answer is this: if the State Treasury acquires control, surely such a company starts to fall under the scope of the Act. It's a fact. Let's just not look at such a company as a company again quite private. Because if it's controlled by the State Treasury, then how private is it? [[It's controlled at 20%.]] No. He's either controlling himself or he's not. [[In the case of distributed shares, 20% is sometimes more than 50%.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u153	All right, gentlemen, we'll discuss this in a minute. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Treasury Filip Grzegorczyk: Exactly.]] Well, of course in the case of a distributed shareholder... [[Voice from the room: Fully agreed, there are no disputes here.]] Senator Jerzy Czerwinski, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u154	Mr. Marshal! Minister! In the scope of this law, among other things, there are wound-ups. Tell me why you didn't take the role of a proxy, for example. On purpose or by omission? What was the ratio legis of not including this?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u155	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u156	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! The Liquidators have been taken into account because today the issue of liquidation salaries is regulated. We wanted to introduce such regulations on the remuneration of liquidations, which will be motivating from the point of view, I would say, sensible at the time of the completion of liquidation processes. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are meeting at the Ministry with a situation where liquidation is actually a great source of liquidation for several years. Therefore, the liquidation plan is intended to provide a relatively low remuneration and a liquidation bonus within the deadline. In short, the winding-up is to be paid not to carry out the liquidation and to terminate the liquidation as soon as possible. Meanwhile, the proxy is a proxy, this is a special kind of proxy, a sales proxy. It's not an oversight, it's just not a member of the organ. We didn't discuss it, I admit, it wasn't discussed, but at the moment, I don't find a reason very quickly to regulate procurators' salaries. In the end, the proxy operates on the basis of a contract with the company, i.e. whether the procura is awarded by the management board. Mr. Senator, if you don't mind, we will consider this, and if we actually come to the conclusion that this should be done, then we will simply bring in a proposal to amend the law in this respect. Today, as I say, we are open to criticism, but we would also like to check the act in practice, and after some time, if necessary, simply correct it. As I am saying, the issue you are referring to is new, which is why today I would rather send it back for analysis than decide whether or not the government thinks it would be legitimate. I don't have a ticket for that either. We'd like to think about it first.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u157	Thank you very much, Minister. You asked Senator Przemysław Terminski for the question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u158	I promise this will be the last question, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Treasury Filip Grzegorczyk: I don't believe it.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] I'm sorry to bother you so much, but there's a minute limit. Minister, let me say this: I admire what you are saying, and if you actually manage to do this, reduce salaries in foreign companies and eliminate cascade wages, then I don't know, I invite you to a big dinner, really. It will be a great success for you. No one's ever done that before, but managers have always found a way around it. My question is as follows, I ask them in the context of Senator Silence's question. This law is not repealed by the former chimney law. Therefore, today we have a situation which is not a legal duality. I have a list here prepared by my employees, from which, for example. According to the new law, the CEO of Energa made 1.4 million last year, and according to the new law, he could make 100,000 more. The president of the Lotus group made less than 1.5 million, he could make more than 1.5 million. There's a 5% difference. According to these records, I'm talking about maximum values. Polish Energy Group: the President's salary amounted to 1 million 100 thousand, at least officially, while at the moment it is 1 million 540 thousand. Not to know why, but the president of PGNiG is taking money. Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa: the president under the new regulations could earn almost twice what he earned in 2014. Here I have data for 2014, because for 2015 not all have been published yet. What's my point? Minister, please tell me, if we have two laws, on the one hand, let's call it an old chimney, in respect of which you said that the remuneration was granted arbitraryly, although a moment ago you said that there is also a small safety valve in this new law, that in case of which it can also be arbitraryly... Anyway, tell me who will decide whether to use the old chimney law, i.e. to arbitraryly determine the remuneration, or the new chimney law, where there are limits, which are higher than in the old chimney law, but the safety valves are potentially smaller. Who's gonna decide that? Do you have any guidelines in this regard, or is there a general guideline?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u159	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u160	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator, in my opinion, what you have pointed out is not a state of legal duality, i.e. After the entry into force of this law, the chimney law will no longer include commercial companies in the scope of the subject matter, and therefore there will be no duality here. Maybe he's... [[Why won't it be?]] Because commercial companies fall out of the scope of the individual chimney law. Dualism will be elsewhere, but I won't tell the senator where. As far as remuneration is concerned, our intention, of course, will be to introduce this law much faster than it follows from the provisions of this law. We have given the deadline far enough to make sure that the opposition does not attack us, that we do not implement the provisions of the Act, but we will want to do so much earlier before the deadline, which follows from the Act. And that's definitely what we want to do. But I am very appealing for one thing: let's break the philosophy of the chimney law... Because everyone... maybe not all of them, but a large part of the state approaches it as a chimney law, that if there's a ceiling, everyone understands it in such a way that there will be a ceiling, and that's exactly what no one promises. We believe that these ceilings will be differentiated. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator, if you know better than I do, okay, you have the right to say that. But I am able to actually invite you to a good dinner to prove to you that these salaries will not be maximum, although, of course, large dinners in my case are not advisable, because I am fighting them. So much for that.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u161	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Voice from the room: Anyway, at dinner you'll be...]] I ask you to ask Senator Adam Gawada a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u162	Mr. Marshal! Minister! In order to ask questions briefly, I will refer to these two cases. It is the 2 largest companies of the coal company, at the moment Poland Górnicza Group, but I am referring to the Coal Company and Jastrzębska Węglowa Company in 2013 and 2015 i.e. during the period when the restructuring process was announced, the repair process of these two large companies, which, as we know, was not carried out. Can the Minister tell you how the salaries of the main managers, the presidents and the checks were then allocated or recognised to these presidents, and how the remunerations in these two companies are now taking place in these two companies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u163	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u164	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Mr. Senator! The problem with wages in the company, the Coal Company... Here is a problem with informing the High House about this, because, firstly, it is a company under the responsibility of the Minister of Energy, and secondly, it is not a public company, so I am not comfortable with the announcement of such information. I don't know, but I can't say. Here's what I'm gonna say. These were monthly salaries going undoubtedly into tens of thousands of zlotys, and they exceeded... already hit the other half hard. The briefings may not have been as high as in the case of Orlen, but they were very decent checks, at least at the level of over a year's wages. Today... I think the right address for this question is the Minister of Energy. I can say that today the authorities of the Coal Company are working on the basis of the chimney bill, but in the chimney, which means that today I think that contracts have been discontinued, so it is difficult for me to answer that question. But this example of coal companies is an excellent example of how these solutions are justified. Because, according to this law, we want to pay for the effects, not for the fact that there is a function and mostly participates, so to speak, in the celebration of barbaric mines in 11 mines. Ladies and gentlemen, the point is, and please pay attention to this, I appeal to all your senators that we want to pay relatively little for the fact that we are After all, 50% of this salary is a bonus. You are talking about the max of the max, but half of it is a highly uncertain bonus. After all, half of this remuneration is strictly defined parameters that this board is going to achieve. Ladies and gentlemen, if such a system were used in mining companies, then when mining companies went into contracts, probably today these companies would be elsewhere; only that in these systems they were mainly paid for being, and the bonus was some kind of a thing. Yeah, a nice addition. Nobody paid for the results there. And we just want to bet on the results, which is, let me put it briefly, we say this: show me, man, first what you've done, and we'll pay you even the second amount, but first show me. And that's mostly the purpose of this bill. So please do not show the global salary, look at the basic salary, and this is significantly lower. I'm sorry I can't tell you exactly...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u165	Senator Gazweda, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u166	I'll be brief, in addition. I know that the Minister cannot provide such information, but the percentage comparison or any such estimates of the previous and current remunerations show the situation actually being discussed. And my supplementary question is this... In fact, I can say that in previous years, the absence of this link has caused that huge wages did not go hand in hand with the effects and we have several billion losses in these companies. Today, this law regulates it. Minister, tell me how percentage in mining companies, if you have that knowledge. This remuneration will be reduced. I stress: percentage, because I know it can't be said in quota terms. I know these amounts, of course, but I ask this question so that I can say something specific here in the Senate, namely that this pathological system has caused huge losses. And if the law discussed today were to function then, it would certainly help speed up the repair and restructuring process, mainly in mining and raw materials companies.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u167	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u168	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, Mr. Senator, I think that if we take into account the level of wages we find and compare with the level that is the result of the bill, then the percentage is, I think, about 40 to 50%. less. And the gap, the missing amount, that's what could possibly be paid if there were results. So for the good morning, this is, I'd say, about 40%. .50% less. But please don't take my word for it, because here the minister of energy is the minister of energy, and I'm just talking about some respect.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u169	Okay, thank you very much, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Treasury Filip Grzegorczyk: Thank you. I'm gonna...]] Minister, wait a minute, I have one more question. And I hope that's not just a rhetorical question. It is related to working in this type of companies of the Treasury of the state of significant politicians of the governing group. Will you be able to apply to such politicians the principle you were just talking about? I'm not going to exchange personal...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u170	Can I turn the question around? I would like to ask which minister of treasure, energy, development Because I assume that this is what the marshal is after, he will have the audacity and the audacity to publish on the subject page of the BIP information on why he went beyond the bill and gave a higher salary. In my opinion, transparency is the best guarantee of decency. So that I think it's a matter of the right instrumentarium and actually a lot of decency, not of fighting or opposing. I, too, do not think that anyone who has gone to the board of directors of these companies is aware of the work that is going on in terms of wages. And I will say, Mr. Marshal, like this. There is no forced labour in our country. All the more so, there is no forced labour in our country in the companies of the Treasury. Either managers agree with the salaries offered by the majority shareholder, or they simply work in discomfort, which means they don't agree quietly, or they stop being managers. Nobody's holding anybody down. Really.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u171	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Treasury Filip Grzegorczyk: Thank you very much.]] I take it this is also a declaration from you? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Treasury Filip Grzegorczyk: Yes, but I am only a Deputy Minister.]] Thank you very much. There are no more questions. And now we're going through... I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to provide written answers to questions asked by Senator Bogdan Borusewicz and Senator Jan Rulewski. I'm opening a discussion. And please take the floor of Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u172	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! After 16 years It's a long time too late. We begin to work on a new law, in short I say, a chimney, only that it is no longer called a chimney, but it is called a chimney plus. So to what was a strong income guillotine, a reward 16 years ago, the PiS in government, rapporteurs and the Seym majority adds further remuneration segments As a result, the remuneration limit is increased twice. In the Chimney Act, the maximum limit was 6 average plus possibly 3 annual prizes and 1 for additional benefits which the directors could not collect, only the CEOs of the Boards. The piss doubles it. This is a logical consequence, a consequence of a process in which we first cast our people all companies, funds, agencies, to now raise their wages twice. I'm not lying. The former Member of Kraczkowski received a remuneration for his hard work in the Sejm. 13 thousand PLN. Today he gets 10 times more. Even better was the former Member Mariusz Kaminski, who did not get into the parliament, i.e. starting from the zero position, received several tens of thousands of zlotys in the Polish Defence Holding and, I think, a briefing Although I am unable to verify it because it is hidden from the public, contrary to the principle of transparency. I said 16 years and 16 years too late. I was involved in the consolidation of many projects that broke out in the context of a pay fire in 2000. So I want to confirm that the chimney law was certainly not a masterpiece, on the contrary, it was a bad system act. But after 16 years of work I'm afraid my colleagues, too. We have the right, High Izbo Senack, to expect the PiS government to offer us a good solution. This is a good solution to take into account different interests. Above all, we are talking about the economy, we are not talking about social justice. Social justice can be settled in many ways, Minister, through the tax system, the support system. But it is certainly impossible to enter a company with social justice. This is a combat unit, which is supposed to bring profit and success to the Polish economy. And if anything, there are trade unions and a social fund that is supposed to equalise this social justice or complement it. You're mistaken, Minister. It's like soldiers on the front... like they have to take into account their matrimony needs as well. 16 years ago, the bill, as I say, was actually made under fire conditions. The salaries grew, the councilmen functioned. In addition, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) At the same time, they received 3 salaries in 3 councils and received 3 salaries at the same time. Mayors, city presidents... That fire should have been put out. We managed to put it out, but the problem wasn't solved, which means we're back in the fence with that goat. And we came up with the wrong solution. I'm moving on, Minister, to a solution. This bill is terrible. She is an instructional act, which the generality of the mentioned not best chimney law brings to detail. One example. Here you say in your law or government that if the company, the company, hires up to 10 people, the salary cannot be more than 3 averages in the entrepreneurial group. And if this is a scientific facility where an outstanding professional works and employs even larger professionals, the bill will have to reduce his salary. Because it can't exceed the average value of three. And if there's a crooked CEO whose company will have 9.5 jobs, but in order to get to a higher category, he's gonna hire himself an additional employee to reach a ceiling of 10 jobs and get a higher benefit... This is an example of the fact that this law is extremely bureaucratic. This reminds me of all the opinions about policemen from the period of the Polish People's Republic. I heard you had to paint the lines on the cars to get them to the doorknob. And so it is here. The bill discussed here is to make the Minister happy, but as it will all work in practice, he cannot answer to this day. In addition, the Act contains ventilation valves that allow for such or other situations and behaviours. And Senator Terminski pointed out further possibilities. This law, of course, as I said, raises the current limit from 9 average salaries to 30. Of course, you're right, it's an opportunity. But we've just shown in our questions that it's not an option, that's a fact. That all those nominators who are, as it were, the authors of this bill, or at least the electoral promise, have just raised themselves above measure... The Minister says the Minister of Treasury has reduced Mr Jasinski's salary. I know a different story, but I'm not gonna use anecdotes. Mr Jasiński was certainly very dissatisfied that he did not exceed the mentioned amount of 30 average salary and was to receive 50 average salary. So that practice doesn't match the theory. If you combine these two laws, then... I admit to a mistake, actually not being able to solve the problem. There is one methodical error in the currently discussed and in the chimney law. The issue of the role of supervisory boards, both in the chimney law and in the one discussed today, is not resolved. The supervisory boards, as a representative of the state, as we all know, are not just politically controlled... Although politicians can also be very honest and represent the interests of the state. And among others. Mr Jasinski should be reduced by such a policy from the supervisory board. The supervisory board is located and constructed so that there are just a few hours of meetings, with a rich dinner served, and, of course, with political support. This law does not solve the problem of ownership supervision, the supervision that takes place in public companies. This law, contrary to your claim, indeed discriminates against state-owned companies because it decrees remuneration at a much lower level than in competing private companies. We didn't solve this problem in 2000, because, as I say, we put out a fire. But it is not an excuse for the Minister to remain in such a position that the economy for which the State is responsible is discriminated. And to a large extent, it is mainly through the movement of professionals. It is discriminated against not only in terms of wages, but also in terms of the ability to obtain these professionals. There was a statement here, which we propose in the amendment, that they should be professionals, not social justice people. At least they're supposed to be professionals. But it's not enough for them to be professionals. Fortunately, Poland already has tens of thousands. These must be the best people, because to manage holding companies like PGNiG, Orlen, you have to be a higher-class specialist than bank professionals. And this bill doesn't create that possibility. They're just talking about hiring people, and I think that PGNiG should be run by some company, some company, a team of people, connected in different ways, to get the best results. Widely known practice as early as 2000: competitions or offers. Where do we find it in this bill? The Minister says we're working on it. This bill will be 16 years before you hire companies that will look for the best professionals and not only in Poland, but maybe abroad, because if they are not in Poland, then just like in football you have to look for them abroad or send someone abroad. That's not in this bill. And those famous headhunters... I witnessed a gardening cooperative in France for 3,000 co-operatives, among others. A Pole who was checked from primary school to... [[Mr. Senator, if you'll just recapitulate, we're almost there for ten minutes.]] Ladies and gentlemen, of course, this law is also bureaucratic, because it says, unfortunately, I immediately reserve 5 more minutes of the average in industrial enterprises. This is a mistake. It wasn't in the chimney law. Because this should refer to the pay situation in the company and not to the GUS communication. Because otherwise, we come to a situation where the president of a prominent research company will have a remuneration actually dictated by the president of the CSO and not by the situation in a given workplace. Thank you very much, but I'll do it again.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u173	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of the senator... [[Jackowski.]] ...Jana Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u174	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I will briefly talk about the Law on the principles of determining the remuneration of persons running certain companies. This law was undoubtedly expected to be socially, because the public has been informed of the various stress situations mentioned by the Minister in his speech over the past years. First of all, the case of one of the presidents of an important company, who was very briefly employed in this position, was known. He was close to Prime Minister Donald Tusk at the time. And then he got a giant million-dollar briefing. Such situations undoubtedly upset the public's opinion and were part of building such a social belief that work not only in the wider public sector, as an official, as a parliamentarian or as an expert, but also in the economic sector dependent on the Treasury is a simple, easy and obvious way to unwarranted And, unfortunately, this conviction is still repenting today, but also the scale of these phenomena shows that this belief, undoubtedly strengthened by the media, is to be covered in some facts, irregularities and pathologies. This does not, of course, mean that each of the presidents or board members in companies owned by the State Treasury received an unjustified remuneration. There are many companies that have applied the chimney bill, Minister, and have tried not to go beyond the framework of this law. We also know very well that there were also such situations that in the large companies of the State Treasury in which the chimney law was applied, there was an opportunity, let's call it, to make up and sit in companies of daughters, grandchildren, granddaughters, or in companies in which the mother company had shares, but membership in supervisory boards could be obtained not according to such rules as are foreseen for companies of the State Treasury, only... It was a completely different measure, and if the revenue or income of people working in this sector were to be combined together, it could actually be said. that the chimney bill was an addition to coffee in relation to the real, actual income of these people. Things like this... Of course, we've been dealing with... I remember when the chimney bill was passed. She was already raising huge discussions in principle at the time. It came out in the laundry, it turned out that these solutions, which then... This was probably the year 2000, in any event it was the term of office of the Parliament in 1997 and it was already pointed out that it was an inefficient tool to regulate this sector. High Izbo, we are in this, I would say, strange situation, because... as I mentioned, to the public, every person who is somehow connected with the public sector is a very high-income person. That is the general belief of the public. The salary of the Undersecretary of State is, apparently, PLN 9,000, 600 gross, which gives more than PLN 6,000 per hand, plus service, plus other ingredients that belong. Officials who have such income are responsible for very important sectors of public life and often supervise institutions where... The revenue of the management of these institutions has repeatedly exceeded the income of those responsible for it. In my previous term of office, I allowed myself to address 36 statements to the heads and heads of those public institutions which are financed by the State Treasury budget. For example, it was about the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers, the Sejm Chancellery, the Senate Chancellery, government agencies, and such institutions. In 34... the idea was that on the basis of the Rb-70 printing, the report submitted to the Ministry of Finance, the average earnings of the entire institution and, in addition, the average earnings of the executives. And as it turned out, After analyzing the material that went down? It turned out that in some agencies, especially in the agricultural sector, the average earnings of directors, vice presidents, executives were, for example. over 25 thousand PLN. More than 25 thousand PLN The average management. As far as the Sejm Office or the Senate Office are concerned, these amounts were far above the salary of a Member, Senator or Undersecretary of State. As far as the various central government institutions are concerned, this average was very diverse. What did that show? This showed that the infamous freeze of wages in the public sector, which I no longer remember, before 8 or 9 years ago, was somewhat fictional. Theoretically, these salaries were frozen, but actually, through various types of allowances, various formal legal solutions, the revenues of the executives grew, while the income of the average employees, those who do not perform managerial functions, remained unchanged. That's the situation we had. It was, I would say, an extreme situation. Imagine that the administrative director, who is responsible for administrative matters, receives monthly income one and a half times higher than the income of the Prime Minister of the Government of the Republic of Poland. Such pathologies have occurred in the sphere of wages in the public sector. The law that we are now looking at, referring to this most spectacular part of this issue, I take as a step in a very good direction. I hope that the government will move towards ordering the situation with regard to remuneration in the public sector, so that it will obviously rationalise it and link it to the degree of responsibility for the specific part of our public reality that the person concerned bears. From this point of view, at the hands of the Minister... I am of the opinion that we are looking forward to further solutions in this area. The point is to stop with some kind of fiction that we have today. In theory, this sphere is regulated, while in official practice, in the practice of the state there are incredible departures in this area. Hence what was included in this Act. [[The meeting is chaired by Marshal Stanisław Karczewski]] [[Mr. Senator, I'm sorry, but time is running out.]] I'll be right with you. To sort out this area, as well as these other areas... The government will try to organize them, although it is aware that for social and other reasons this is certainly not an easy challenge. But this is necessary if we want to live in a state that is a modern and rational state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u175	Thank you very much, Senator. Now please take the floor of Senator Robert Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u176	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister! High Izbo! I'm a little surprised that we've been discussing money a lot lately. Of course, money is a very interesting topic in Poland, especially for the media. It's especially interesting to get paid. Maybe it's because today he's atoning... There's still this jealousy when a neighbor buys a better car or stuff. Maybe the reason is that our society didn't grow up to be... 26 years after the transformation, there are companies that make huge profits and need good managers. I do not want to compare the governments of the Platform and the current rule of law and justice. These things don't happen when it comes to the private sector. The private sector rarely boasts of earnings, but boasts of results. I'd like it to move to us, the Treasury companies. It's good to talk about who made the money, but we're not talking about who did the job, who did the job, who was responsible for what, who made the profits, how much the company hires people, or how her listings on the stock market are related to what was for the predecessors. These are important elements, and we are discussing who to take, who to earn, who to make, who to take, the chimney or any other, or someone to start a company, can work as a natural person, or as a legal person, etc. Well, making money isn't a crime. You have to get used to the fact that some earn small money, while others make a lot of money. I ran out of comparison today in this debate... Well, it's nice to say the president of PKO made, I don't know, $2 million. It's a huge amount of money, and I wish everyone, too, would make that kind of money. His counterpart, President of PKO SA, earned almost 9 million PLN, but we are not talking about this anymore. For example, we're not talking about the president of TVN and I pulled this data from the money portal. PGNiG's CEO also earned over 8 million in the past year. That's how managers who are selected in competitions who are elected by supervisory boards earn money. The Supervisory Board shall be appointed to elect the Management Board, it shall settle the Management Board and the Supervisory Board shall appoint the Owner. If the State Treasury company has a majority stake or a minority stake, then its representative is... And they're here to account. I'm surprised we're discussing... We're trying to adjust the bill because somebody made money, somebody else can't make money. Why can't he? Why take away people's right to earn money? Who do we want to fill positions in such important companies, which are listed on the stock exchange, are our priorities, eyes in our head, companies with the participation of the Treasury companies? I am surprised at this discussion, and I am surprised that we are once again reaching for the things that... In fact, we should protect these companies and take care of them, and because today we're debating earnings... who, what kind of manager will want to be involved with such a company, if tomorrow we can adopt a new bill and take them back, I don't know, like the last 70% , maybe 99% Or is he even gonna pay for it? I believe that this debate, this bill... According to many professionals, business people today are really difficult to fill positions in companies of the Treasury, it is difficult to find someone responsible, someone with an education, with experience. There aren't many people who can work... That's what I'm gonna talk about at the end. I'm surprised to see the slogan here: social justice. If you want social justice in the economy... How do we compare the company to this social justice? The companies of the Treasury, if we are to compare it, do not act fairly either, because many companies, small entities, fell because they were unable to compete with these companies, were unable to give the same prices. These companies, you might say, have acted against other companies that didn't stick with them. Is that fair? Yes, it's fair because today the free economy wins, prices win, good management wins, and that's what's part of a healthy economic rivalry. We're not gonna make a set-up so someone doesn't make money. Make him make money. Let the ministers earn money if they do their job well, let the Members and the Senators finally earn their money. That's what you have to talk about. It is not necessary to be ashamed of money or of what we are surrounded by. It's all for people. That's why we work to make a profit. How someone's worked his whole life to get a good education, acquire skills, and today he's taking a managerial position... praise such people. Finally, I want to talk about this justice because... It's not about the defense, but there were words to one of the presidents of a state-owned company who recently served as a different function. I mean the president of Lotus, Mr. Robert Pietryszyn. I really know him on the right side as a good professional and a good man who knows his job. He showed it too. Without these laws, without this debate, throwing over and over again the names and names of companies, companies of the Treasury Even if someone is entitled to a discharge of almost PLN 0.5 million, it may not be downloaded and avoided media noise. Yeah, it happened. without any media noise, not the same as in other cases. It was noted that when the media wrote down how the noise turned out, someone suddenly turned in the briefing. Here it was the other way around, because the money belonged to the ban on competition, from a contract that operates in all companies, and someone said: thank you, I don't accept. And if someone thinks they're making too much money, they can make a donation for social purposes, for hospice, for hospitals, for associations. He can do whatever he wants with his money. And that's social justice when someone who hasn't worked much takes a position and wants to show that he's a good manager, that he didn't just come to take money and put it in his pocket, he can say thank you and give up a few hundred thousand. And we should fight for such people, we should look after such people, and the best example is the new president of Lotus, Mr. Robert Pietryszyn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u177	Thank you very much. Now please take the floor of Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u178	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! A few words about pay. Well, remuneration, like taxes, is an element that we want to have the greatest impact on, and we certainly want to be able to say as much as possible about someone's salary. I personally believe that regulating matters concerning remuneration not only in companies of the Treasury, but also where the Treasury has any participation, is a movement in the right direction, Minister. And our questions. I've already said that. It does not result from the fact that all of us, like one husband, are opposed to this direction of ordering, because what the Minister has read about the salary... As they were hidden, it is another thing, but the issue of the salary was certainly not transparent and not worthy to follow, therefore ordering these matters is a good move. But I would like to make a few comments on what you are proposing and say a few words about salaries, the size of salaries. Well, I would, of course, be far from saying that this salary, which the Senator rapporteur here referred to, of PLN 1.5 million or PLN 2 million per year, is a measure of constitutional social justice. I would ask you not to use such terms, because the salary may be even higher... The Minister says we'll watch, we'll check, we'll analyze. The predecessors, too, probably said that they were analyzing how they analyzed And yet these salaries, sometimes pathological, which the Minister here referred to, were paid. That's why you have to think about what's an important indicator. And today, one such measurable indicator is the coefficient of income dissipation, not in sensations, but in figures. Gini's coefficient is flattened for 27 years in Poland and today it is 30.7, for the European Union 30.5. Generally, the lower this ratio is, the lower the wage gap. This wage gap is very important, because when it is great, then there are social unrest, it is something that proves social inequality. And Poland has a good trend today. I will only remind my colleagues from Law and Justice that in 2006, during the rule of law and justice, this ratio was as follows: in Europe it was 30,2 and in Poland 33,3, that is, the wage gap was greater than today. Therefore, once again, I would like to point out that this is a move in the right direction, but burdened with many mistakes. Well, spreading the slogan of social justice, saying that $2 million is social injustice... Well, in my opinion, it's more of an exaggeration. And now the question of the gates that this bill opens. I understand the determination that the Minister is talking about: we are starting a certain movement... Okay. But I would like you and you, Minister, to be aware of the way this bill opens. What's going on with the briefings... Well, here were the questions... The issue of briefing is very debatable, and here is an element worth considering, namely: whether the outgoing manager should have a different briefing than the other employees or not. I am of the opinion that the level of the manager's salary should be a dominant factor here, not a side thing, such as a briefing, a ban on competition, for which we pay or other such things. Of course, the Minister is right about a lot of things, but this is an element that will allow different kinds of deviation from the provisions of the law. What else is important? We asked the Minister here if the company in question would enter into an agreement with another company for the management of... The Minister said that your law does not regulate such matters as regards the level of remuneration. So I believe that if a company of the State Treasury enters into a management agreement with another company, it will determine management issues, then the remuneration in the management company may be any. Therefore, there are also dangers. Also the issue of working in one company as a manager, and in others as a representative in the supervisory board or in other bodies of the company. That's what makes it possible to start... Officially on paper it can be 2 million PLN, to which we often refer, and yet reality will be different. As for the examples given by the Minister, as I said, They are at least, to put it mildly, reprehensible. But this bill is causing Because the Minister said that this is certainly the case for about 400 entities that control the State Treasury, the extension to other entities, including municipal entities... Minister, there will be inevitably pressure to increase the remuneration of managers in other companies. Of course, you gave extreme, nasty, bad, sometimes pathological examples of pay, but the Minister didn't estimate it, and I can't estimate it either, the managers of some institutions, smaller companies will put emphasis on what concerns the level of remuneration. Therefore, in conclusion, I would like to say that it is a good thing that the discussion is starting, and that it is a good thing that the process is beginning. This bill carries a lot of threats. And don't tell me it's $2 million, and in some cases it could be even more... that it's social justice. Only with regard to Gini's coefficient... There are two patterns. The first model is a part of the European countries, including the Scandinavian countries, where the ratio is around 30, below 30, probably in Ireland is 24.6. But there are two countries where it is over 40. I would like to ask that we do not follow the example of these countries. These are Russia and the United States. There's a difference between the lowest or the average wage, because there's no lowest or average wage anywhere... the U.S. manager has 268 times the salary. I think this is not a direction for Poland, a European direction. I would suggest that, as part of the concept of social justice, we approach the way in which managers' remuneration is managed in the Scandinavian countries. He is closer to me and is very effective in resolving such shortcomings as those found in the previous system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u179	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Czesław Ryszka.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u180	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The title of the Law on the principles of determining the remuneration of persons managing certain companies would be further described as: on earnings in companies of the State Treasury within the limits of decency. The word decency is very important here. The companies in question are common ownership of the nation, common ownership, therefore those who manage them should earn well, but not as if they were their owners. Unfortunately, in recent years, despite the so-called. The chimney law, there were huge pathologies, and the media even wrote about thieving crying out for revenge to heaven. In many cases, it was more greedy or, as I said earlier, lawful stealing, because according to the so-called. The chimney law, which limited the earnings of the presidents to PLN 18,000 a month, often earned several million zlotys a year. I would like to refer to an example, although examples in this case are not so important, because the point is that the law is moving in the right direction. The earnings of the presidents of listed companies with the participation of the State Treasury were sometimes higher than those of the presidents who worked in private companies, i.e. those who really contributed to the power of these companies. So that's what's certain maybe not pathology, but... That, too, should be seen. An example of this pathology may be the former President of Jastrzębska Węglowa Company, who earned about PLN 1.5 million a year when the company had billions of losses and a private miner made about PLN 3 000 a month. But, of course, the president of this company cannot compete with the President of Orlen, who earned PLN 6.5 million in 2015. Therefore, this law is intended to limit this kind of pathological situation, since it assumes a reduction in earnings to 64 000 gross monthly. However, as it has been said here, is this law very often a political procedure of appointment to the boards of its people to well equip them? It's hard to answer that question. One thing is certain: we are taking a step in the right direction so that the earnings in the companies of the State Treasury are adequate for the skills, for the profit achieved and the decency mentioned at the outset. It is true that the Act establishes that, because of the circumstances, there may be other remuneration thresholds. The Act indicates 6 reasons when this remuneration may be higher. One of them is the increase in the company's revenue, that's obvious. In practice, there can certainly be a departure from the spirit of the law, life is richer than the law. However, I trust that with the present public disclosure of life, many will come to their senses, and they will become more socially sensitive. Let me put it this way: it's not about social justice, it's about social sensitivity. There's a big difference. For the sake of clarity, I would like to mention a few specific provisions of the Act. The current so-called The chimney law applies only to companies in which the State Treasury has more than 50% shares. The remuneration of the board members is to be 50% lower than the previous ones on average and will depend on the size of the company, the number of employees or the revenue generated. So this law will already cover all companies controlled by the State Treasury, not only those in which the State Treasury has more than 50% participation. The remuneration shall consist of a fixed part resulting from the duties performed and a mobile part, i.e. a bonus. In exceptional circumstances, the boards will be able to determine a different amount of the fixed remuneration, but then we have here this disclosure It's a reward case for board members. The bill says they won't be discretionary anymore. If the Supervisory Board wishes to grant a bonus to the members of the Management Board, it will have to indicate the investment criteria and objectives to be met in order to award the award or bonus. In addition, the various privileges of the authorities of the State Treasury companies are to be abolished, among others. health insurance, housing insurance at the expense of the company, and the use of business cars for private purposes is also to be limited. The Act limits the prohibition of competition for board members after the termination of the management agreement. It is also intended to limit the amount of checks for the members of the boards of companies to a maximum of 3 parts of the fixed monthly salary, provided that a minimum of one year is worked in the company concerned. The Act also regulates matters relating to the liquidation of companies and the remuneration of wound-ups. And all these new rules for the remuneration of companies with the participation of the State Treasury are expected to bring nearly PLN 60 million in savings per year. It is also in a good direction to regulate the remuneration of members of supervisory boards, which are now the same for all entities, regardless of their size. The possibility of a 10% higher remuneration will be introduced, which will only benefit the Chairperson of the Supervisory Board and the members of the Audit Committee. The Act prohibits the presidents of companies of the State Treasury from taking additional remuneration for sitting on supervisory boards of subsidiaries, i.e. in companies of daughters, grandchildren. That's a lot of restrictions. But, as I have already said, as is the case in life, in various situations, the adoption of the law itself will not change much unless there is a qualitative change in the filling of posts, i.e. in particular, unless managers with experience, competences, socially sensitive professionals are chosen, aware that they are not owners of the company, but only good managers placed over the common property. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u181	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Piotr Flork.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u182	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is important that wages are determined by competition, free market, so that these salaries are actually linked to achievements. Both the chimney law, as regards the six times that was written there and the absence of a restrictive limit, as the Minister said, as well as that law, which introduces this maximum fifteen times, but also what I quoted, i.e. that of the mouth. 4 point 3 opens the gate... Although my previous speaker was talking about BIP, about the justification that it must be there. Mr. Minister mentioned that, too. But it's no big deal to prepare and write such a justification. So that's not a big problem, the more that we all know what the criteria are. So in my opinion, the case is open, and I really don't see a big change here either. What hurts so much? It pains me that this law concerns local government units, municipal legal entities, and there are also multiples of the basis of the dimension. In my opinion, there will be a problem here depending on whether it is a municipality, a county or a local government... In these units, there may indeed be a problem with the fact that even the multiples that are written will be relatively high. Life will probably show what it will look like, but in my opinion it is important to consider that in some local governments it will be a problem and this will involve increases in wages. And that's what we need to pay particular attention to here. It's important, as we said, that here, who's in charge and how he's in charge, decide who's qualified, so that the real salary, as we talked about, follows the effects of work. This is important and important. There are no qualifications here, actually no requirements. It can therefore be expected that these posts will be occupied by persons selected according to different keys, which will, as if in an equal way, be designated to perform these functions. And that, of course, is the concern, and in my opinion this law does not change much in terms of the state that it is so far. Nevertheless, I would like to make one amendment that I mentioned. It's about art. Paragraph 1 (3) delete the part of the sentence which reads: "which are not simultaneously the entities referred to in points 4, 6 and 7 ', since those points 4, 6 and 7 are no longer in the Act. So, for the sake of order, for the sake of proper legislation, I believe that this should also be sorted out, and that is why I am making this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u183	Thank you very much, Senator. Thank you. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Rulewski. Five minutes...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u184	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In my previous speech, I showed that this bill is fatal, and if I refer to it, for example. to numbers, it looks like it is written on 19 pages, while the so-called. The chimney, which I absolutely wouldn't want to... I wouldn't like to say so, the glory to bring in, is on three pages, and yet it also manages the diets and salaries of mayors, presidents and councillors. But I'm getting back to the case. I know that by majority votes this bill will be adopted and probably even without amendments. However, I have a duty and also because of the help shown to the government, finally to our government, the government of the Republic of Poland, I want to make amendments. First of all, the remuneration of the managers should be adequate to what the subordinates are saying, employees, i.e. in determining the level of remuneration, should take into account the remuneration of the employees. This is a feedback mechanism: the higher the remuneration of employees, the higher the remuneration of the board. Of course, this is a simplification, but it is necessary, for example, because it is difficult, for example. in this project to regulate remuneration only half, only based on the amount of employment and turnover. The mine has a lot of turnover, because it's a lot of tons of coal, a lot of people hire. But what to do, for example. With a holding company? Holding is such a structure pyramid. Managers of the entire holding company manage 200 employees, and one of the companies, e.g. PGNiG employs 4,000 employees. It follows that the subordinate company will have the possibility of higher remuneration of the management board. And there's a rule that says it's composing, but not quite, not quite, in this part of the variable, it compensates. That's one thing. Besides, as I say, we have companies, the Minister has even said about it, such as PGNiG, a monopoly that profits not because of such great business and great management, and we have small companies that have to break through on the domestic market, compete with private foreign rivals, and the president of such a company because of small employment It's here for Professor Rabbit I say it can get 3 average wages, and it's a great professor, manager. Except because he only hires nine people, he's gonna make very little money. That's one flaw. Briefing. I don't accept your argument that you've seen... Even if you did, and I accept, because I trust you... Sir, briefings in civil law contracts are absurd. In practice, checks shall be granted to workers made redundant in group redundancies, as a result of the dissolution of collective agreements, of the restructuring of the company, and not when a party with full awareness begins to take up management. In the meantime, she is expected to receive some other briefings. Right? It's an employee concept, not a contract concept. The deal can be made, but it's okay. Come on, another case, I'm not hiding, it's a matter of experience, which is also in this bill. We've limited our expertise in the Civil Service Act. We didn't make a requirement, Mr. Marshal, you're listening here, thank you very much. In the IPN we limited the need to choose from the faculty. And in this act we also say that everyone can be a member of the Board of PGNiG, moreover, such a practice takes place now and actually took place earlier. In order not to throw away, not to destroy our economy, our great enterprises, which, as Senator Ryszka said here, are social property and we need to sneak at them even more than private property, we cannot risk hiring random people, with nominations; see the case of Antonius Mariusz Kaminski, who was employed and released after 2 days. What haven't I got here in my amendments? Well, I don't. And that's what I recommend. A solution to the problem of supervision. I think Senator Rooster and I talked about it. Who accepted the president of the Jastrzębska Coal Company? Who gave him such a high wage? Who's been following the crappy results? Supervisory Board, in which I regret to state As many as 2 trade unionists were under the company pact. The same ones who scream that wages are too small, at the same time admitted without any restrictions one of the highest salaries and did not check it again. Therefore, in the case of this law, I will vote against until the problem of ownership supervision is properly resolved, as is the case in private companies... [[Finish up. Time's up.]] I'm almost done. [[You've been over a minute.]] ...which is when the chances of both private and public companies will be equalized, because this is a constitutional requirement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u185	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Zbigniew Silence. Are you making amendments, Senator? [[Yeah, yeah, I already did.]] Yes? Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u186	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to remind you of some basic issues that decide that we have to deal with this matter at all, which is the remuneration of persons managing companies of the State Treasury. Well, ladies and gentlemen, as with any economic activity, a financial result is always a decisive criterion for assessing an institution. In a private economy, the same financial result determines, first, who the owner employs and, secondly, how much the owner pays for his work. But this connection never occurs where the State Treasury or the municipality owns it, because there responsibility is very blurred and you can't get it out of your own pocket. 'Cause the owner pays out of his own pocket. You pay any amount of money for wages and hire any dilettants in these positions, because you don't pay out of your own pocket. In a private company, it will never happen that even a member of the family hires, if he is of no use to anything and has no competence, or even pays a capable manager a horrendous salary, as is the case, as we have witnessed, in companies of the Treasury, where millions of dollars of earnings are thrown or checks for a very short period of work. Therefore, I believe that this regulation is necessary. Of course, it is possible to discuss whether this is regulated in this way or in any other way, what kind of criteria should be adopted to determine the amount of remuneration: whether the criterion of the number of persons employed and the turnover achieved by the company, as assumed... It seems to me that this criterion is quite reasonable, because undoubtedly management is about managing both staff and certain financial resources. This seems to be probably the most objective criterion. Although these examples you gave to Senator Rulewski are some exceptions to this principle, and perhaps in these cases another kind of criterion would be more appropriate. But there's no way in the law to determine anything that would fit all the cases that might happen in life. Thus, the role of some kind of general wording and then interpretation of ad casum is so great as to apply it in every one case. It seems to me that this is a step forward, some progress that needs to be accepted. That's why I think this bill deserves a party. However, I believe that this is only the first step that should be aimed at actually making the salaries of people who manage our property, because this is the property of the Treasury, which belongs to the nation, or the property belonging to the local communities, when it comes to municipalities, or communal property... Well, it's about making sure that the money is spent in a reasonable way. And, ladies and gentlemen, there is also a myth to be dealt with, which very often concerns the setting of remunerations for managers, and the claim that there is supposedly no adequate number of people willing to exercise management, because this supposedly requires such huge qualifications, such talents, and competition on the market is supposed to be so huge that these managers will go elsewhere and be better rewarded, e.g. in private companies, various commercial companies and other entities. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a myth. I myself, ladies and gentlemen, know the cases of people who have never shown anything, have barely completed their studies and, as a result of certain happy coincidences or political connections, have received functions that are practically lifelong. And even if they got to know each other, they realized they were just dilemmas, so they lost their position... Well, a year or two has been out of employment, but after all, millions of dollars earned are enough to stay out of work for even a few years and wait for another opportunity. ♪ And it's gonna work ♪ ♪ And it's gonna work again ♪ Some loot will get it. And it works very often. I think these myths deserve to be dealt with. This argument must be rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a good thing that we have included in this bill the possibility of optional admission in the event of termination of the contract, because in fact... Senator Dobrzyński asked. The situation is something curial, since a man earns hundreds of thousands or millions of zlotys, and he is also granted a briefing, which in the employee systems, under the Labour Code, is granted so that this person can survive during this period. It's lost its source of income, and it takes time to find another job. It doesn't apply to people who make so much money. Therefore, the optional grant of this compensation provided for in Article. 7 deserves recognition. In general, I consider this law to be a positive step in order to regulate these matters. I would like to remind you that in private companies very often... German research shows that the owners of reputable companies, ladies and gentlemen, often earn barely enough to support these companies, but to maintain them, so that the tradition of many centuries continues to satisfy themselves. They mainly care to ensure the employment of employees and the appropriate level of production of their company. With us, however, in the case of Treasury companies, remuneration is often treated as some kind of distribution, and those who manage it do not feel like owners who are obliged to take care of this property and the employees entrusted to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u187	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Stanisław Rogut will speak at the moment. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u188	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! Dear guests! First of all, we must thank Minister Grzegorczyk and the Professor for their efforts to standardise remuneration. Dear State, this concerns 4 ministries: Ministry of Treasury, Ministry of Development, Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction and Ministry of Energy. What happened in previous years when it comes to wages was really a robbery in broad daylight. I completely agree with Senator Rulewski that the earnings of the presidents and board members should depend on the company's performance, on the size of the company. Ladies and gentlemen, please don't insult anyone... I'll tell you what happened on the railroad. There used to be five board members, and they all had a total of 50,000. Gentlemen, for eight years, we've been trying to circumvent wage agreements and other things. Minister Nowak concluded management contracts and those management contracts looked, Dear Member State, so that the company president took prizes of 150 thousand per month, and the employee was on the lowest salary. What was it, Dear Lords, to work for the good of the company? And the railroad still had a deficit. To get addicted to results... I'm definitely in favour of making the CEOs' and board members' earnings dependent on the company's performance. [[Voice from the room: But how...]] I'm sorry, Senator, but this is how it should be done. That's what we've been fighting for. This is the first case. Second thing, Mr and Mrs Dear. I'll give you an example from yesterday. At the meeting of the Infrastructure Commission, the issue of Polish Post was discussed. Gentlemen, you were the Minister of Infrastructure, Mr. Smolinski, who presented, submitted... Gentlemen, that's where the CEOs made money. He didn't say it, but I quickly calculated it, so I'm talking about 130 thousand PLN, and as far as employees are concerned, they had less than 2 thousand PLN gross. This is where the senator spoke about America and other countries. Dear Lords, in civilized countries of the world it is so In free-market countries, because I do not look at communist states, but at free-market countries, that the difference in earnings is up to 10%. . Now let's figure out this guy got 120 grand, 130 grand, and this guy got 20... Next case. Let's take... After all, you've all heard how much you've made in Orlena, how much you've made in Lotus. I think this is a really huge offense, a huge social injustice. I know there's a standard for advice here, too. There are standards for supervisory boards and very well, because we, voters, get votes from our voters, who say: gentlemen, come into any energy company and have 15 thousand for advice, and in other companies they have the lowest advice... And thank you, Minister, for actually standardizing. This seems to me, Mr and Mrs Dear, is really the beginning, because there was enough social injustice in Poland when it comes to earnings. Once again, geniuses like that weren't supposed to make so much money. I'm not talking about others anymore, because banks are mostly private... But it's also a huge scandal when someone makes astronomical money. Minister, I really congratulate you on your initiative, congratulations on your courage in these first steps, at first, because you will have to continue to normalize all of this slowly. And I think this is really the first step. You can criticize everything because we can say everything that everything is be... But I don't want to politically attack, gentlemen, because Mr. Rulewski, and Mr. Flork, and I respect you all as people, as subjects, not as things, really. But, ladies and gentlemen, what has been going on for eight years? I know what happened on the railroad, I'm not talking about other companies. There were phones all the time, all the time, what these ATMs are doing... And as they wanted to get around employment issues, when it comes to a normal, normal employee who didn't know what a rail looked like, they immediately made him a contract manager and 20 grand straightaway he got, and he came and did two days on the rail, where one day you had to walk a certain level. I'm not talking about boards anymore... I was just talking about the wages at the PKP, but if we took other companies, Mr. and Mrs. Dear... So where's the state budget supposed to make money? Who's been making money? If you look at these railway companies, it turns out that they all had a deficit, and the presidents were 100 and 120 grand each. Where's Senator Janie, the income, where's the income? There used to be super-profit companies, and now they've been sold out to, I don't know, get rich. So, Mr. Minister, just so you don't stall... In fact, this is the first bill... Congratulations, really congratulations, don't back down, go ahead to make a lot of things normal, not just about the board's salaries, but even more radically when it comes to supervisory boards... I really think there are some inaccuracies there, too, and what was said here... I like trade union representatives because I come out of solidarity, but sometimes you have to have some sense about unionists' earnings on supervisory boards... you have to have some sense. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u189	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk made his speech in the discussion on the minutes. I would like to inform you that you have tabled legislative proposals in writing by Senator Jan Rulewski and Senator Piotr Florek. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the statements or legislative proposals? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u190	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A few words at the end. Thank you very much for all your comments, both warm voices and critical voices. I do not hide that in particular I thank you for the critical votes, because they make the discussion better. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that we have reached a full consensus in this Chamber, at least on one point, namely that today's chimney law is a highly imperfect legislation that gives birth to far-reaching pathologies. I understand we're different about how to fix this state of affairs. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! I do not hide that some issues have not yet been able to understand, because on the one hand you are attacking the fact that the law is abstracting from competition, from free market, from financial achievements, that it is bureaucratic and on the other hand you are questioning the introduction of remuneration limits, you say that we are introducing higher limits. That's not true, by the way, but this criticism in my subjective assessment is simply inconsistent. You are also talking about social solidarity. However, I would like to say that we, when talking about these highest remuneration ceilings and about the system of remuneration in the companies of the Treasury, are following the basic principle. The Treasury is a shareholder and it is not the same as any other shareholder. Here, Senator Silence, in my opinion, has pointed out this very well. This is a public shareholder, a special shareholder, it is not a private shareholder, the same as any other shareholder. Of course we want to draw the best from the market, we want to, but we really need to be fully aware that we answer to people, because they are the treasure of the state, and not us, that is their property. And now I'm really done... Therefore, I recommend, after all, art. Article 2 and Article 2 20 Basic Law, because there are these ideas that were also guiding us. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, what we are proposing is a legislative act which complies with all corporate standards, with the recommendations of the European Commission, the Financial Supervision Commission, the OECD. This is a legal act that we believe in deeply eliminates pathologies, both in the application of the highest salaries and in the merely dishonest making in 2 or 3 subsidiaries. That's what we're saying. Enough. This act eliminates pathology. This legislation is also, as I would like to draw attention very much, based on market conditions and criteria as objective as possible. We can always argue about criteria, but please note that the criteria that we propose, they are already in the system of law, they are taken, taken alive from the Law on the freedom of business. These are objective criteria. And finally, ladies and gentlemen, what seems to be most important is a matter of transparency. We're not going to shape the pay in the locker room, quietly, when the president makes an appointment with the minister. This isn't the way. Every citizen will see the bill and will be able to see how many to how many in a company controlled by the Treasury this president will earn. Very good. Transparency, above all. So we want to pay rationally, motivatingly and transparently. And the last sentence is this. You called for this to be the first stage of change. I declare, this is the first stage of change. Senator Rulewski is right, corporate supervision in the Treasury companies for a very long time lay I'm not gonna mention it for the last eight years. We want to change this state of affairs. This is the first stage. I declare to you that we are finishing our conceptual work and there will soon be a package of rationalisation laws which I would describe as rationalising the management of the property of the State Treasury. Just as we promised this bill, so will the next package. This is the first step. Thank you very much and I ask you to accept this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u191	Thank you very much, Minister. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on National Economy and Innovation to respond to the proposals presented and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Agricultural Advisory Units. The text of the Act is contained in print No 212 and the committee's report In print No 212 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski, to present a report.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u192	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to report on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the meeting of the committee which took place on 28 June, i.e. on a statutory date, not on a sudden basis, as some have said here today. Some claimed that there was no time to read the material from the committee meeting, so I say that the report is from 28 June to today. In this report, the committee, after consideration at its meeting, requests that the law be adopted without amendments. At the meeting, of course, there was a brief discussion, and all the rules were discussed, which are introduced in the new law amending the law. Currently, this law aims to transfer the supervision of voivodship agricultural advisory centres from the voivodship management board to the minister responsible for rural development. In the current legal state, voivodship agricultural advisory centres are voivodship legal persons. The Act makes them state legal persons. Therefore, the directors of the provincial agricultural advisory centres will be appointed by the Minister responsible for rural development. As far as the social councils of agricultural advisory services operating at the voivodship centers are concerned, they have been so far and will, of course... One of the appointed members will now be a representative of the minister responsible for rural development. The Minister responsible for Rural Development will also appoint members of the social councils for agricultural advice operating at voivodship centres within 60 days of the entry into force of the law. And the bill will enter into force within 14 days of the date of the announcement. I think that's it. The bill says straight... It doesn't change much in terms of competence, but in general it changes supervision as a person, as a minister of agriculture... So, you could say, we're dealing with back to the original shape, as it used to be, before the changes, before 2009. It is also so strongly emphasized that earlier the voivode was in charge, and now the minister himself will be overseeing. So much for the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u193	Thank you very much, Senator. [[And I'm asking you to accept the bill without amendment.]] At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the Senator rapporteur. Any of you gentlemen... [[Senator Florek.]] I'm looking to see if you're... Okay, I'm sorry. Would any of you like to ask such a question? Senator Piotr Florek, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u194	Mr. Marshal, thank you. Senator rapporteur, I remember how not so long ago agricultural advisory centers, 16 voivodship centers, passed from the voivodship offices under the management of the voivodship. That was a while ago. I'd like to know if you've been discussing... actually, what's the reason why... Because I remember the reason why we were giving up these centers, and I was actively involved. What is the reason for these voivodship centers not to go back to the voivodship's board of directors, but to return to the minister of agriculture in general: What is the justification for this?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u195	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u196	Of course, the Minister will probably come back to a broad justification and talk about it in a moment, but I would like to remind you in general that the Law and Justice were in favour of these centres being supervised by the Minister of Agriculture so that they would not be transferred. At that time we discussed in this Chamber and said that this was a mistake and it should not be done. We were afraid that the assets that were transferred would be reduced, among other things, that this was an assassination of the assets. And today I can say that this is a real hit, because for example. The Pomeranian Agricultural Advisory Centre has now put up for sale a fortune, valued it, changed its location. I don't know if it's almost on the border of the law anymore, knowing that we're about to pass it on by law, they're getting rid of their assets. The same is done at the moment by the Lublin center based in Końskowola, handed it over to the marshal, the same is done to the estate. So it's just that the assassination of the state estate was done and done. We even screamed that we as farmers would deprive ourselves of the state's wealth, which would be self-government... Because they cared about hotels, they cared about infrastructure, they cared about property, etc. We said it was the wrong direction. That's one thing. Secondly, at the time we said that action must be coordinated with one common agricultural policy, the requirements of which today are laid down by the European Commission, the European Union, the common agricultural policy, which clearly states what tasks are to be carried out. You have to carry out. And we already had 16 different regional policies at the moment, and it can be said that these issues, which we have raised on several occasions, pointed out that this has gone away from a strict approach to good advice, to more and more professional advice, to join together, as I have always said in this House and what I will repeat. Science and practice, one with another. Another issue is implementation. There is no consolidation between universities, there is no consolidation with institutes subordinate to the agricultural minister and other departments, I could mention here. Innovation should be taken into account in these activities. I believe that at the moment when the Government of Law and Justice made such a decision, as it had announced in the election campaign, and announced that it would lead to it, all these actions which were promised will actually be carried out at the stage of real advice, not just paid advice, as we call it. Because there was private advice, and the advice provided to local governments was paid. In my opinion, this advice was just to show, it was such advice to show directly how to fill in proposals, how to implement them, and it was not technological advice, leading to improving farmers' incomes, giving them a better chance. This advice has become strictly financial advice, not advice, which gives the chance to implement many other solutions. We therefore believe that this advice should work better with the Minister of Agriculture, who is responsible for the agricultural department.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u197	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Rafał Ambrozik.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u198	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr President, I have a question about the results of the 2014 NIK audit. The NIK pointed to large disparities in the prices of the services of the various agricultural advisory centres. What was the result of these disparities? I ask because the differences reached several thousand zlotys for the same service.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u199	Thank you very much. Or maybe we can compose the questions, Mr. Senator. Okay? Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u200	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a question about the matter of the bill itself. In general, we introduce the supervision of the Minister of Agriculture of the Voivodship Agricultural Advisory Centres. I have a question about people employed in currently functioning agricultural advisory centres. Will they, of course, be apart from the directors who, under the law, will be appointed by the Minister responsible for agriculture... what about the workers? Will they stay, so to speak, transferred from the vending machine according to the labor code? Or will there be a whole new creation? That's the first question. And second question. I would like to know if this was discussed at the committee meeting. By what date... here is the article being changed. 3 and it is mentioned that the Minister responsible for Development grants the statutes of the agricultural advisory bodies by way of an order. There's no deadline. I understand that the bill will come into force, and I would like to know what period is foreseen for the statute. Will these structures be taken over? How will this continue to work? Because now there are 16 voivodship agricultural advisory centres unsupervised by the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Agriculture under this law will take over. How will this continue to work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u201	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u202	Well, as far as NIK is concerned, I think we're already here... I don't have a report on me right now, and it's hard for me to say in detail, but it's also in my mind that the problem was raised. Well, it's hard for me to relate. The fact is, the NIK report is telling me, so it's hard for me to comment on, on what principle and who uses... As you can see, 16 different policies could be used differently in different centres. When it comes to supervising the Minister of Agriculture... As far as employees are concerned, according to what I read in the Act, there is a labour code, i.e. according to the Labour Code, there are no changes here, the self-government center turns into a state centre, and therefore there are no major changes here and I do not see any such need. I think a question about the statute is a question for the Minister. I think it'll work. I think that since it is said that within 60 days the council will be called up, the statute will have to be adopted before 60 days. Because that results in the consequence that we have to determine... It shouldn't last more than 60 days, that's how I understand it, at least according to this record, which defines a period of 60 days.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u203	Thank you, Senator. Senator Wiesław Kilian.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u204	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. The Senator rapporteur mentioned the assets here. My question is about wealth, too. In many cases, the voivodship agricultural advisory centres are located, the owner of which is the local government of the voivodship. What will happen when the Ministry takes over the supervision of the appointment of directors of these centres? Will this property be taken over from the local government, or will the Ministry pay rent for rented space? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u205	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator... [[About...]] Wait a minute. Senator Piotr Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u206	Mr. Senator, as to the appointment of the head of the farm advisory unit... Because I understand that now the Minister will appoint him and that the requirements have been changed. If you could tell me if you were discussing these requirements and the question of the deputy director, who will now appoint the deputy director... Because he had previously appointed their voivode at the request of the director. Has anything changed, and now the minister will appoint them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u207	Thank you very much. Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski... No, I'm sorry, Rafał Ambrozik. Sorry, sorry, I didn't look right.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u208	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr President, I would also like to ask you about these differences in prices in the context of the NIK audit proposals, which addressed a request to the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development to standardise the activities of voivodship centres. Has the development of these uniform ways of action been introduced, or have these uniform ways of action been introduced, or is it as it has been so far?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u209	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u210	As far as requirements and standardisation are concerned, I think this is a specific question for the Minister, because we did not discuss it at the committee meeting, so I find it difficult to refer to it at the moment, and I do not want to present my opinion, because that would not be an appropriate response. As for the legal requirements that the senator asked about, the requirements are set out in the bill, everything is clear, it is written straight down and I think there is nothing new here. Well, if it's written there that he's calling the minister, and then he's at the minister's office, and the deputies, that's equally the same thing. The Director and alternates shall therefore be directly subordinate to the Minister. As regards the reduction, as you asked, of qualification requirements, there was no discussion at the committee meeting. The record is clear, clear, so I won't comment on it, because there was no discussion at the committee meeting. The property of the chamber... Excuse me, a fortune that is... I'm reading the bill right now, where there's a record that he's going through with the property. So just like he was going with his property to self-government, same thing. That's how I understand it, reading the law literally. Also with property goes now, what is self-government, becomes state property. Well, that's how I understand it by reading the bill, and for details, ask the Minister. These are lawyers who should explain this, and I think they're already at this stage of perfection, that they know what they're taking over, what they're conveying. I'm just worried about what I just reminded you of, because I just got a text message two hours ago, that how it is that at the moment in Lublin is being assassinated by the current director who is handing over property to the Seym. I don't know what kind of law that is... In the text it is written briefly: please take action, because at this moment the property is transferred to the Seym. I don't know what it's all about, I'm not a professional in this field, and I'm not gonna be proud of it, because it's a minister's domain and probably a marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u211	That's all the questions? Is anybody... Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u212	Mr. Marshal, I have a question for the Senator of the rapporteur. Mr. Senator, in your speech, you said that 16 advisory centers had 16 different agricultural policies. Would you mind telling me what the agricultural policy in your province was different from the agricultural policy of your country? I can tell that regional policy was different from the country's agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u213	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u214	At this point, This is a matter of discussion. In fact, at the committee meeting, we didn't talk about it, we didn't compare what, where, in which... However, the opinions gathered at the conferences that we carried out earlier I will remind you that I held 3 conferences; 2 conferences were held together with the Sejm and Senate committees in the previous term, but in this, 3 February, we also held a conference And all the post-conference material shows a lot of elements, shows how it works and how it works. We've been showing it all. Therefore, I think I will not be developing the subject at the moment and comparing every voivodeship because I have no such experience. However, I can say this: there are certain actions in the region, there is something going on somewhere that someone has an idea. It carries out its investment in industry, and it may even be useful, since the industry is supportive. But he forgets about innovation, about cooperation, about new technologies, about other things. In my opinion, it was not cooperation, it was acting on such a principle that an advisor who became a councillor was often a political advisor who advised, for example. function in orbit of power in a seymime. I remember the debate in which we said here, in the Senate, that we will get more competence, there will be more funding for the policy that will be implemented. I'm sorry to say that the first step that was... Then there was going to be a second stage, which means that they're going to oversee it directly, not the seymikas, but the boards, that there's going to be financial resources, that we're going to give more funding. The bottom line is, maybe someplace minimally, it turned out that the funding... well, it's the other way around. We can say how we're going to count right now, how we're going to take the balance sheet, that probably more assets have been taken over than actually financed directly by local governments. Before that, local authorities explained that they could not legally finance. And the wages in these centers have dropped. The accuracy of HR, which is right now, I'd say... To me, the staff is actually very weak. It is a long-term staff, which often works on the board just because there are no more jobs elsewhere, because it is already used to it. There is no such thing as employing more and more experts, professionals, who would advise us, farmers. I must admit that most of them have fled agricultural advisory centres and are providing private advice, which is sometimes more effective because they simply take other measures. There aren't any other industries... So the policy as it has been lately is starting to be, I can say it on behalf of farmers. It is becoming less and less effective for farmers. It only worked, just like private companies, on the basis that you're gonna do the project, you're gonna get the money. That's all you're gonna make, that's all you've got. You won't, it won't. If that's still going to happen, I'm sorry, but I don't see that kind of advice. I remember the '90s where we changed counseling. I was also a member of the advisory board, and we changed counseling to a completely different one. Today, advice does not meet the real needs of farmers. It's gotta be changed. I hope that the Minister will now take up such a challenge to ensure that the common agricultural policy is implemented in all... The aim is to make sure that there is as much innovation as possible and not just to complete the proposals. And I'm sorry to say that right now advisors are also their flaws in writing projects the way the farmer wants them to. He wants a project, he's got a project. No matter what the economic results are, the aim is to implement the RDP project. Then the result is that the farmer becomes bankrupt, because the advisor calculated it so that he had the project carried out. And the reality should be that whoever does the project should do the project so well, and either you have the right to get the money, or you will not get the funds, so as not to mislead the farmer. And so it's not like the farmer took the money, and now he has to go bankrupt because he has to give it back. You can't do that. It must also be the responsibility of advisors, as it is in other countries, which means that the responsibility of advisors for fulfilling certain requests, preparing projects, implementing them is also enforced.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u215	Thank you very much. Senator Marek Pęk still has a question for the senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u216	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, how much of the budget is spent on agricultural advice in the country? Is it a large amount, or is it a small amount? Is there any chance that this amount could be increased? How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u217	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u218	This amount is far too small and I stress... I can say that I still remember the fourth term of the Senate and that I then criticized what small resources are for counseling. And to be honest, they're getting smaller, they're getting smaller. There's not enough resources to be enough. In my opinion, the amount should be at least twice as high as that of the previous years. Today it should be at least twice... And then it could be consistent with certain goals. If it is put so that the funds for advice are to be collected in the form of income for the creation of projects and other... If such fees are to be collected, if this is to be done, then I apologize, but I have to say that this is not the right direction for state counseling. And I don't think that's right. In my opinion, the amount should double relative to what was before. That's my opinion, and I've been consulting for many years now, and I know what the previous rates were and what they are today.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u219	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill? You're welcome, Minister. Welcome to the meeting of Minister Richard Zarudzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u220	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Dear High Izbo! High Senate! Thank you for the opportunity to make and share a few comments on the issues raised here, and explaining this highly anticipated social project. Thank you for this process and bringing... I think the government is very supportive of this project and is fully accepting of these solutions. We call this law, this amendment of the Law on Advice, a small amendment, but despite this order of business I can say this way: for me and for the management of the Ministry it is a social change that is expected. In the election campaign, we announced It was socially accepted and socially expected that advisory centres, agricultural advice would be transferred, redirected, and that supervision by the Minister of Agriculture would take place. This is therefore a socially expected change. As far as the issues raised here are concerned, I would like to say that there are a number of important issues that can be complemented. As far as finance is concerned, right now, on this day... On top of that, 157 million are spent annually on advice from the state budget. And here I would like to point out that the parties... one of the objectives that were assumed and hoped for in this area is that the transition to management of voivodships will change the financial situation. I remember myself how in the Pomeranian Voivodeship the basic argument used was: if you go under the management of the marshal, there will be other salaries, there will be other finances, will run the whole process or the possibility of increasing advice from financial degradation. As of today, 157 million have fallen. And here's the question... Because 157 million comes from the state budget, that's the budget cost, plus it's 2.8 million from local governments. In the whole country, only 2.8 million zlotys were on purpose. This is... I say this with full responsibility: these are all the resources that the local government gives for these tasks on purpose. Of course, it is possible to get something from regional operational programs, but this is a slightly different procedure. It's like one thing. About how... There are 16 agricultural advisory units, and there is a need to harmonise the rules of operation. And here is the ministry's work... And it can also be reversed: why would it be moved? I'm directing this to the senator. Why did you make this change? It's just a suggestion. What if there wasn't any money going for it? I myself experienced this, in talks with advisors with whom I met, politics began to dominate in the regions of Marshals' offices, rather than the implementation of tasks related to agriculture, the implementation of tasks that are to be undertaken. And I think when it comes to remedial action, they're supposed to sort it out. Maybe there'll be additional questions, then I'll give you more detailed information. As far as NIK and service prices are concerned, so far every consulting center... No. So we want to sort things out so that it's not like I'm gonna say that, from Sasa to the woods, so that it's not like everybody's gonna decide... We want to sort things out in accordance with strict, good rules. As far as the matter of the Statute is concerned, the new Statute will be established immediately. Yesterday I met with all the current directors and we took some preparations for this: proposals from the substantive and non-essential departments were made, and, again, a certain order in terms of structure. Because not every resort will have its existing structure, but the structure will be organized and uniform in some way, taking into account of the particularities of each of the voivodships. That's the situation. Directors and competition requirements. If we hired 16 professors, would that mean that the situation of counseling centers will change? I don't think so. It was not about changing the criteria or lowering the requirements, it was about ensuring that those with sufficient experience, higher education and trust in farmers can be directors of centres. So it's more like tidying up than imposing or restricting anything. And I think it's one of the basic things that's related to property. This issue was raised here... I would like to stress that due to the change in the legal nature of the voivodship agricultural advisory centres, they retain the continuity of operation, the right to use perpetual land and the assets used by the centres from the beginning to carry out advisory tasks. The tasks in the field of agricultural advisory, so far carried out by voivodship advisory centers as local self-government legal entities, will continue to be carried out by these voivodships, only as state organisational units with legal personality. Land of perpetual use This was also the question here, which is the property of the voivodship, will continue to be used in the perpetual use of voivodship agricultural advisory centres as basic organisational units with legal personality. Voivodship agricultural advisory centres, which are local legal entities, become regional centres which have legal personality on the date of entry into force of the Act, retain their assets - That's what's important. which they have been using since the beginning as part of their agricultural advisory tasks. There are two very disturbing informations. From the Wielkopolska and Lublin voivodship. The Ministry is currently holding a hearing on this matter with lawyers, because strange things are beginning to happen when it comes to property matters and the activities of certain agricultural advisory centres. For example, the degree of financial degradation of advisory bodies is shown by the fact that during the previous programming period under the Rural Development Programme the amount of resources allocated to enable farmers and forest owners to use advisory services from 350 million to 25 million has been reduced by 90%. That's once. Two. For other activities, the amount of vocational training was reduced by 30%. The degree of financial degradation, and therefore the social acceptance of the workers themselves, has reached a limit here, and yet as a former employee of the advisory centre I well remember that this was supposed to be an orderly change, which would introduce good rules, including financing and functioning rules. I don't think that's what happened. Therefore, in my deepest opinion, this small amendment is only the beginning of the simultaneous procession, because soon, in September, the Ministry will come to a public consultation with a large amendment, an amendment to which tasks will be placed, there will be a reform in terms of the functioning of the advisory centre, the individuals themselves. It would be difficult to do this without the first step, which is structurally... It would be difficult for local governments to carry out this reform, as before. That is why this change is necessary, it is necessary, it gives it the right course and gives the possibility to set the budget law at a level that will guarantee good functioning since the new year. Therefore, I ask you very much to proceed with this bill and adopt it, which will be the result of our work. Thank you in advance for that too. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u221	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. I'm the first one to have Senator Grabowski signed up. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u222	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I will repeat the question I asked you to the chairman of the committee. Mr President assured me here that, with regard to the employment relations of workers currently operating agricultural advisory centres, they will be governed by the Labour Code, and the provision to which you referred to the President refers to appointments for the position of directors, that is the provision contained in this draft law. In this connection, I also have a question for the Minister, and I would like him to resolve my doubts. And the second question, in view of what the Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has signaled, and the Minister has repeated it. There were two voivodships where there are strange situations when it comes to ODR assets. Are there other cases known to the Ministry of Agriculture? If the Minister could possibly develop this thread, because this is a rather interesting thread, I would ask you to indicate what assets are transferred. I understand that agricultural advisory centres, or actually those managing them, are aware of the fact that this law is now being passed in the Sejm, and now in the Senate. I think it's intentional, I'm sure it's intentional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u223	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u224	As far as labour relations are concerned, it can be said that the entire staff composition on the date of entry into force of the Act passes from the machine to the management of the Ministry, both directors, their alternates and employees. The employer of the vending machine becomes a minister, as guaranteed by the law, there are employees of advisory centers, their employer is a minister and their term of office, which has been appointed, started earlier, the term of office of the directors and their deputies continues. Only that after a review, after a review of personal status in the sense of fulfilling tasks, the competence of the minister has the possibility of cancellation, it is not that all directors and deputies will be cancelled from the vending machine. There's no procedure here. I do not rule out that if these are good professionals, if they do the job well, whether they are such orientation or other orientation, they can continue to fulfil these tasks. I'm sure that's what's gonna happen. At the same time, we will seek solutions, as has already been said, to ensure that the tasks of the Ministry and the Ministry are carried out by those who agree with these assumptions and who are able to do so. So we're gonna do this procedure here to evaluate the work we've done so far. So much for working relationships. As for the second case, the state of the estate, the legal status of the estate, that's how I'm gonna say it. While preparing for a small amendment, preparing for changes, this planned major revision of the scope of tasks, the career path, the concept of the functioning of the consulting centre... I'll say it again, we've already got six working group meetings behind us. This work is actually on completion and we are already preparing for a public consultation. It will be widely consulted. We sent letters to 16 advisory centers asking about the legal status of the estate. We have received 16 responses, they are archived and analysed. Not much, we sent letters to the voivodships asking for confirmation of these... So we've got a pretty good diagnosis of it. We're talking about two cases where... I don't want to cause unnecessary emotion because we're still investigating it. A team of lawyers who, after the second signal... Being here in the courtroom waiting for this debate, I have been informed that something is happening to the estate that is being transferred... Question: on what basis, according to what formula? We're looking into it, and we're gonna respond right away. These two cases, which are Wielkopolska and Lublin... Yesterday, the Lublin case was raised. We need to check all this out, so I'm not gonna answer that now.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u225	Thank you very much. I'm asking Senator Libicki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u226	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have two questions. The Minister basically asked a rhetorical question, why at some point these advisory centres were passed on to local governments. Well, it seems to me, although there may be various reasons... I am not a member of the agricultural committee, but I think the main problem is that in these 16 voivodships, agriculture is simply different. Right? Greater Poland is different, Lublin is different, agriculture in other parts of Poland is different. The point is to make it a more flexible mechanism. I don't know if the Minister agrees. I'd like your opinion. The second point is as follows. I think you're following a certain pattern. We've been working on this schematic while we've been working on media laws. According to which there is first a small amendment and then a big amendment. Well, this little amendment was simply, let's call it personal matters. Only then was there a major amendment that referred to the substance. Are we dealing with a similar phenomenon here? Is this small amendment really about personal issues? The Minister has touched on this subject to some extent, saying that a certain policy must be done by certain people. I'd like to ask you to confirm if I'm thinking right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u227	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u228	Here's what I'm gonna say. We are building a unified system of diversity. Nobody says there is no regionalisation of agricultural policy in Poland. Well, I'd be the last to... what's more, no one's saying there's no need for agreements, agreements with the Seymist and regional policy that's taking place there. Looking for common... Tell me what it's been like so far. How was this determined? I'm going back to the example of my beloved Pomeranian voivodship. If the approval was November 27th... Let me give you one simple example of how this has been conducted so far. 27 November 2014 was the approval of. I may have confused years because it's been a while now. The regional operational programme, regional strategy, strategy papers. So on the same day... cohesion policy is implemented through a regional operational programme. This association was based on the fact that the Rural Development Programme was consulted on the same day. Rural beneficiaries sat and consulted at the advisory centre, and in Gdynia, in a large room, the inhabitants of the cities were talking about it. So what kind of common policy are we talking about? We reported it then, thought about why there was no such uniformity. And that's my answer. Resort's doing right now... It is very good, excellent cooperation with the Ministry of Development, we are looking for opportunities to not only complement the missing measures under the common agricultural policy programme... rural areas with cohesion policy... I will say: a uniform system for diversity. Well, I don't want to expand on that. We are building this according to certain specific principles, such an infrastructure for cooperation, but also supervision and instruments for the implementation of specific tasks, but I want to emphasise this strongly, because we will really... And I'm asking all political forces to support me. We'll be looking for agreements in the voivodships, so that the centers... What is the problem of setting up a programme of action together? And what is the problem of writing tasks, proposing tasks and identifying them, on the one hand, and carrying them out on the other? I hope that local governments were not just about power before, but about having power, having the facilities and staff of people to create a policy, I will not say: regional, but in the wrong sense, not with diversity in the creation of agricultural policy and rural development. And that's all I want to say. There's gonna be a lot going on in this case, this infrastructure is still tied up... As far as the process of this law is concerned, it makes it possible to add it directly to the digitalization of 28 million PLN from the Digital Poland programme. It's also one very specific... If there was such a far-reaching financial degradation... I'll remind you one thing... Because advice was taken from all places... I can really demonstrate this directly and numerically, although speaking of the Rural Development Programme. We're trying to get an educational platform like this, but as long as there's money to be gained, the advisory centers are under the supervision of the minister... Then we are out of the formal criterion. In the fall... Today, the Union's committee has a legal act on pests, and we are running for 58 million in the autumn. Next: we are launching actions in the framework of the Rural Development Programme concerning... And we are not going to take advice from those really millions of zlotys, just as it was in the previous period. As if they were squeezed out of counseling centers, out of these people, and this situation was created quite much degradation. I don't hide the fact that I know the counseling centers that they've managed after all. There are examples, these are individual swallows, pearls, which nevertheless functioned for various reasons. But where did they function? Where agriculture is strong as if at the start, in such key agricultural voivodships. So we have a lot to do and I am convinced that this is a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u229	Thank you very much. Senator Kilian, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u230	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, can you elaborate on the wording of the article? 6 and Article 6 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for Art. 6: The head of the agricultural advisory unit shall be appointed and cancelled by the Minister responsible for rural development, and paragraph 7: he shall have education and knowledge of matters belonging to the competence of the agricultural advisory unit. To date, the Director has been appointed on the basis of the 2004 Regulation, by means of a competition, and the candidate has had to meet certain requirements: have at least 5 years' work experience and hold a managerial position for at least 2 years. In the Minister's opinion, which method of selecting this director was better? As for the current directors, what will happen to them, you have already responded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u231	Mr. Senator, thank you for that question. I'd like to say again... Because you invoked the bill... As far as competitions in local governments are concerned, they were, you can say, on the basis of appointments and appeals... Contests, when local governments took over counseling centers, they were... Right now, you can say, we just extended it and we're not changing this formula. [[So you're still...]] We're talking about an earlier situation. I've competed in a competition like this myself, and I know how much those competitions were worth. I was actually running... I could tell you the whole contest-making story. And we know it worked out. I could really write a book about what a great fiction and what a traumatic experience it was for me at the very time we're talking about. That's one thing. And since they're on the board of local government, there's no competitions. None of the current directors has been appointed from the competition. That's the other one. And as for this record, we agreed with the lawyers that he doesn't exclude it, and these competitions can now be held. Even with a record like that. Lawyers say that if it's justified, it's the law that makes it possible to launch such a competition. So much for my explanation about art. 5 and Article 5 The six you asked about. I don't know if I answered all the questions. [[Yes. I'll just add that lately, in Lower Silesia, the director was appointed by way of a competition.]] That's what the local government said. [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] Same as now. Nothing changes here. If the minister says so, he'll open up... I'm saying it with all my responsibility. It was raised and in the Senate and in the Seym. This does not preclude the launch of the competition. I'm gonna say that at some point in our work on the bill, we're gonna process it, too, and we're gonna apply it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u232	Thank you very much. Senator Ambrosik. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u233	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I'd like to ask you about private advice. The CBA detected 11 advisory companies who falsified documents and extorted grants for over PLN 600 million. I'd like to ask if these cases found their finals in court. And have we recovered these funds? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ryszard Zarudzki: The second part I did not hear...]] Did it work? Did these cases find their finale in court? Is this about extortion of these funds by private consulting firms due to falsified documents? And have we recovered these funds? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ryszard Zarudzki: But are we talking about advice for groups of fruit and vegetables or at all?]] According to the information provided by NIK, the CBA has detected nine private advisory companies that have falsified documents and extorted funds. Have they been recovered? And whether these cases found their finale in court.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u234	I'm gonna say this: I don't know, I don't know this case, I'm gonna be honest. But there's another matter about the counseling center. When we work on it, we talk about how to change counseling. We also invite many representatives of private advice and talk to them. What's the security here? The Agricultural Advisory Centre will certify, issue certificates. And as for this particular case, I'm asking for more details. Then I will deal with it accordingly, in this particular case, when I find out. I don't know the case.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u235	But that's not the subject of our meeting. I'm asking Senator Elephant a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u236	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, how do you assess the cooperation of agricultural advisory centres with agricultural universities so far? And can there be any change in this field? I think something needs to be changed. And will the centres operating in the structure that you are proposing at the moment after these changes in the law be able to establish closer cooperation with universities, for the benefit of Polish agriculture? The aim is, among other things, to bet on innovation and on mutual development, both forms of advice and research carried out at agricultural universities. That's one question. The second question is... what do you think will be the most important element that will occur the day after the changes we are debating today? What will be the most visible element of these changes? I'm mostly talking about benefits. And the third question, which concerns whether such a centralised structure of centres will not stand in the way of the policy related to the regionalization of Polish agriculture, with the structure of Polish agriculture, which is very different in our country. Do you have any idea of how to support the fact that, so to speak, regionalism? In my opinion, these differences in the regions over the coming years cannot be eliminated and thus the Polish agricultural structure can be harmonised. These centres should therefore be conducive to these activities of the Ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u237	Thank you very much for this last question in particular, how to support regionalism. I'm going to give this on a specific example. Yesterday we were working on... We are preparing to harmonise the organisational structure of new centres, to create substantive and non-essential structures. There will be departments or departments of substance and non-materiality. We're analyzing what they're supposed to be, what they're supposed to be about. Because right now it's from Sasa to the forest, in different ways every voivodeship approaches it. Here's the thing, there's this... groups that work for counseling, in different ways... it's all different. We have departments, but their tasks, the distribution of the accents here is the bulk farming, there are small farms, there is agrotourism, and there is classic agricultural production... That's what we're gonna do. We're gonna regionalize. Those who are interested in agriculture know that Polish agriculture is diverse. This is, I don't know, 0 to 100. The Polish agriculture is 600.800 thousand small farms, that is, the agrarian structure, that is, the out-of-election areas, the land recovered. Soil quality and quality of agricultural services, rural development, infrastructure... All this needs to be differentiated. It's not like you can put a space rocket where you drive an old type tractor. These regional speeds need to be defined, diagnosed and selected for them... This is what the unity of management is supposed to be about. We manage different agricultures, different needs, but we do it in a uniform, uniform way. I think that's the key. Doesn't centralization disorganize... I think it's convincing what... It's just that we have to do it. Right? Colleges and advisory units. When I came to the resort, I started looking for where science is in this resort. I knocked and asked, "Maybe there's science here?" No, there isn't. I went from department to department anyway. There's science in eight departments... There wasn't one department supervising these cases. We have 10 institutes, we have over 40 agricultural universities. The environment comes to us, people come to us and just talk to us in a reasonable human way. On 10 institutes we have 6 PIBs, i.e. these more noble institutes. So the back room is. You're asking what needs to be done... We try on, we build a transfer... There will be a new department, there will be people, there will be specific tasks. It's about organizing this surveillance so that he's not in eight places, just one place to control it. It's gonna be October 1st, we have to change the statute, etc. We're already working on it. It will be a department of science and advice, including a unit of knowledge transfer and innovation. What are we doing for innovation? Everyone on this subject... For the first two, three months, when I came to the ministry, they were all in some kind of... They talked about this innovation, but there was no way to bite it, how to approach it. Because of some functional inertia that used to be I'm saying it with full responsibility. It wasn't... Maybe it was a new period, maybe it wasn't educated yet... SIR strategy at advisory centers. These SIRs are jobs where we have resources from the RDPs to launch innovation cells. And on the other hand, the last time we went to IUNG, we did... This is the best example of how exactly we want to work, because this solution will be replicated. We're talking about taking a shot here: universities and advisory units. Well, we did two-day training in Puławy, in IUNG in Puławy, where 32 advisors from all over the country, a representative group, and scientists from IUNG came. We asked them to come up with a question: what kind of offer do you have on the science side, what exactly is it, what areas and... On the other hand, there were counselors who defined their expectations for these areas and how we could do so. So we created this first map. But we're going to replicate this solution. It's supposed to show what the institute has to offer and what it needs advice. It's gonna be made of... And we're gonna replicate it like this in all the other institutes. Let me rephrase that. In the development programme we have two actions, a transfer of knowledge and innovation, in which we will have money. Consulting will get money, will be with the agency announcing competitions for the given voivodship and our scientific implementation... But we want to see the real quality and whether it will not be necessary to invite experts not only from industry institutes, from universities. Anyway, we're doing that I.D. It's been in some kind of formula so far, but now we want to give it a very specific quality and get the resources for it. We do not want to take money from advice, but we want to pass it on for advice so that there are benefits for farmers. And continuing training. We have funds in the Rural Development Programme for continuing training for farmers in agricultural advisory centres. Yes? As far as universities, agricultural advisory units, knowledge transfer are concerned, we are working on this cooperation infrastructure and on implementation. And here, one of the steps is the situation that has existed so far. [[And yet, Mr. Marshal... the question of the most positive element of these changes the day after the entry into force...]] Well, the day after... Let me rephrase that. The day after... I have here a list of what we have to do: organizational regulations of 16 centres, new, developed organisational statutes for these centres, 16 regulations of social councils, price lists, approval of annual programmes of activities, their preparation for the next year, at this moment we are already beginning to work on financial related issues, i.e. on financial law, later approval of annual... Financial plan, price lists It's right here... First of all, I think that the day after this will begin to look for good organisational solutions, but also to accept farmers about these changes. It's so heavy. You can't answer in one sentence here. There will be organizational work, and the first as if the effects should happen, I think, over a certain period of time, because all of this here must be a process. You can't do one act... That was a good question, a good... I'd like to say yes: you can't do one act... You can't say we have nothing today, and there's an atomic bomb explosion tomorrow. The bomb can only destroy us, right? So we need to open a process to build trust and organisational work. The simplest way is to say this: one day after that nothing will happen, there is a process needed and persistent work and that is what we are prepared for, and that is why we are building it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u238	Thank you very much. Senator Augustine. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u239	Minister, I have been in contact with the staff of agricultural training centres, agricultural advice centres and farmers who use their services on several occasions, and these meetings have shown that the evaluation of these centres is generally positive. So I would ask you to refer to what the Senator rapporteur said, so negatively judging this staff. Is there really reason to say, first, that this staff is at all terrible, second, to share the Minister's opinion that only exceptions are positive, and in general it is terrible. I would ask the Minister to refer to this. I will not talk about other issues because I will address them during the discussion, but I would like to ask the following question. One of the reasons why the Minister for the functioning of the centres is weak was not to allocate all the resources that were directed by the budget to the task of transferring these funds. Then tell me how much more a year the ministry wants to spend on counseling and specifically on what. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ryszard Zarudzki: Good.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u240	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u241	I've been waiting for that question. It's obvious that not all the staff is... just like in every community. But we're diagnosing a reality that kind of determines these changes. That doesn't mean that this applies to the entire population. I agree with the assessment you presented to the senator that he is naturally... Mr. Senator, do you think if someone makes 1 thousand 800 zlotys, 2,000 gross, and has an education and five, six years functioning... Is he gonna stay in this company, or is he gonna go out and find... 'Cause what does the counseling center do? Free education, free experience... education in the sense that you go to training, that specialists come. And then companies buy what's better... It's natural, isn't it? And there are situations so absurd that... I fully agree with this diagnosis, only that it concerns a certain population of advisors, which has been conditioned by a situation with which it is difficult to discuss. If an experienced counselor hires an intern, and an intern earns 300 PLN less than... If this experienced counselor who takes care of him has 300 zlotys more, then I don't understand something. I know these cases myself, that... my colleagues, my friends who work... They've been... for all kinds of reasons. And in various ways these funds are trying, so to speak, to refine: 2,000 each. 500, 2,000 600. And they see me in Pomorskie voivodship That there are people employed who earn $3,000 at start-up. Something doesn't add up, does it? Something's not working here. I think they're always... Maybe they're just isolated cases, but if there's more of them, it means this system doesn't work, something's wrong here. Of course there's a lot of very good staff, I'm seeing her myself. There is a great deal of respect for this staff for what they can do for farmers despite such a difficult situation... But there's no commute, no kilometers... [[This is the senator...]] I agree with the senator's assessment, because it concerns a diagnosis that forces change. Even if it only concerns a certain part... After all, we must refer to a certain critical mass. But as in every population, it's all... Why are so many people gone? Why so many good changes that could have been made if it were... As a result, we'd have, I'm sure, a little bit, a better situation... [[And the voivode has money.]] Please? [[Budget.]] And now, we're talking about the budget and how much we need for the budget. That's it again. And let's remember that 157... the centers worked it out themselves and were still looking for different projects, so in different voivodships it was their invention that caused... This overall budget was higher by one more time. And you need... I agree with that. We asked the advisory centers to write for us... [[So how much do you get?]] The work is on, Mr. Senator. You can see the proposals. I get a call from the accountants at the advisory centers and they say we're in shock, Minister, we're in shock. I can tell you where the accountant... And we have information that he hasn't met... He works at the facility, but he hasn't met... They see the proposals made by the Ministry, to what extent we ask for an increase in the budget. In June there was the first fitting. We've introduced a three-year threshold: 60 million, 70 million, 80 million for three years so that we can set a path like this. But this is just the first fitting. Now we are discussing what is possible and what is not, and in mid-August it will be like another approach to this. Here's what I'm gonna say: I'm gonna be happy, I'm gonna be happy, I'm gonna be happy, I'm gonna be happy, I'm gonna be half, and we're gonna grow... Half.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u242	Thank you very much. Senator Jackowski, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u243	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question as to whether this proposed change, Minister, in your opinion, will lead to the possibility of a real increase in EU funds for this sector, which is agricultural advice. Will assigning the structures of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development to agricultural advisory centers result in the possibility of increasing EU funds for this important sector of advisory, namely de facto Polish agriculture? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u244	From the very... Again, because I didn't understand the question. [[Voice from the room: It will grow...]] I didn't understand the question. [[Voice from the room: Maybe during the break...]] But please, please, I respect your senator very much and... [[You're welcome.]] [[The question is: will the change in the rules for the supervision of agricultural advisory centres have any impact on the level of EU funding for this activity? Thank you.]] Mr. Senator, there's two things to tell. I want to go back to the senator's words, who is trying to discount what we want to say here, because you have raised a very important issue. Let me remind you: in the previous period... Mr Senator, I would like to say very strongly that the use of advisory services was EUR 350 million from the RDPs in 2007 316 million were taken away. Repeat: 316 million. I just can't understand it. I've made a table, we have a summary, I'll really send you an analysis, because we're talking about the funding that led to the situation that it is. 90% reduced... It was from my department that we made a summary, now the monitoring committee for 2007 and 2013... And I say: do me what was in the beginning of 2007 and how much is in 2015 and what were the transfers. And I see that they just robbed advice from EU funds. Well, he just doesn't argue with it. Not much, 30%... so the training was less than 11 million euros. I'm talking about the euro, I'm not saying less about PLN 316 million. And for that, thank you, because it's justified. We want to make a system, Mr. Senator, which, first of all, would close... Besides, we are moving towards a different procedure for regulations for RDPs. Fortunately, it was possible within the framework of this... It is about advisory services, the possibility of training the advisers themselves, as well as the continuing training of farmers, and individual support to the advisers themselves. And as far as I'm concerned... And here we are proceding regulations, they will be launched in the first quarter, just as part of the whole package of changes in the functioning of advice and support for the restructuring agency, which will have a new task, namely technical assistance, which has so far been designed, I would say in an incredibly adverse way. And I've got forensics and analyzes on it, too. We have more money... And thank you for that question, too. For the Rural Development Programme, the previous coalition negotiated EUR 8.5 billion, with national funds of 13.5 billion. I have now closed the programme for the period 2007-2013, which was started by Law and Justice, and it was EUR 17.2 billion. So there is much less money and now there is no possibility to join, there is only the possibility effective use and certainly not taking this advice, which has already been deprived of these measures before. And we can't make up for those losses and what happened. I'm sorry, but it's just counseling and working with my advisors... When I talk to them, they say... They call me and ask me: how will the Senate accept today, that means when will this change take place? They're calling, asking, does that mean August 1st? And I have to cool them down, say, calm down, let's work together, because... such absolute, good cooperation... I was at a very good meeting yesterday. Very good, this is emphasized by the current directors of agricultural advisory centres. We're not looking at who it is, we're working to keep it going. Ask Director Macha, he will confirm that there is very good cooperation at this moment in the search for better solutions. And that's what I'm asking for. Because we all have one goal: to look for the best solutions and to support our agriculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u245	Thank you very much. Thank you, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u246	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Somehow I missed it. I say, I know the Minister from somewhere. I only now realized that the Minister is from Pomerania. [[Joy in the Chamber]] And I am very happy to say that I like your commitment to what you say, what you want to do. I must also say what my colleague once said: a good story is half a success. And I have to say, you've got it under control. Now I will move on to what is the subject matter, or actually everything about the draft law. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on the question of one of the senators... I'm gonna start with this: what's the first day? Of course, the statutes, the regulations, the price list, the plans, the election of new members of the social councils and, of course, the election of new directors. 'Cause I'm sure it's gonna have to be done. If it's not on the first day, it's on the next day. Maybe in Pomerania not. Mr. Minister nodded that he didn't But in general, as I know life... May I be wrong as to why Law and Justice makes such laws. Among other things, these are human resources laws. God forbid, in Pomerania, Mr. Director, there's still one who's a good director. And probably those who are the heads of the centers, I can also say that I know them from the good side. And we'll see what happens next. Now, with regard to the matter of the direction itself... the direction is known. The State of Law and Justice is pursuing the centralization of the State. And this is another element... everything that the government will do is better than what the government is doing. Answer... I asked here, during the questions asked to Senator Chróścikowski, as an outstanding expert in the area referred to here, how regional policy differs in 16 regions from state policy. I received the answer I received. Well, I'm not gonna argue with the answers. In any case, I did not find out the difference between regional policy in the senator's region and agricultural policy. I've been informed that there's probably some inaccuracies that there's something wrong with the property. Ladies and gentlemen, you have to ask yourself where in everything you say are the farmer and the problems of the Polish village. I graduated from the agricultural academy in Poznań, but the wood technology department. Therefore, I met with farmers during various kinds of celebrations at my beloved university. But somehow I didn't hear anything about everything you're doing to make it better for a farmer to be cheaper... I don't know, there's probably other goals to be set there. I've heard of property, different agricultural policies. And the state just loves centralism and you think it's through privileges, grants, appointments and so on. It's better managed. Of course, yes. In dictatorships, Emperor Bokassa did. If he loved people of culture, he gave them more for culture, and if he didn't love farmers, he gave them less. This is a system that you're going to... Well, I'm not accusing the Minister of going so deliberately in this direction. Minister, I've read to myself what it's like in other countries. After all, I know only what is being done in Poland, from the information I have obtained from the senators who are members of the committee, from the Minister. And I think to myself, maybe it's a good move. I've read what it's like in other countries. And in order not to bore you here, let me briefly say: there are countries such as Germany, Denmark or France, where such activities are carried out. Just like in France, by associations and local governments. You don't do that. The State is responsible for the agricultural strategy, which is all that concerns major strategic projects. After all, this small, voivodship agricultural policy is, Mr. Senator, different in Podkarpacie and another in Pomerania. And please... I think you know that better than anyone. Poland should therefore be responsible for what concerns a large strategy. But individual issues should already be dealt with there on the spot. In many of the countries I have read about here, local government organisations carry out the tasks of state policy plus all that results from the specifics of the region. Of course, a private farm advisory system is being built in Germany, Denmark, Finland and Switzerland. In Germany, autonomous agricultural advisory wheels were created by farmers themselves. So that this system is diverse. But I also found two countries that have a similar system, and I think, Minister, this is a good example. Among other things, the Italians and the Greeks have a system completely subordinate to the State. And the minister, so to speak, with his wisdom, decides what happens in a given region. [[Very good.]] I'm reporting for now, Senator Waldemar Bonkowski from Pomerania... So... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[I'm sorry, but I didn't give you the floor.]] ...I would like to say that as far as this central system is concerned, this Italian-Greek system has developed its shortcomings by the Office of Seym Analysis in Poland. The system is subject to the political decisions of the government. There, of course, in Italy. Not with us, it'll be different with us. Excessive bureaucracy and slow response to what is happening in agriculture. Taxpayers' services They are much more expensive than advice in other countries, where the level of agriculture is probably much higher than in Italy and Greece. And the system in these countries is completely inflexible. Therefore, I would like to say this: that the state, as politicians of Law and Justice, does not love local governments and you want to centralize everything, you want it in Warsaw to decide how the various elements of social life are managed... And I'd like to make two more remarks. Self-government, Minister, this is Poland too. This is also a legal system in Poland. And also about the grants, Minister. I am pleased that the Minister will seek a greater grant for agricultural advice. 'Cause I'm sure there's a need for that. And the more counseling, the more likely farmers will benefit... Only with regard to the transfer by local authorities: if any government has allocated a grant to anything other than what it was given, it has broken the law. In Poland, grants cannot be made for any other purpose than those received from the state budget. It's just an explanation. So that I would like to thank you for your attention and ask you to be more understanding and understanding for Polish local governments, which, as well as the Polish government, care for a better service, for a better quality of life, and in some cases are that, so to speak, closer to these services, closer to the citizen and more quickly react, they carry out all this inexpensively. And also what concerns counseling... The aim is to ensure that advice is also implemented, as in many countries, of these progressive ones, by farmers' organisations, agricultural authorities and not just by the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u247	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u248	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The subject of our discussion is not really agricultural advisory centres, but farmers themselves. If we are talking about the success of Polish agriculture in the European Union, if we are talking about modern agricultural production, we are saying that Polish agriculture is increasingly based on new technologies and knowledge. It is worth expressing respect for farmers at this point. But we should also say that there was access to this knowledge, there was access to counseling. And you can see the results. The hunger for this knowledge was and is so great that even private advice centres for farmers had something to live on. We need to invest in this, agree, we need to move on, because Polish agriculture cannot stop in development. It's still a branch that requires modernity. And in order to achieve that, it's not necessarily... Maybe it's a mistake to think that just a change of assignment will do anything. Let us consider why here and there it happens that the level of services is not appropriate and their availability is insufficient. Sometimes the level of staff isn't what the Minister said it was because there's not enough money. There is no need for great philosophy and organizational changes: it would suffice to give sufficient resources and, if necessary, to mark them accordingly so that they cannot be transferred to any other purpose. Neither the organizational regulations nor the statutes will change the situation, Minister. These are inter-organizational things, and what is needed and what would have the same effect in the structure of the self-government are the appropriate standards for these services. The government's duty to all services contracted is... They'll never work well if it's not clear, well-marked standards. Because only when there are standards, there's money, you can think of proper supervision. This is the contact that needed to be taken care of. Voivodeship with its services should not work in substance, it should always be done by local authorities. I think they'll do better because they're closer to people. Agriculture varies, needs vary, the vagrant doesn't work here, and the voivode, having standards in her hand and knowing what order the money is going to be, should, on behalf of the Minister, control the local authorities whether they are doing their assigned tasks well. This is the optimal structure. What you are proposing is rather an expression of the general belief that manual central control is better than decentralised management. Well, I represent an absolutely opposite view. And one more thing. It is very good that training for farmers will be part of the work of the centres, but it is also necessary, and perhaps above all, to ensure the amount and quality of training for the instructors themselves, so that they can raise their knowledge, improve themselves and be smarter than those to whom they are going. Minister, you could do it cheaper, you could do it meaningfully, removing all the shortcomings that you are right to score here. It must be remembered that we were at the beginning of the road: this task has been passed on recently and should be improved as it is done in a well-organized country. Centralization is pushing us into this channel that Senator Czarnobaj was talking about, and we will most likely be witnessing all these shortcomings that can be seen in Italy and Greece, which could be avoided and achieved by what the Ministry rightly wants to achieve.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u249	Thank you very much. Senator Florek, please speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u250	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Minister said it was a very expected project, that in the campaign you promised... This is repeated repeatedly in many of the laws we have made here. I'm going to mention a law on land that's probably already being amended or is about to be. Well, I can only refer to what was before, and what is now, because I had the opportunity to transfer ODRs to the local government. Also, I can say, it was a very expected project. What changes have occurred? It is probably different in different voivodships and here we can discuss. I can only tell you about my voivodship, where I'm sure this change was very good, very good. Probably now there is a problem with the estate, because the Minister mentioned here, mentioned Wielkopolska Voivodeship. I can't really say what's going on because this item was put on the agenda today, so there was no time for that. And it wasn't foretold before. To prepare for it and to do a full reconnaissance of what this property matter is about. But at the moment, it is to be expected that the local governments will, of course, fight with the Minister. Because this task hasn't been passed on so long and these sudden changes... Well, no sudden change, if we don't have some experience, some time for observation, if we change something from year to year, is obviously not appropriate, because it is not known if it will bring any benefit or benefit. We are discussing this amendment of the law today, but I do not want to enter into these matters in substance, although I could justify a lot. For example, why should you move? Is that for the marshal? Because there is a department of agriculture that deals with such matters in a specific way, etc. What is the case with EU funds, e.g. in my voivodship? What does it look like to fund those exhibitions that the Minister was probably at? How does the marshal care about the estate? I think a few million were in the previous budgets this year, as I recall, has one million in the budget. I could talk a lot about money, about what the marshal does. But this amendment to the bill only applies to one thing. It's just a staff matter. This is a specific exchange of all directors and, of course, there is a further exchange. Well, the minister gives the statute, gives the rules of procedure, appoints the members of the council, does everything the minister does. It's all up to the Minister. I even asked. And then I read it. For directors and deputies. And it turns out that even the deputy directors are appointed Not as the voivode once appointed a minister at the request of the director. So we're going into complete centralization. The Minister is responsible for everything, everything the Minister knows best, everywhere across the country we will do the same, from above down we will have written down what is to be done in a given province. Where's the self-government? Well, I think it's another fatal personnel bill that only leads to an exchange. There's been a reduction in the required education, and now I think a bachelor's degree is enough to be a principal, and you had to have a master's degree. Well, we're lowering the requirements right now. Probably the point is to match them to people, because not all of the previous requirements would meet, so there's going to be a bigger group to choose from. So it's just nothing more than... This amendment only applies to a stage that I'm sure will... The Minister said at first that it was very expected, etc., but not as to what this law really concerns. Because I don't think it's just an exchange, an exchange of staff. Every change, every amendment now comes down to an exchange of staff. And that's another amendment that leads to staff exchanges and nothing else. I don't see anything substantive here. I can discuss changes in substance, but here we are told: we will exchange staff, and then we will see, we will discuss further. It has to be done together, it can't be separated, because it never works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u251	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u252	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! A very interesting discussion followed in connection with this point in our order, namely during the examination of the Law on the amendment of the Law on agricultural advisory units. High Izbo, here we have dealt with such a dispute, which was in a sense substantive, but also in a sense not substantive. Well, I remind you that agricultural advisory centers until the year, probably, 2009 until the coalition of PO-PSL pushed through the bill that changed it. In general, they were subject to government administration. The structure was that the voivodship competent for the area of the voivodship in which the voivodship was located exercised substantive supervision. And in 2009 there were changes and agricultural advisory centers passed to local governments. We can say that we have a number of instruments and indications that this was not the best time for agricultural advisory centres for several reasons. I'm abstracting here from the political thread and the direct translation of politics in seymikas into personnel casts, into personnel movements. But I am also referring to some kind of wealth management philosophy, which was equipped with agricultural advisory centers. I think that the findings of the Supreme Chamber's audit in this context have shown a number of irregularities that we have encountered. Minister mentioned in the debate And that's a valuable thread. The fact that agricultural advisory centres have been somewhat deprived of the possibility of using EU funds is that more than 300 million have been taken from the RDPs, if I understand correctly, for earlier agricultural advisory tasks. You also mentioned that we had ♪ Could you have had it? ♪ 16 different agricultural policies, because basically any sejmik or any self-government board of the voivodship could conduct its policy, implement its concepts and these policies could be different. They could be different in Mazowsze, others in Kujawsko-Pomorskie, others in Czarnobaj's colleague in Pomerania, and others in Małopolska, etc. Therefore, it seems that the principle of returning to government administration in this case even more justified because it will be governed by the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, i.e. the person who is constitutionally responsible for this department of public life in Poland... This seems reasonable, but there are other examples. High Izbo, I very well remember the discussion that took place during the 1998 local government reform. It entered into force on 1 January 1999 at the time when local government voivodships were established. And then there were these push-ups: whether the health care should be governed by local governments or government administration. and the same with regard to other services The discussion about how it's supposed to look. And life has shown that, for example, when it comes to things. artistic education, which remains the responsibility of the Minister of Culture At that time it was still the Ministry of Culture and Art, and now we have the Minister of Culture and National Heritage The fact that it was education, worse or better, but it had a stable situation, and with those sectors of education that went into the local government, it was different. I do not want to generalize and say that everything was wrong with the local government, but note that agricultural education, which remained under the supervision of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, has a more stable situation than agricultural education, which was or is in the power of local government. So we see that the subsidiarity principle must be taken into account in the discussion of whether something is to be governed by the government or by the local government: what is appropriate for a structure that is able to bear the responsibility and governance of the area, to leave in this area, not to centralise excessively, but also not to decentralise excessively. This is quite similar to what is going on between supporters of total private property and supporters of state property. There are areas where you can do better against one, I would say to liberal populism, that only anything private... Private entities are primarily driven by short-term or medium-term profits, while the State is able to pursue a more long-term policy which, in turn, is guided by other irregularities and meets other social or public needs. I would therefore like to draw attention to the fact that this law was also expected in the environment, at least as a result of the discussions I had with the representatives of agricultural advisory centres. In this industry, there is a need, above all, for stability, for a specific policy implementation. In this case, I am talking about the country's policy on agriculture and the adaptation of agricultural advisory centres so that they can do their best. I stress: "How best to work to advise, promote the development and rationalise the agricultural area. I am therefore very pleased that this law is being implemented. She was expected. And what the Minister has announced... We are waiting for a large law that will already define in detail the structures, tasks, pragmatism of the functioning of agricultural advisory centres. We are waiting for this law because it is extremely necessary because the Polish state faces huge challenges, not only within the framework of the common agricultural policy, which will now be discussed after Brexit. Sooner or later, as the issue of the status of the United Kingdom is finally resolved, this discussion will take place. Let us recall that the United Kingdom is the second or third EU payer and has always raised the question of the common agricultural policy as a question of dispute. Finally, we have... well, it's frozen right now, but finally, some kind of finale. It's either this way or the other way. The TTIP, the Treaty on Mutual Investment between the United States and the European Union, will find arrangements. TTIP poses a huge challenge and threat to European agriculture, not only Polish, because agricultural products in the European Union must meet different standards and other standards must meet products in the United States. We are simply threatened with a flood of cheap, mass food from the United States, emerging from various biotechnologies, which do not necessarily have to be healthy for consumers. So that in this context One should also look at the fact that the State should have a centre that responds on an ongoing basis to what is happening within the European Union, to what is happening on European markets and which would advise producers and farmers to do their business properly and rationally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u253	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Chróścikowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u254	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to refer to the statements of my adversaries, who pointed out that I had treated the workers of the farm advisory centre so negatively. I just showed him his condition. The Minister has confirmed my conclusion. For many years, I have worked very closely with these people at many conferences, many meetings. I appreciate their work and expertise. Only that the system, which introduced local governments, led to the fact that many of the best professionals, really professionals, had left, among others. also by the so-called. the political changes that have taken place. These people were often thrown out in 2007 and later. Some had to leave for purely economic reasons. I'm sorry those people aren't there right now, so great professionals who've been studying. It's a good thing that they're doing private counseling today, that they supplement, at some moments even better... At the last conference, I even accused the Minister of opposing public and private advice. You even accused me of showing too much private advice. I showed at this conference that there is room for such advice, and for such advice that there must be competition. And that's a valuable thing: competition. Because no one in this room today is gonna tell us that our competition is dead, but the competition is healthy, respectful of each other, not destructive. We're talking about modern agriculture. Well, ladies and gentlemen, after all the changes we've made in agriculture, today we're envious of the French, the Germans, the Danes... We are all envious of the fact that we are indeed Europe's leaders in some areas. They come and peek and learn from us, we have better technologies, we can do better than in those old countries. Because we're very hardworking. Only, unfortunately, the common agricultural policy still does not give us the chance to be fully competitive, and that is what we need to watch, so we have to do and win where there really is a difference in payments. I would like to point out that where there are fewer payments within the European Union, we are competitive. Because we can do it better. And where there are payments, that's where we're going to lose. Because we can't even up this competition. And as for all the innovations we're introducing in agriculture, these new technologies We win whether it's in court or poultry or in many other areas, I could mention where we win, say, in Europe, we are among the best in some areas, even in the world. But for that, you need real advice. And today, it is scientific institutes that, on the example of fruitage, have taken over counseling, because agricultural advisory centres have neither human resources nor resources. People who work very closely with each other prefer to consult directly from institutes in order to use professional advice there, because the ODRs are hard to get home with. And it should be good, science should cooperate directly... And I'm hoping that's gonna happen right now. At the last conference, which took place on 3 February, there was such good material presented by Dr. Zbigniew Brodziński from the Centre for Rural Development, from the Department of Spatial and Environmental Economics of the University of Warmia and Mazury in Olsztyn, cooperation of scientific circles with agricultural practice and the future. Great material, I recommend you read it, because it shows how neglect is, what are the disadvantages, why it is, why so... What can you do, how can you do... The Minister has it because he was also at the conference, he knows what elements scientists show, what needs to be done, like advice... So I think this direction we're talking about... Counsellors have asked many times... And I'll even tell you what was at that conference; the counselors said, when are you going to do it? The Minister promised: yes, ladies and gentlemen, you will get this in the second quarter. On 28 June, our committee prepared this, i.e. in fact in the second quarter of the Sejm adopted it, in accordance with what you promised and as expected at this conference. I think this is the fulfilment, Minister, of the commitment you made when you said you would definitely have it in the second quarter. Well, of course, they were expecting decisions from July 1st, but probably a month late will be... well, that's better than it would have been if you hadn't. When it comes to self-government... Ladies and gentlemen, I have a lot to do with local governments, I have two terms in the local government, as the chairman of the commune council, the councilman of the Sejm and a member of the board. I know perfectly well how local governments work. I feel like a self-government officer. But believe me, some things need to be... In particular, what is a common agricultural policy requires the cooperation of the ministries in this area. At least at this stage. I remember that under the SLD, the powers of the Minister of Agriculture were taken away from him, the real estate agency was taken away, and it was immediately handed over to the Minister of Transformation. That's probably what the ministry was called back then. To privatize immediately, sell this land, give it back, not put it in management... We said, "We will give this to the Minister of Agriculture to make it better to manage, to manage the earth." We did it then. The supervision of the Minister of Agriculture over the KRUS has been removed, it has been transferred to another department, because it was said to be centralized, the KRUS will merge and it will not be. We said in 2005: we will restore the supervision of the Minister of Agriculture, because the KRUS case is an important, important, modern one, because that's how the French have it, that's how the others have it, and it doesn't have to be destroyed. We've brought it back, it's working to this day. and today most of us farmers are grateful that it was then, even in 2005 and 2006, that we did. Today we say the same thing. I am counting on it, Minister, because we give you a high level of confidence that what you are doing will be carried out and will be as expected by farmers, scientific centres, institutes, that you will do the right thing. Next question: why not agricultural authorities? Well, ladies and gentlemen, we need to start with the agricultural self-government, change the agricultural self-government law and make it work. Because today is a terrible bill and a terrible functioning of agricultural chambers. After all, there, in this act it is written that agricultural authorities can take over the tasks of agricultural chambers. And why do local governments not take it when they could have taken it so far, and if even from the marshals' offices they could have taken over some of the actions? It's in the bill. Unfortunately, local governments, agricultural chambers haven't worked out the way we'd expect them to. If you take the example of French 'Cause it was said that the French authorities are doing it. See what the system of their functioning looks like in France and compare it. Because if there are strong union headquarters there, FNSEA is the strongest union headquarters, if there is an agricultural chamber there, which is not a compulsory agricultural chamber as in Poland, but is an economic chamber, I would say, in which farmers join voluntarily, as long as both organisations are piercing and cooperating... There advice is provided to strong organisations. In Poland, I believe it will take many years of work to develop strong trade union organisations, which will be federations and which will work together with chambers. Then maybe it's time for the Minister to say, please, take it on yourself and do better if you can. In the French system, it is. But there must be time to expand this operation and function better, and in the future it should be as stated in the Act, that agricultural chambers can also provide advice. They lead them on their own, but they are not fully able to do it as the local government or the supervisor can do, as the proposal now provides, is the Minister of Agriculture. Of course, there are many things to remember and to say what should be done. I'm really sending it back to the materials because I've organized a lot of conferences. I have a lot of appreciation for the staff who worked at these advisory centers and still works, but I hope it's time for new people. And what's showing up... Just because someone's graduated from agricultural school doesn't mean that he's the only one who's a good expert to advise, because we need a lot of specialists in counseling. If someone has completed computer science, is good and can work in these fields, today we also need IT advisors. If someone is a good engineer ..and it is about different areas. It didn't necessarily have to finish the agricultural academy, but it could be a great advisor. Today, chemistry advisors... I mean, look at this. There's plant protection products. Today there are highly specialised areas where there is a need for high qualifications, and not necessarily, as they say, only agricultural education itself. Scientists are also paying attention to this. In many areas, in marketing, in various areas, today it is necessary to have professional advisors. But they must be well paid, Minister. Because a teacher who is poorly paid often only works out of necessity, and is not always good because the better run away, do not want to be teachers. It's the same with counsellors. If they're well paid... [[Time's up.]] ...and there will be demands for them, we as farmers will be grateful that we have great professionals that we can use their knowledge, and we will compete even better on European and global markets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u255	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. There are no legislative proposals and there are no speeches made to the protocol. I would like to inform you that the vote on... [[Voice from the room: Close...]] Please? [[Voice from the Chamber: Close of discussion.]] I'm sorry. The discussion is closed. Thank you. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Dear Senators, as announced for the consideration of the fifth item of the agenda, this is the Law on the amendment of the Law on Higher Education and some other laws, we will proceed tomorrow, after a second reading of the draft resolution on the 100th anniversary of the founding of the Union of Earthlings. We proceed with the examination of item six of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on the amendment of the social security system law and some other laws. I would remind you that this project was introduced by the Legislative Commission and is included in print No 72. The committee's report can be found in print No 72 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Jan Filip Libicki, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u256	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Joint Legislative Commission and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on a proposal for a law on the social security system. This project we are presenting is a project resulting from the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal. The Constitutional Tribunal held on 28 February 2012 that Article. Article 114 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The Social Insurance Fund pension law is incompatible with the principle of citizens' trust in the State and the rights resulting from the article. 2 and Article 2 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 1). Article 67 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Constitution of the Republic of Poland. The work on the implementation of this judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal was also undertaken in the previous term of office, but unfortunately they were covered by the principle of discounting. On 13 January, our committees decided to take the initiative and then to hold the 2nd meeting on 6 April and 10 May 2016. First, a little bit about the challenged recipe. The contested provision, which, with the entry into force of the judgment of the Tribunal, had no effect, allowed, by reference to the Article. Article 114 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Act on pensions from the social security fund, to reopen proceedings before the pension authority and to touch on the final decision granting the right to a pension. From the content of the article. Article 114 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 It follows that the right to benefits or their amount shall be re-established either at the request of the person concerned or ex officio if, after the decision has become final, new evidence is submitted or new circumstances existing before the decision is taken and affecting the right to benefits itself or their amount. In view of the standards of the democratic rule of law resulting from Article. 2 of the Constitution, the Court drew particular attention to the fact that the repealed provision allowed the possibility of unlimited re-qualifying the evidence which constituted the basis for the first decision confirming the acquisition of the right. This means that the final decision could be verified from office to the detriment of the recipient at any time, even when the error of the decision was due to the error of the pension authority. Furthermore, by ruling on the non-compliance of that provision with Article. Article 67 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Constitution, the Court has made it clear that the re-fixing of the right to benefits must be justified by exceptional circumstances in order to maintain a certain balance between the legitimate interests of the individual and the public interest. I would like to stress here that the justification for this judgment does not call into question the appropriateness of giving the pension authority the power to verify a decision unduly determining the right to benefit or wrongly fixing its amount. However, it sets out such constitutional standards as have been used in a direction to draw up a draft presented here by me to the High House. The Court has stressed that it is necessary to establish an appropriate limit beyond which it would be unacceptable to touch decisions so that the sustainability of decisions by public authorities is not apparent. At the same time, the Court did not make a distinction as to the reasons for amending or repealing the decision of the pension authority, but merely stressed that it was necessary to balance the interests of the individual and the public interest and that this necessity obliges the legislator to lay down clear grounds for moving decisions which would prevent arbitrary and unlimited action by public authorities. And I would like to say that the first meeting on 6 April received a lot of comments from the institutions concerned. These were comments mainly from the Ministry of Labour, but also from the Department of Social Insurance, the Supreme Court, the Ministry of Justice. Therefore, and for this I would like to thank you very much, all these institutions, together with the representatives of our Legislative Office, have set up a working group which has substantially redrafted this project. This was primarily about harmonising terminology, because it concerned, as if different groups of pensions, both farmers and those who are in the general insurance system, and those who belong to uniform groups. And this new redrafted project was presented at the meeting of the Legislative Commission and the Family Committee on 10 May. In this proposal, we propose that the revised rules should not refer, as originally was the case, to the provisions of the Code of Administrative Procedure, but autonomously on the basis of each of the amended laws, both the grounds for amending or repealing the decision and the time limit and the authorities responsible in this regard. And so the amendment I have presented includes the following articles: Article. 114 Act on pensions from the Social Insurance Fund; art. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Act on Social Insurance for Farmers; Art. 32 Act on Retirement Provision of Professional Soldiers and Art. The 33th Law, in general, is what I'm going to put it this way. It's about supplying officers. Consequently, a new title has been given to this law following the work of the working group; as a leading normative act, the Social Insurance Fund pension law was chosen in this case, i.e. the law to which the Court referred. This was particularly raised by representatives of the Ministry of Labour, also present today at our meeting. The method of regulation adopted assumes that the amended provisions are and will clearly specify the grounds for repealing or amending the decision. These are reasons modelled on those mentioned in Article. 145 of the Code of Administrative Procedure, but the proposed wording of the Article. 114 Law on pensions from FUS, Art. 32 Act on Pension Security for Professional Soldiers and their Families, as well as Art. 33 The Act on Pension Security for Officials and their Families also takes into account the specificities of decisions issued by their competent pension authorities. In short, according to the proposal, the reference to C.P.A., which was to be included, inter alia, in the text of the amended article. Article 114 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Act on pensions from the Social Insurance Fund, will be replaced by the calculation of the grounds for moving decisions. This is, among other things, a codification that was specifically requested by the President, Professor Seweryński, at the meeting of our committees. Particular attention should also be paid to clearly indicated time limits for moving decisions, including a 3-year time limit limiting the possibility of repealing or amending decisions due to an error on the part of the Authority itself. It is also important to maintain a defective decision on the market where its repeal or amendment would result in a significant deterioration in the personal or material situation of the person concerned due to his or her age, health status and various specific circumstances. I will refer to this further because there was also the attention of the Ministry of Labour, which appeared after the meeting of our committee, which I allow myself to report. This solution, which I will say again, will apply to all decisions, so that regulations will be uniform both for the general sector and for this security, which is available to soldiers and servants. The problem was therefore resolved differently than was proposed before the meeting of our joint working group. There was a mandatory repeal of the decision in the event of an appropriate basis and a referral to the case in a specific manner under which the benefits may, but do not have to, be granted by way of exception. In this sense, the relevant so-called regulations. uniforms are similar to those to be used by the Social Insurance Institution. With regard to cases brought to an end by final judgments of the court, the FUS Pension Act continues to maintain the principle that the pension authority shall issue a decision correcting the condition established by the court's decision provided that the new decision is favourable to the person concerned. The submission of grounds for amending the judgment of the court in a manner adversely affecting the person concerned is intended to give rise to a request by the pension authority to reopen the proceedings. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1... in the added 1f a separate point is also devoted to the issue of initial capital, as this institution is subject to the regulation of Article. 175 Act on pensions from the Social Insurance Fund. In the case of the Act on Social Insurance of Farmers to be amended, Article. 2, it is proposed to introduce a reference to the Social Insurance Fund Pension Act, as this will allow for uniform application of the provisions of the two laws. At the same time, the use of the term "pension rules" will be clear for both the decision-makers and the beneficiaries of those decisions, since the meaning of the phrase is already defined in the farmers' social insurance law. In conclusion, the proposed provisions clearly and clearly lay down the rules for the rejuvenation of pension decisions, they do so in a coherent manner, while respecting the distinctness of the question of the rejuvenation of decisions granting the right to pension benefits. The proposal also appears to be in line with what was expressed in the Court's statement. I would also like to say that, after our meeting of the committee, the Ministry of Labour made clear comments, comments were made, I would say, such purely technical ones from the Ministry of Justice and from the Supreme Court. As regards the comments of the Ministry of Labour, they concerned clarification of when such a decision could be amended and to what extent it may affect the situation of the person who is subject to it. There was one point made by the Ministry of Justice regarding, as I say, the use of terminology which will harmonise the rules for both farmers' insurance and the general system. As far as the Supreme Court is concerned, these were purely legislative remarks. I have them here, and in the next mode, when I speak in the discussion, I will allow myself to take them into account. I am saying this so that the State of the Ministry of Labour knows that this comment which came after the meeting of our committee, when we decided that the bill is to be examined in plenary, will be tabled as my amendment, if you will allow me. So much for me. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u257	Thank you very much for the very detailed presentation of the committee's report. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. Let me remind you that the applicants have also authorized Senator Libicki to represent them. Who among your senators would like to ask a question? You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u258	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask the following question: this is how we implement the 2012 ruling, which is four years later, the previous term of office has failed to do so; do you therefore agree that the current term of office, which is still very short, is characterised by the fact that we are implementing socially very important judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal with great urgency and attention?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u259	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u260	Mr. Senator, I can say this: this is not part of the report on our committee's proceedings. I can say it like that... Not in the last term of office in the Legislative Commission, I can say that the Legislative Commission, as far as I know, then took over 200 initiatives It just so happened that this initiative was not among the 200; it is good that it is now. But consider it my opinion, the senator, the parliamentarian, not the committee's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u261	Thank you very much. No more questions, I see. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you.]] Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? Hello, Minister Marcin Zielenecki. Hello, Minister. Come on in. [[I'll set up the speaker's height. I'll raise the...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u262	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy presented his position to the original version of the bill amending the Act even then on the social security system by letter dated 12 February 2016. I would like to say that most of our comments have been taken into account in the new version of the bill. First of all, we welcome the Commission's resignation from the proposal to amend the article. 83a Act on the social security system. It is worth noting here that the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 2012 concerned, in fact, the assessment of the constitutionality of the Article. 114 Act on pensions from the Social Insurance Fund. And it can be said that the solution in the Social Security Act is more universal, and it also applies to short-term benefits. So that we pointed out that these accents should be spread out differently and that in fact the amendment requires an article in the first place. 114 Act on pensions from the Social Insurance Fund. With regard to the consequence of another accent distribution, this is the consequence of giving a new title, a new name to the bill. The Commission proposes that this be a draft law amending the Pension and Pensions Act from the Social Insurance Fund and some other laws. For these reasons, which I have just mentioned, we also welcome this proposal. We also positively assess the change as if the way in which an important issue is dealt with is regulated by the project. Namely, it's about this. And that is, you can say, a positive proposal, a positive proposal. Where reference is made to Article, the Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 145 of the Code of Administrative Procedure, which regulates the grounds for reopening administrative proceedings in exceptional cases, simply introduce into the Social Insurance Fund Pension Act an enumerative calculation of the grounds for repealing or amending final pension decisions. In conclusion, in the assessment of the family, labour and social policy department, the Senate's draft in the version accompanying the report in print No 72 S, the draft law amending the Act on the social security system and certain other laws, aims to implement the indications contained in the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 28 February 2012 in respect of the implementation of the demands arising from the article. 2 the Constitution, and in particular the principle of citizens' confidence in the State and its rights. The solutions proposed in the draft will limit the possibility for the pension authority to intervene in the final decision of the party's powers, while leaving it the right to assess the correctness of the findings of those decisions, as well as the possible re-recognition of the final case. The following restrictions on the possibility of ex officio verification of the final decisions of the pension authority are foreseen when the decision is to be amended to the detriment of the recipient and its failure is due to the error of that authority. I would like to mention one more thing, namely the proposal to give a new wording to the article. Article 114 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1g bill. The rapporteur presented the substance of the amendment. We in our written position, in our written opinion of 8 June 2016, give a very detailed justification for the need to rephrase the provision of the article. Article 114 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1g, both by stating the direction of the case law of the European Court of Human Rights visible in those judgments which referred to the question of verifying the final decisions of the pension authorities, and by referring to the case law of our Supreme Court. In many judgments, there is a definition of an excessive burden. As regards the original version, we proposed that the pension authority be obliged to waive the repeal or amendment of the decision where this would entail a significant deterioration in the situation of the person concerned due to his or her personal or material situation, age, health status and other circumstances. After an analysis of the caselaw, we consider that a better definition would be the excessive burden on the person concerned because of his/her personal, material, age, health or other special circumstances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u263	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute of questioning to a government representative. Any of you wanna ask me that question? I don't see any calls. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u264	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I briefly, because I was already talking about this at the end of my speech as rapporteur. First of all, I would like to say that this is the detail that the Minister was talking about, which is a change in the wording that speaks of a significant deterioration in the wording of an excessive burden... I'll take it from here. Therefore, I have 2 amendments... sorry, 3 amendments that concern this, these are amendments 1, 5 and 8. Amendment 1 talks about this, and Amendment 5 and Amendment 8 are the consequence of the revision of this term. So I allow myself, as suggested by the Ministry, to make such an amendment. The other amendments... In total, there are 8 amendments. I was talking about Amendments 1, 5 and 8. Come on. Amendment No 2 is a proposal from the Ministry of Justice It refers to the fact that in art. 2, in Article 4, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 of the Act is replaced by the following: "Right to pension benefits referred to in Article. Paragraph 18, or their amount, shall be re-established at the request of the person concerned or ex officio under the conditions laid down in the pension legislation. It is simply about bringing together the rules that concern the insurance of farmers and the general system. Finally, amendments 3, 4, 6 and 7 are purely legislative amendments, as suggested by the Supreme Court. I, after consulting our Legislative Bureau, took over, and here I am allowing myself these amendments to be handed over to the marshal. Thank you very much. I think that we will meet with the representatives of the Ministry, I hope, at further stages of legislative work on adapting this judgment to the Constitutional Tribunal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u265	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. There's no conclusion... Oh, I inform you that the legislative proposals have been made in writing by Senator Libicki. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the conclusions? No. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Mr Marshal, I would very much ask you to set a deadline for the committees so that the vote can take place at this meeting.]] Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been submitted, the Senate directs the bill to the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions. Mr Senator has requested that the committees be scheduled to prepare an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the bill at this Senate meeting. If I do not hear the votes of objection, I will find that the Senate has accepted the motion. I don't see why not. We proceed with the examination of item seven of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on Judicial Costs in Civil Matters. I would like to remind you that this project has been submitted by the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and is included in print No 122 and the committee's report In print No 122 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Zbigniew Cichoń, to present a joint report of the draft law to the committee. Come on in, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u266	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The proposed amendment is the result of the examination of petitions received from persons who wanted to benefit from the benefits of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 13 November 2012. It concerned the finding of non-compliance with the Constitution of a provision which suspended the right to collect pensions for persons who have not resigned from work. It was not about everyone, it was about those who had already acquired the right to retirement, at the same time working before the entry into force of the law which introduced the amendment, such a ban. It was about people who had already been in such a situation that they had been linked to work, and they had to decide by 1 October 2012 whether they were choosing one or the other, i.e. work and pension suspension or retirement and resigning from work. On the one hand, they claimed that they had suffered damage as a result of the fact that they had not been paid this pension and on the other hand that they had the right to resume the proceedings under Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the application of this Regulation. 4 the Constitution and the relevant provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure. And they pointed out that the reopening of civil proceedings was linked to the need to pay court fees. The point was therefore that they wanted regulation at all, so that it would not be necessary to proceed. In this situation, the committee faced a problem: what to do? We have come to the conclusion that it is difficult to regulate this in a law in situations where these are not the same circumstances in the case of perhaps hundreds or even thousands of people, any circumstance is different, that it should not be enough to regulate the matter by law, because this is not possible globally, in any case in my opinion it would be a very difficult task, if not impossible and to do so. How much to allow these people to claim, especially as there are precedents, people won in court, reaching damages claims, making it easier for them to do so by exempting them from payment of court fees, which normally occur on each type of case, and they amount to 5% the value of the claim sought. Hence the proposal to include in the catalogue exemptions in the article. 96 Law on judicial costs also this case. We have also extended this to all other cases where people claim from the State Treasury, which are the result of damage caused by action or omission of state bodies, that is, what is mentioned in the article. 4171 civil code. And that's how it was accepted.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u267	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants have also authorized Senator Zbigniew Cichoń to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? Welcome to Minister Luke Piebiak. Thank you. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative of the government present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Civil Code. I would like to remind you that this project has been submitted by the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and is included in print No 152 and the committee report in print No 152 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Mark Pęk, to present the report of the draft law to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u268	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present a report by the Legislative Commission on the draft law amending the Civil Code Act, print No 152. The committee was held on 23 June. The Commission considered, at first reading, the draft law submitted by the applicants, amended it and requested the Senate to adopt a uniform draft law and a draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. Ladies and gentlemen, two words on the purpose of the proposed law. The bill follows the request of the citizens' petition P IX-02/15 addressed to the Senate Marshal on 24 September 2015. The petitioners asked for an amendment of the article. 6471 of the Civil Code in such a way that this provision makes clear that the conclusion of a contract of works between the contractor and the subcontractor is subject to the investor's consent in writing under the conditions of nullity. According to the petitioners, the article. 6471 k.c. implies overly broad investor responsibility He and the contractor are jointly and severally responsible for the obligation of the subcontractor under the subsequent construction contract, whether he was aware of the essential provisions of the contract or his knowledge was limited to information on the presence of the subcontractor at the construction site. The petitioners stressed that the problem of joint and several liability of the investor and contractor for the claims arising from the subsequent construction contract is particularly relevant to housing cooperatives. On the basis of the article. Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Act on housing cooperatives cooperatives are obliged to settle the construction costs back to the buyers of the premises overpayments over investment costs Within 6 months of the date on which the building was put into service. This places the housing cooperative at a disadvantage as the subcontractor's claim is subject to a three-year limitation period, in accordance with Article. 118 Civil Code. In practice, this means that a subcontractor may act against a cooperative with an outstanding claim on which the latter no longer has any funds. In conclusion, I would like to say that the bill is aimed at such an amendment of the article. 6471 §5 of the Civil Code, so that this provision makes clear that the investor is jointly and severally liable for the payment of the remuneration for the works carried out by the subcontractor, provided that the investor gives written consent to the conclusion of a further construction contract between the contractor and the subcontractor. Different interpretation and procedural problems arise in practice against the background of this provision. There is a difference in court practice. The option in which both the investor and the subcontractor are affected is possible. I think this petition is the beginning of a trial to find some kind of golden measure here. It can be imagined that there is indeed a real collusion between the general investor and the general contractor, who agree on bankruptcy, so that the whole chain of subcontractors and subcontractors has no one to claim from. The idea of amending the Civil Code in 2003 was that this joint and several responsibility of the investor should be as broad as possible. Unfortunately, sometimes the practice was that the investor in the court proceedings claimed that he had not seen any subcontractors at the construction site, there was an investigation of whether the subcontractor was actually involved in the investment, and there were judgments adverse to subcontractors. It seems that if the subcontractor obtains such written consent, his situation will be more stable, because the investor will not then be able to explain that he has not given his consent, there will be no full investigation of the so-called implied consent. This petition was quite widely consulted, both in terms of government consultations and... At the committee meeting there was a minister present, who is also present in today's plenary. Former opinions of the construction community, investors, former opinions of the National Council of Courts, the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction, as well as the Public Prosecutor of the General Treasury. In general, I think the opinions are positive, although of course there are reservations. But I would sum up these reservations so that they draw attention to the need for more comprehensive regulation. But I think the opinions were consistent about the substance. I think that's it. Like I said, the committee... Oh, I forgot one more thing. The Commission recommended the adoption of a draft law with one amendment. Originally, applicants requested that this provision be constructed under the condition of nullity. However, attention has been paid here to some inconsistencies, legislative inconsistencies. The failure of the investor's consent must not affect the nullity of the entire investment process, the whole contract. The conclusion was therefore that we would apply the rigour of the lack of responsibility of the joint and several investors here. That was the conclusion of the committee. Please accept the bill as suggested by the committee. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u269	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants have authorized them to represent Senator Robert Mammothov. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much. Minister Łukasz Piebiak is with us. Hello, Minister. Would the Minister, as a representative of the government, like to speak on the draft presented? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Justice Łukasz Piebiak: Yes, very much.]] Please, Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u270	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Government, I would like to make a positive position on the initiative that you have just presented to the rapporteur. I'll be brief. Of course, as Senator Mammoth mentioned, maybe this is not a comprehensive solution to the problem... [[Senator Crack.]] Senator Pop, I'm sorry. Senator Mammoths was the leader of the subcommittee meeting, which is why... As Senator Pięk rightly said, this is not a comprehensive solution to all the disputes that are taking place in the construction process. But it seems to be a solution worth supporting. Because it actually makes the situation in the construction process clearer, because we are introducing a written form and a clear effect in the form of the lack of joint and several liability of the investor. Those rules that came into force in 2003, a little bit... As Senator Pęk mentioned, they met the expectations that subcontractors couldn't wait to pay. And it seems that these provisions in the case law of the general courts and of the Supreme Court have begun to be interpreted in a far different way. In fact, we are at such a point at this point that it is actually not known how the court of first instance, the court of second instance, the Supreme Court... The case-law is completely unstable. This shows that the current situation cannot continue to be tolerated, something needs to be done. What I am proposing, which has just been presented, is a step in the right direction, is a step advocated by many entities involved in the construction process, a step that, I think, will eliminate much of the disputes by means of a simple document in the form of written consent. He's either there or he's not. We will avoid all these tedious findings, the result of which cannot be guessed, because the caselaw It's very uneven. I also confirm, as the rapporteur said, That there is more comprehensive work on the regulation of civil liability in the construction process, i.e. the revision of the article. 6471 civil code. We work closely with the Ministry of Development, but we do not know when the work will be finished, we do not know what its effect will be. Perhaps, if it is reasonably efficient, at some point these projects will be integrated and a comprehensive regulation will be created. I am convinced if these works do not end within a reasonable period of time with a good, satisfying project . that this project is a project worth supporting, which will stabilise the situation, which will finally eliminate the situations described in the petition, i.e. situations where the investor is forced to pay twice for the same. If it's the result of some kind of error on the investor's side, or maybe even a judicial error, then there's still some way to understand it, things like this happen. But there are situations where there's some conspiracy going on right now. Perhaps from the criminal side they should be prosecuted, they are prosecuted when possible, but sometimes it is difficult to detect, and as a result the victim is sometimes a sub-contractor, sometimes an investor. I am familiar with the increasingly emerging phenomenon of judicial case law, which is that often collusion occurs also at the stage of the general contractor and subcontractors. It is a fairly new phenomenon, but unfortunately it is becoming more common. There are situations in which we are dealing with a public investor, with public funds for the construction of motorways, with the construction of various public utility facilities In accordance with the unfair subcontractors, and with the previously planned bankruptcy of the general contractor, who, acting also in accordance with the unfair subcontractors, so prepares the facts that later these subcontractors, often linked capitalally and personally with the failing, report to the investor, to the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways, to other public investors. At this point, the planned amount for which someone has committed to perform a given public contract, e.g. the construction of the highway, it turns out to be a completely fictitious amount, because the sub-contractor's claims are twice or three times as much. In this way, the taxpayer's pocket is drained. This will also be shortened if the amendment enters into force. This amendment may not be comprehensive, but it seems that it actually balances the relationship between the contractor, the contractor, the general contractor and finally the investor, i.e. all those involved in the construction process. I therefore ask your senators to support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u271	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative of the government present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. Would any of you like to ask a question? You're welcome, Senator. Senator Łyczak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u272	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! [[Minister, come in.]] May I? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Justice Łukasz Piebiak: Yes.]] Since the Minister used the phrase very often that this amendment was a step in the right direction, the rapporteur hoped or thought it was. And my question is very simple: will this amendment, which we are making here today, be definitely interrupted by this thieving activity that has taken place so far. Just like the Minister mentioned here. In construction, by the highways? Will it make subcontractors feel safe? My question is going this way... Can the Minister give me a clear answer? Because right now, the answers have caused, at least in my place, such confusion... And I'd like the information to go, because it's going to go into the world. Can subcontractors feel safe after this amendment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u273	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u274	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Will the subcontractors be able to feel safe? I think that they will be able to feel more secure than they are today, if they fulfil the condition which is clearly indicated in the Act now, that is to say, they will obtain the written consent of the investor. It's actually pretty obvious that if you want to reach directly into the assets of an entity that is not a party to a civil law agreement And that's what we're talking about, because we're reaching out to an investor's assets that no contractual relationship connects to a subcontractor. You have to have something, you have to have some proof, best tangible, pretty obvious. The written form of the document is such proof that it was agreed that the investor agreed that, in the event that the contractor, the contractor, the general contractor, would not pay, I would be able to go to the investor and the investor would, if he agreed to it in writing, be obliged to testify. Of course I won't tell the senator or the High House that 100% He may feel secure. Of course, if the investor who granted such permission in writing is the State Treasury, the local government unit, we assume that they are always solvent, so there will be no problem. But it can also happen that an investor is a private law entity, which is or will be insolvent, and so I cannot say with full responsibility that thanks to this legislative procedure all the problems of the construction market will be resolved. Oh, no. It may be that the general contractor will go bankrupt and the investor will go bankrupt, then the subcontractor will not be satisfied and certainly not 100%. But I do not know whether we are able to remedy this situation by legislative means.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u275	Thank you very much, Minister. You're asking Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u276	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Question one: don't you think I'd call it problems, especially subcontractors, that is, the weaker side They're usually our companies doing specific jobs. With performers who often do not want to pay them, these are contractors who have one desk and a mobile phone for their entire facilities, and sometimes even less because of the laptop? And such performers Untested for own use of their own equipment, their own base, their own funds for the execution of the investment, are simply selected in tenders. And then it starts spinning. Once it's done, once it's done. That's the first question. Second question, more specific. In this added or actually amended provision, §5 we safeguard the interests of the investor, but also of subcontractors. Because if he's got the investor's consent in writing against the contractor... So it's like... The kind of cases I was just talking about. But only on the first level. Because we don't secure the subcontractors' interests at the second level compared to e.g. subcontractors at the first level, which is his principal in this case. Don't you think that if this is to be sufficiently comprehensive, the interests of sub-contractors at lower levels should also be secured?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u277	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u278	With regard to the first question of the senator, of course we know from the practice of the contractor's casus with one desk, which in fact has nothing other than that he won the tender, so now he has to perform the works resulting from the contract that was concluded as a result of this invitation to tender. From the perspective of public entities of the state or other public entities which are obliged to apply public procurement law... Since that contractor with one desk met the criteria that were provided for in the specification of the essential terms of the contract, the public body has no exit and concludes a contract with it. There is still a problem with who of the subcontractors, who will actually do the work, will sign contracts with such a contractor with one desk that has nothing else, no assets from which an execution could be initiated. Let me put it this way: this is a question of economic risk and potential counterparties should consider whether a contract should be concluded with such an entity. The problem of some carelessness, because that's the way to put it, in the choice of contractors by entrepreneurs you can't... I am afraid that using civil law methods, we are not able to solve this problem, because this is a problem concerning certain market maturity and caution in this market. Not everyone is honest, not everyone is solvent, not everyone wants well. As for the second question, which is the question of this chain, of course the chain is the problem. Art. 6471 in the version currently in force and in the proposed version only concerns the first relationship, and further subcontractors This Regulation shall enter into force It is a matter of choice. You made your first choice as High House: the project does not apply to all actors At least it's in this shape today. Any floors down there, only one entity. I'm not an expert in the legislative process, and I don't know if we can change that now or not. I'm going back to the point: is it right or not? This is indeed a problem and we are working with the Ministry of Development on a comprehensive regulation of the construction process in the Civil Code. We are seriously considering this, and we often argue about how to regulate it, how to go deep down with this chain of subcontractors, because it is always a deviation from the normal rules of civil law. A situation in which the construction process will be multi-storey may be complicated: there will be an investor, general contractor, then some contractor of a larger piece of work, then subcontractors under it, and at the end of the supplier of goods, service providers, etc., i.e. this example Mr Zenek, who makes electrics or anyone else. How can a potential legislative tool control a large construction process when a large investor can actually be sued by 2,000 Zenków in the future? I'm sorry to be so blunt, but it's such a figurative comparison and, I think, in order to illustrate the subject, it should be considered by the senators. It's not easy. We are wondering whether we should go further, and if so, how far we should not lead to absurdities that will cause the construction process to be actually impossible or be subject to a gigantic risk. Let's remember, maybe I repeat myself. The State is one of the major investors in the construction market, so the State must somehow organise this construction process. The regulations must be applicable, and maybe I will respond in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u279	Thank you very much, Senator. [[Excuse me, if you don't mind, Mrs. Marshal...]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u280	I'll admit, Minister, this response has been a little more disturbing to me than the fact that you... In a sense, you suggested that subcontractors should check the status and economic condition of the main contractor represented by that man behind the desk, let's call it. Don't you think the investor is primarily responsible for this? [[Why, shouldn't they?]] If this is a public investor, and there have been cases in the previous term... In particular, he is responsible for preventing paradoxical situations from occurring, when after the biggest investment boom, e.g. As far as highway construction is concerned, construction companies are going down. She was responsible for that. I don't blame you for that. The previous coalition, for this type of investment. You don't think it's mostly an investor, especially a public investor, who should be required to check the contractor, to check, for example. His machine park? [[It's a question of tender.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u281	If the senator asks me about my personal opinion, which today is of little importance... Well, I can agree with that. Only then we should discuss a change in public procurement law, not a civil code. I am trying to move in the area of the amendment we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u282	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Minister? I don't see... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Łukasz Piebiak: That's where the senator reports...]] You're welcome. Senator Grodzki, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u283	Thank you very much, Marshal. I'm a little concerned about Senator Czerwinski's statement. Undoubtedly the direction of these changes is good, I say it from my own experience as a hospital builder. Those five years of investment cost me more health than 30 years of surgery. The construction world is guided by completely different rules than normal people, I'd say. I feel like... Wouldn't it be appropriate if this change, as I say, was undoubtedly beneficial At once try to connect with the amendment of the Public Procurement Act? In my private opinion, the Public Procurement Act, especially as it stands, is one of the elements that hampers the development of the economy. This dictation of price and dumping, which leads to multiple bankruptcies, down from construction... It's not an individual case, it's a system case. I have a question for the Minister whether such works, let's call it, are being carried out.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u284	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u285	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! High Izbo! I don't know, honestly, if they're being run, because this isn't our government department. I could know about it by hearing it or because we got something in the consultation process. I don't think we're gonna get one of those. I suspect if they're being run, they're still at a stage that... It didn't go outside, even within the government administration.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u286	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Łukasz Piebiak: Thank you.]] Are there any more questions? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski is the first to speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u287	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to point out that the proposed amendment to the article is being carried out. 6471 §5 of the Civil Code is a step in the right direction, which has been said several times in this Chamber. According to the current wording of the Article. 6471 §5, which relates to a construction contract, which enters into a contract with a subcontractor and the investor and contractor shall be jointly and severally liable for payment of the remuneration for the works carried out by the subcontractor. This provision has been in force since April 2003 and gives rise to a number of disputes in practice, as evidenced by the rich case law of the Supreme Court. For example, and justification for the need for amendments, it is sufficient to indicate a few recent judgments together with the thesis. Judgment of the Supreme Court of 18 June 2015, letter III CSK 370/14, concerning the joint and several liability of the investor towards the subcontractor for the payment of remuneration for construction works. The investor's agreement to conclude an agreement with the subcontractor in accordance with the judgment of the Art. 6471 §5 of the Civil Code does not entail a joint and several liability of the investor to the contractor with prior presentation by the contractor to the investor of the contract with the contractor, but entails that liability with the fact that the contractor has carried out the works. In the case of active consent, there is no reason to make it subject to the presentation of the contract to the investor and to the need for this agreement to be given in advance, i.e. prior to the performance of this contract by the subcontractor. An important objective of the Article. 6471 §2 of the Civil Code is that the essential provisions of the contractor's agreement with the subcontractor should be known to the investor or with whom he had the opportunity to become acquainted, rather than what was the source and method of obtaining that knowledge by the investor. It does not matter who presented the contract with the documentation to the investor, contractor or other entity, because even the investor's knowledge of their content from other sources is sufficient, e.g. knowledge of the subcontractor in terms of the works carried out by him, and the circumstances of the investor's behaviour result in his acceptance for the performance of the specified works by the subcontractor. The second Supreme Court judgment, judgment of 20 August 2015, letter II CSK 551/14, concerns the criteria for assessing the effectiveness of the investor's agreement to conclude a construction contract with a subcontractor. According to the judgment, the assessment of the effectiveness of the investor's agreement to conclude a construction contract with a subcontractor requires first the determination of the type of agreement of the investor and, secondly, the examination of whether the conduct of the entities involved in the implementation of the contract prior to the granting of that agreement was correct and consequently whether the investor's consent had the effect set out in Article. 6471 §5 of the Civil Code. A further judgment of the Supreme Court of 27 May 2015, the signature of the II CSK 483/14, concerns the absence of a copy of the contractor's general contract with the contractor and the liability of the investor, the refusal to present a document by which the party may lose the case, the legal consequences and the form of the investor's agreement to conclude the contract for construction works between the contractor and the subcontractor. According to the judgment, on the basis of the current provisions, the position that no one can be obliged to command against himself is not only contrary to the principle of material truth as set out in the article. 3 of the Civil Procedure Code but disregards the procedural obligation of the parties pursuant to Article. 248 of the Civil Procedure Code. In accordance with that provision, each person must submit to the court's order a document which is in his possession and is evidence relevant to the resolution of the case, unless that document contains classified information. In addition, the party may not refuse to present a document if the damage it would have caused is to lose the case. Following the investor's agreement to conclude a contract between the contractor and the subcontractor, there is a joint and several liability for others on its statutory side, i.e. The contractor, the debt. The essence of this solidarity is the obligation of the investor to fulfil the performance and to bear responsibility for the performance of the performance by the contractor. The investor is not a co-debtor in the performance of the commitment. Therefore, the significant differences in the legal situation of the investor and the contractor, in particular their obligations, i.e. their behaviours, need not be identical, and the internal relations resulting from the contract of the investor The scope of the investor's liability is limited in Article. 6471 §5 of the Code to the remuneration of the subcontractor due from the contractor. The written form under annulment shall be reserved only for the contract concluded by the contractor with the subcontractor and to the agreement of the investor, contractor or subcontractor required by Article. Article 6471 (2) and (3) of the Civil Code shall not apply. 63 §2 of the Civil Code and may be expressed by any conduct which reveals it in accordance with Article. 60 civil code in a sufficient manner. First Resolution of the Supreme Court of 17 February 2016, signature III of the CZP 108/15, concerning the consent of the contractor to conclude a contract for construction works with the subcontractor in an implied manner. The legal basis of the claim sought and the facts cited by the party. According to the judgment, the effectiveness expressed as implied in the Article. The 60th Code of the Investor's consent to the Contractor's conclusion of the works contract with the Sub-contractor shall be subject to the possibility of giving him access to the provisions of the Contract, which shall determine the extent of his liability as provided for in Article. 6471 §5 of the Civil Code. The legal basis for assessing the claims of the sub-contractor against the investor shall be determined by the applicant in the factual circumstances. If the plaintiff has indicated the legal basis for the claim, the court should give notice to the parties, providing for the possibility of a judgment on a different basis. Numerous statements are correct that this provision, in its previous wording, overprivileged subcontractors at the expense of investors. The purpose of their joint and several liability for payment of the remuneration of the subcontractor is merely to conclude a contract with the subcontractor and carry out works by him, while the agreement of the investor is required to conclude the contract under §2 of the provision in question, but it may be a silent, implied agreement. In practice, the investor often did not have actual knowledge of the content of the contract with the subcontractor, which could lead to a situation in which he first fulfilled the performance towards the contractor, for example. for construction works, and then other subcontractors made claims to him. The proposed amendment aims to eliminate the undesirable situations identified by making the contractor's remuneration conditional on prior authorisation by the responsible party to enter into a sub-contract in writing, which will eliminate situations where the responsible party did not have full knowledge of the content of the sub-contract, and eliminates numerous litigations in which acceptance of the subcontracting works is contested. I will also mention that according to the original draft art. 6471 §5 had the following content: The contracting contractor and the investor and contractor shall be jointly and severally liable for the payment of the remuneration for the works carried out by the subcontractor. The investor shall be jointly and severally liable for the payment of the remuneration for the works carried out by the subcontractor if he has given his consent referred to in paragraph 2 in writing under the conditions of nullity. In the amendment proposed by the Senate Legislative Commission in print No 152 S, this content has been amended. After the words "§2" and stating that consent can be expressed in writing... i.e. it should be expressed in writing, the words are under the strict principle of the lack of responsibility of the joint and several investors. In view of the comments made, the draft amendment should be assessed positively. The amendment of the Legislative Commission concerning the rigour of non-approval in writing, i.e. the rigour of joint and several liability, as opposed to the original proposed in the draft rigour of annulment, is appropriate, since the rigour of annulment would be in conflict with the wording of §2 of this provision, which is not amended and which provides for explicit consent by implied means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u288	Thank you, Senator. Senator Piotr Zientarski speaks. [[Piotr, short.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u289	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! During the committee meeting, I questioned the original version of the rigor ad solemnitate, whether it was the rigor of annulment. It is good that my attention has been taken into account and that there has been a change. I think that at this stage it is indisputable. But, ladies and gentlemen, my doubts remain, they concern at all the purpose of this submission. Senator Łyczak's question was here... Mr. Senator, the security problem for subcontractors was solved in 2003. And this law was the right, very right questions of Senator Czerwiński. It certainly weakens the subcontractor, especially in the second and lower rows. Because there are general contractors and other subcontractors. The Act also strengthens the position of the strongest party to this process, i.e. the investor. And there's no question about that. Well, the Minister also admitted that, because this is objective, this is an objective, non-negotiable statement. The position of the investor is strengthened, the position is weakened... Because there's no way it's getting stronger... [[That's not true.]] ...or that it doesn't amplify anyone at the expense. [[That's right.]] Abstractly, it doesn't strengthen itself, it strengthens itself at a certain cost. Why? Because, please, my dear senators, there is such a situation that, in some cases, we deprive ourselves of the power of command, we restrict the proceedings of evidence. I already talked about it at the committee meeting. This is a problem of the form of legal action that is carried out under the rigour of nullity, ad solemnitate, or under the rigor of ad trial, i.e. for evidence purposes. Please note that the Civil Code for Evidence requires, if a certain amount is exceeded, that a legal act be carried out in writing, but that such written proof will not be inconclusive. And here, ladies and gentlemen, is the situation that is quoted Very right, thank you for that. By Senator Grabowski, the caselaw of the Supreme Court, the resolution of the Supreme Court explains the matter. After all, the existing law and the caselaw, which has supplemented this law, have actually led to a clear situation: there should be a written agreement. It's not like that last bill didn't eliminate, it didn't indicate... [[She didn't commit...]] But it's a business matter. Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, I said And the purpose of command, precisely command, in a situation where we have the exclusion of joint and several liability, for various reasons. Well, for example, the general contractor made a contract with a sub-contractor and this sub-contractor or someone located even below was not even aware... Or the contractor, for example, represented himself as an investor and made a contract, and the contractor made it... [[There's no abstraction here.]] Oh, no, there are situations... Of course I do. I'm not talking about the situation that an unauthorized person will sign it anymore. And then it's over, there's no responsibility. And that person who put his money, his job, his materials, remains, so to speak, on ice. And the investor has the opportunity to verify... the resolution of the Supreme Court is clear, precise. I think she's quite enough. And it's definitely making it worse because it's losing, and once again, I'm pointing out... Because there are different situations. The written contract has been lost and there's no way... Everyone knows he did it, and the investor avoids responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the situation we are creating by means of this law. Therefore, I believe that this law, in the light of the case law and the Supreme Court resolution just cited, is absolutely redundant. Unreasonably strengthens the position of the investor and weakens the status of the subcontractor by agreeing in his often very legitimate interest That will simply be without a proper salary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u290	Thank you, Senator. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u291	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! First note. The state should protect the weakest above all. Who is the weakest in the investment process? Well, usually whoever's downstairs, that's the last one, let's call him that. A sub-contractor who actually does some work. He usually owns one car, one truck or several. I'm talking about investments like this. construction of the highway. Unfortunately, he generally bears responsibility and loss for: firstly, the bad legal situation and secondly, the bad will of those who are above him in the investment process. Well, if there was good will, there would be no problems, but unfortunately there is bad will. Sometimes it manifests itself simply on the verge of crime. What about this amendment we're proposing? She actually protects the investor's interest because she says that the investor has a joint and several responsibility only for what he signed. So it eliminates the second sentence in §2 of the aforementioned Article. 6471 civil code, which introduces implied consent to robots or to the entry of a sub-contractor into the investment process. Our amendment in the form that it is still in at the moment says this: if something is not in writing, then it's just I'm talking about the investor. The investor is not responsible for this if the investor did not sign something, he did not sign it. Well, that's good. But notice, Minister... I am clearly reading our amendment: the investor is jointly and severally responsible for the payment of the remuneration for the works carried out by the subcontractor if he has given his consent as referred to in §2. But §2 only talks about the relationship between the investor, the contractor or the main contractor, as it is called, and the subcontractor. He doesn't say anything about the relationship between the contractor and the next contractor. So it will not protect the investor if there are ambiguities between subcontractors at lower levels, before understanding the consent of §2. So this kind of relationship stays in the old system. There is no change in this case, our amendment does not change that. For this reason, since we want to protect a public investor, I understand the Minister I propose, and I will make such an amendment in a moment on the hands of your marshal, in order to simply add in this sentence What does §3 sound like, which is already here? We're talking about art, of course. 6471, because we refer to him as a civil code. §3: The agreement of the investor and the contractor is required to conclude a contract with a further subcontractor. The second sentence of paragraph 2 shall apply mutatis mutandis. What does that mean? That in this case We complicate the investment process, but at the paper stage. Fortunately, we simplify it at the stage of possible court command, perhaps even reducing the number of court trials if there were. Not only contracts between the contractor and the subcontractor, written contracts, will require the consent of the investor if they are to be responsible, but any agreement of the subcontractor with the next subcontractor will require such written consent at the next level of the investor. That means if the investor didn't sign something, it's not in writing, it's not responsible. But this paradoxically also protects a sub-contractor, everyone below. Why? 'Cause a sub-contractor like that would, of course, read this article. He will be aware that if he wants to claim from every next one at the top, over him, in the investment process, he must first have a written agreement and, secondly, he must have the investor's consent on this agreement, and then he can claim funds from him. As I said, it will, of course, complicate the investment process, because there may be a lot on the big constructions of these subcontractors and these levels, but it is better to complicate it at the moment when contracts are made, so that everything is clear... However, a written contract is a written contract, it is rare for a sub-contractor, Senator Zientarski, to lose it in construction... Well, for that sort of thing, you have to be special, really... Maybe it's best not to go into the investment process... [[Voice from the room: Documents can burn.]] So if you have a written agreement confirmed by the investor, you can demand payment from him, each of the subcontractors at each investment level. In this way we protect all, even the weakest, at the lowest level, but also, as I said, we protect the investor, because he will also be responsible only for what he signed. There is only one more effect: that the investor, especially the public, will be fully aware of how this investment is carried out, first of all he will know who is involved in the investment process, and it will not be implied, just clear, just a set of papers is enough to apologize for the expression And he'll know who's responsible and who's doing it because he signed it. I understand that if someone signs, they'll want a copy of such a contract for evidence. That's why I'm putting this amendment on your hands. Another issue is what appears in the accounts, which unfortunately has a bearing on what the Minister mentioned earlier in his conspiracy. But they are not collusive contractors with subcontractors, they are unfortunately collusive contractors with investors. It comes to the fact that the investor pays the contractor for all the work done, everything seems to be fine, only that when the contractor starts to find out if he gets the money, what money and what money for it, it turns out that for example. there is a change in size... I had this example recently from a conversation in my senator's office. The contractor got a certain amount, only it turned out that he made a 50 m lawn, I fired instead of a 100 m lawn, although it was actually 100 m. And the question was what then, what about the matter of command and how this contractor was supposed to recover his money, because he really put more and more work into it. Minister, this is really what should be done in this novel that you mentioned in this major amendment. I hope we'll be involved from the beginning to avoid such trials. 'Cause it happens all the time, but subcontractors are cheated because they're weaker. Unfortunately, it is not a free market, and the subcontractor will not check whether the one he signs with has only a desk, whether he has a whole machine park, for a simple reason: because he is a weaker element and he has to sign this contract. We, as a country, should at least provide it with the possibility of defending both against This concerns the question of the agreement in writing and the consent of the investor As well as after, i.e. in terms of the command of facts which should be recorded in the contract, and sometimes are not and are accepted in such a way as to be implied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u292	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Robert Mammoth, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u293	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! We need to get back to the purpose of this bill. Senator Zientarski has said a lot of things about this, but this is not about... Ladies and gentlemen, let's imagine this situation: some institution is issuing a tender and in the specifics of the tender it says that the general contractor cannot hire subcontractors. The general contractor does not tell his subcontractors that there is no such consent, and hires them, and then such a subcontractor will always be lost. Today we introduce the principle that the general contractor in writing... If, in a tender specification, it says that it is possible to hire subcontractors, then the investor must conclude such a contract with subcontractors and in court each subcontractor has to defend himself, it is to show that he was a contractor. This year, I was dealing with a situation where the contractor made all the electricity in one of the supermarkets, but the general contractor broke down and didn't pay him. This contractor turned to the investor, and the investor said, "Lord, I didn't know you were doing any work there, I don't know you, and I won't pay you." The contractor invested his material, his work... There have already been two trials and both lost. You see, if he, referring to a civil court, showed that he had an agreement with an investor, the investor would not have the right to withdraw from anything. That's the purpose of this whole bill. You're welcome... I agree with what Senator Czerwinski said: this is a very good move. I don't know what it looks like on the part of the ministry, but I'm in favour of securing even the smallest sub-contractor so that he doesn't get cheated. If possible, I will, of course, support such an amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u294	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Piotr Zientarski will speak. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u295	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Dear Senators! Mr. Applicant's representative, Mr. Senator, I don't think you've fully analyzed the essence of this... Once again, I stress that I fully agree with Senator Czerwinski and I have said this: there is an inequality of sides here. To date, the case law, which is uniform, is not contradictory... The Supreme Court's resolution clearly speaks of written form. The written form was never excluded, and here the situation arises, that we deprive the command other than the contract with the investor in writing, which for various reasons may not be or may be lost. Such situations happen quite often. We've heard recently that money was found on the construction site in a briefcase that was supposed to be paid. I mean, the office could burn down, it could get flooded, and so on. After all, the loss of a document occurs very often, especially in construction conditions, in conditions in which a sub-contractor operates, which often does not even have a proverbial desk, only in some house his employees dress up and work, do the work that is actually the essence of this contract. And that is why I believe that we absolutely cannot weaken the weakest position in this investment process that this subcontractor has, which is very often at the bottom. I am applying for the rejection of this law because I believe that the case law, as I said, of the Supreme Court is unambiguous, uniform and applied by the courts. If someone wants to get rid of it through sloppyness and create a problem for themselves from the very beginning, that's his case. But I think the truth is clear: there is no contradiction in case law, the resolution is clear. Therefore, it is absolutely not appropriate to change this legal situation. [[Thank you, Senator. The request must be made in writing.]] And at the same time... The request must be made in writing. I'm about to file that motion. At the same time, I ask the Marshal to refer the bill to the committee in order to allow the vote to be held in this sitting. I'm filing a motion for your marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u296	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Mammy wants to speak again.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u297	I'm filing a counterclaim: for adoption of a law without amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u298	Then file a motion in writing, Mr. Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Andrzej Kaminski made his speech in the minutes. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm still waiting for my conclusions. Mr. Senator Piotr Zientarski has already submitted, Mr. Senator Mammothov will presently submit. I would like to inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted in writing: Senator Jerzy Czerwiński, Senator Piotr Zientarski, Senator Robert Mamytkow. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u299	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm going to say very briefly because of the timing, respecting your senators' time, but I think a few things need to be clarified. First of all, according to Senator Ziientarski's statement, the senator claims that the investor is always this strong, strong side, whose interests should not be taken into account. I remind the senators that this case was brought here by a petition from a housing cooperative that has no resources. It's the money that people want to live somewhere. And who was forced to double-pay. So it is not that the investor is always a great Polish or foreign corporation or state treasure, or someone else equally big, wealthy and skillfully moving in business, read: a great entrepreneur or a specialised state institution. This is often the housing cooperative. And it's not like this project is a project that bows to investors. It's a project that seems to reasonably balance these interests. It's not like he's anti-investor or anti-subcontractor. Contrary to what Senator Zientarski says, saying that we have a uniform, clear, clear position of the Supreme Court, we have absolutely unclear, uncategorized, divergent case law of the Supreme Court. Although we are both qualified lawyers, we seem to judge the matter differently. This is a system that still cannot be tolerated. So this is, apparently, a reasonable proposition for the investor, and for subcontractors. It creates a clear, clear situation when it comes to the arrangement of interests in the construction process. And it's not as it's said here. In particular, Senator Zientarski says so. It's that this amendment deprives someone of something. She doesn't deprive anyone of anything, because in order to talk about deprivation, this amendment would have to work backwards. And the law doesn't work backwards. Well, those who made contracts in the construction process... Yeah, but let's not talk about stripping 'cause we're not stripping anybody. We are introducing a new legal state in which there will be clarity: do you want to have joint and several responsibility? Take care of the document. We'll know who's responsible and how high. And one last thing, à speaking of the proposed amendment. I cannot support Mr Czerwinski's amendment on behalf of the government for the moment. Not because she's, I don't know, bad about assumptions, but because I'm afraid of one situation, and I want it to sound right now, and we're probably gonna talk about it at the committee meeting too. If we make such a provision that at any stage of the construction process we can obtain written consent, then I don't know... Well, that's my first impression, because I heard the sound of that amendment about 15 minutes ago, but I'd be afraid... I wouldn't want us to accidentally lead to such a situation, that if at every stage of the construction process everyone, from the investor down, i.e. the general contractor, subcontractors, further subcontractors, and sometimes it is even more extensive network... Well, if everyone has the authority to demand payment from an investor, I don't know if it can be interpreted that way. And if we were to introduce such a provision, it would not go in this direction. That the provision is clear, undisputed and therefore the investor responds to the demands of contractors at every stage, i.e. those from one stage may demand, those from the other, those from the third and those from the fourth stage... So that we don't lead to a situation like this... I see a threat here for now. Maybe it's exaggerated, I'd have to think about it, talk to my employees, and that's what the time will come. But I'm afraid there might be a regulation that will make the investor It doesn't matter whether the rich or the poor will pay three or four times for the same and will not be able to defend itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u300	Thank you very much, Minister. As legislative proposals have been submitted, the Senate is directing the bill to the Legislative Commission. Senator Piotr Zientarski has requested that committees be appointed a deadline for preparing an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the bill still at this Senate meeting. If I don't hear any objection, I'll find the Senate has accepted the motion. There's no objection. The motion has been accepted. Thank you very much and I am announcing a break until 7:25 p.m. [[Adjournment from 19 minutes 03 to 19 minutes 23]] I'm extending the recess until 7:35 p.m. [[Adjournment from 19 minutes 23 to 19 minutes 35]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the consideration of item 9 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the establishment of the Polonia Consultative Council. I would like to remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No. 196 and the report in print No. 196 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad, Senator Janina Sagatowska, to present a joint report of the committee on the draft resolution. You're welcome, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u301	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On 9 June 2016, the Senate Marshal sent a draft resolution to the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad and the Legislative Commission on the establishment of the Polish Consultative Council to consider it at first reading. Both committees met yesterday, considered the draft resolution submitted by the applicants at first reading and requested that this resolution be adopted without amendment. High Izbo, the Senate has been taking care of Poles and Polonia in the world since before the war. It is a great tradition, a glorious tradition that includes this concern for Poles scattered around the world, and we are now, as it is estimated, about 20 million, that they should be able to bear witness to the great Polish nation, about Poles and to live in the belief that the matrix does not forget them, does not forget their fundamental values such as faith, language, tradition, culture, art. It is a great heritage, as the Holy Father said, whose name is Poland. As we all know here in the High House, and not only, it is glorious that the Senate has again gained a wonderful tool, which is the financial means, to support this legacy in this term of office. But in order to do this care well and fairly, i.e. to respond to the needs of Poles and Polish people, first of all you have to listen and hear, you have to listen to Poles and Polish people and listen to them, because sometimes you listen to them, but you don't always hear them. You have to hear what hurts them, how they need support most. This, of course, is the purpose of the consultation carried out by the committee, the individual senators, because we know very well how close the High House is to all senators in Poland and Polonia, not only to the senators working in the committee, which I have the honour of chairing. Such a great concern is shown by our Marshal Stanisław Karczewski and therefore addresses the High House through the applicants with a draft of this resolution. The Polish Consultative Council is such a body, it is such a quasi-advisory body, opinion-making body in matters relevant to Polish and Polish people abroad, in matters of normative acts concerning Polish and Polish people, such as the Polish Charter, the Act on repatriation, the Act on foreigners, as well as the directions of the Senate's activities and its bodies in matters concerning Polish and Polish people abroad. It is well known that we will also know about this consultation through the available resources, the Internet. But, most importantly, as stated in the draft resolution, the Marshal will share the results of such consultations with the High Chamber, the Senate Bureau and, of course, with the relevant committees, mainly with the Committee on Immigration and Communication with Poles abroad, but also with other committees, if this concerns them, for example. a committee of culture, a legislative committee, many committees in which such matters will go through the noble hands of the senators. The Marshal and the applicants propose that this consultative board count not more than 15 members. It is well known that the wider the body, the more difficult it is to reach agreement. The Marshal plans, proposes that the meetings be convened once a year, at least once a year, because there may be needs. If there are legislative work on important matters, it is possible that meetings will be more frequent. But this does not mean that such consultations cannot be done more often, because they can also be done in circulation, in writing, over the internet, through different media will be able to use these consultations. Membership in such a council is honorable. Besides, Poles... Here I would like to emphasize very strongly that Poles living abroad, Poles living in the East, there living as in their homelands are waiting for this consultation council, they are asking for it because they say nothing about us without us. And the Senate of this term very much wants to respond to this call of Poles. And this is the next step to getting Once again, I would like to stress that. Listen and hear and adopt the Polish strategy accordingly, build this Polish-Polonia dialogue, which is not there. I would like to thank both committees, all senators, because I am the rapporteur of both committees, for the fact that as always And that proves the senator's interest. The discussion of, it would seem, an obvious project, although it is so, the discussion of both committees was very fruitful, very substantive. On the occasion of this resolution, the senators even submitted some conclusions de lege ferenda, e.g. in order to think about the Senate's constitution as guardian of Polish and Poles, as part of future solutions, when we talk about changes in the Constitution. It's a good thing it sounds like that in the Senate right now. And speaking of this House today, I would like to stress that this is what we are talking about. Thank you very much to everyone who really as always... I would like to emphasise once again that this demonstrates the great importance of Poles and Polonia in this House. Thank you for the discussion at the committee meeting, I would now like to ask the High House to adopt this resolution without amendments, because that was the vote. Both committees unanimously requested the High House to adopt a resolution without amendments. Of course, proposals were made to extend the different scopes. Well, it was about the rules that maybe the council will draw up to... Because these provisions are general, but like any such body, it can create its own rules of procedure under which it will convene meetings, determine in what form it will consult and so on. But that's a matter, I believe, of the consultative board and your marshal. We as the High Chamber have this honour to support the marshal in these tasks he performs as a marshal for Poles and Polonia. Thank you, High House. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u302	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. May I remind you that the applicants have authorized them to represent the Senate deputy Marshal Maria Koc. Allow me to speak. At the beginning, I would like to thank the President very warmly for presenting the draft resolution with a comprehensive justification. I would also like to thank the members of the two joint committees who adopted this draft resolution without amendments yesterday. Yesterday there was no opportunity because we discussed under pressure of time, and after one meeting there was next. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday at the meeting of the two committees there was a lively discussion which I took as an expression of the concerns of the senators' states as to whether the Polish Consultative Council, acting on the basis of such a general document as this resolution, would be able to function well and fulfil its role. The fact that this is such a general document, ladies and gentlemen, is intended. We at the Senate Bureau did not have a very detailed discussion, so yesterday, when there were specific questions, it was difficult for me to address them because I did not want to pass on my own opinions on those issues that you raised. The Bureau considered that this document, in its general nature, would be very good at fulfilling its role and, as far as the details are concerned, it should be the members of the council appointed by Mr Marshal, representing the largest Polish communities and associations, groups of Poles living abroad. The state that will sit on this council, and the council will sit under the chairmanship of the Marshal, will know exactly what topics are important to them, what topics are to be discussed, but also what the mode of work of the Polonia Consultative Council is to be. As the President said, this is an advisory body at the marshal's. Opinions expressed by the Polish Consultative Council are not binding. This is an advisory vote. But it is also a forum for discussion, exchange of views, experience, expressing opinions, and making certain recommendations which, for us, senators, for the Senate can be such a hint of action and care for Poles and Poles abroad. So, ladies and gentlemen, I also, on behalf of the applicants, ask the High Senate to adopt this draft resolution without amendment. Thank you very much. And now I ask you to ask questions. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u303	Thank you very much, Marshal. I, of course, support this resolution and will certainly vote for it. I just have a question for the rapporteur on the possible differences in the proposed resolution and the resolution in previous terms on the appointment of this consultative board. I'm not on these committees. Maybe it's just a reminder that until the Senate was in charge of the money and we could speak, that was the consultative council. So is there a fundamental difference or isn't there? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u304	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u305	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Senator! What I'm trying to say is there's no difference. It is just as it was, because this consultative council, in past terms, also fulfilled this opinion-making role very well. And that's why Poles really felt a little rejected by the fact that she wasn't there, that the marshal didn't just call her. It's just a continuation. Oh, that's another continuation of the good tradition of the Senate. That's what I've been paying attention to. The Senate, you can say, has developed such a wonderful tradition for centuries. We all know here because we create the law that the Senate of Polish care as such does not exist anywhere in the Constitution or in other laws. This is what is developed by the power of tradition and internal regulations in the form of regulations, because we have committees, and resolutions of the Senate Bureau And so is this resolution. Senate yourself. it has developed just such a persistent and noble stay in tradition, in Poland and in Poles. The Poles know that they have the greatest guardian... the Senate is an organ that they can really address with anything. And we should be very proud of that. I'll allow myself to call it "the legacy of the Senate," from this tradition. And we should do the best we can... This resolution today, calling the council, is even more... That's the law. The resolution will be announced in the Polish Monitor. It all goes into the world, these are the signals sent by the Senate to Poles living... They live in our hearts. We are the representatives of the nation, and we must carry out this mission. They live in our hearts, and while they live, Poland lives, and we live. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u306	Thank you very much, Madam President. Would any of you like to ask the president a question? I don't see any calls, thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Piotr Ziientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u307	Mrs. Marshal! (PL) Madam President, I would like to ask you a few Dear Senators! It is with great satisfaction that I welcome the return of this important institution, which is the Polish Consultative Council at the Senate Marshal. This is not just a discussion forum, but it is also Let's not be afraid to say it. An important global symbol of the care of the Senate over Polonia. In my opinion, this role of the Senate has been implemented consistently since the beginning, since I was in the Senate since 2005. Of course, it was restored in the reborn Senate by Marshal Stelmachowski. In 1919. Polonia asked the Senate at the polish congress to take over her patronage. The caretaker's job didn't really work out, and she should... The work titled "Directions of changes in the state position and function of the Senate of the Republic of Poland" met with a positive reception of constitutionalists who considered it very important. This is actually a text of my own, so... this role of the Senate should be anchored in the constitution. It was in the project, but as a result of the discussion... In my opinion, this discussion was too theoretical. It showed that a threefold division of power was violated, because the Senate would sort of deal with an element of executive power in terms of measures... The Senate grants funds, but does not personally implement... The Senate carries out tasks through the Polish Community and other entities, and the Constitution contains exceptions that violate the principle of threefold division of power. For example, the possibility of combining the functions of Member and Minister or Secretary of State. There is no very rigid division of power in the Constitution, there are exceptions to it. Between 2005 and 2007 we prepared... I am talking about the committee, the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad, which has always been a cross-party plane, a plane of full consent of senators, who actually cared about Polonia regardless of party affiliation. In fact, in 2006 or 2007, in any case in that term, we prepared a law on the care of the Senate over Polonia. It was an important act, because it was not only a statutory basis for care, but also a possibility for Polish organizations to submit applications to the Senate with the opinion of the consul. Not just by Polish organizations. Madam President mentioned here the discussion that awaits us. I think that the discussion on the law on the care of Polonia should also go back to the committee. I am therefore pleased that the Senate will continue to carry out this important role with which it has always identified itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u308	Thank you very much, Senator. Would any of you like to take the floor in the discussion? No. Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the draft resolution. This third reading would only cover the vote. It will be held together with other votes. We're moving on to the next point. Dear Senators, in accordance with the announcement to consider item 10 of the agenda, this is the second reading of the draft resolution on the 100th anniversary of the founding of the Grounders' Union, we will proceed tomorrow. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the revision of the Senate Rules of Procedure. I would like to remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 220, and the report is published in print No 220 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Rules of Procedure Committee, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Senator Piotr Ziientarski, to present a joint report of the committee on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u309	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It's also a non-controversial resolution. The resolution, which was adopted by both committees, in short, extends the possibility of announcing the year of the person or event... The point is that there should be no more than 5 resolutions on the establishment of a given person or event. And that is the essence of this presentation. I would also remind you that the draft resolution on the establishment of the year of a person or event may be submitted by 30 September of the previous year. The planned framework programme of the event shall be attached to the project. The Legislative Commission shall submit a report on the draft to the senators by 31 October, but in particularly justified cases the Senate Marshal may, after consulting the bureau, extend the time limit referred to a moment ago. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the announcement of the year cannot be equivalent... it cannot be as frequent as the announcement of just a certain commemorative resolution, connected e.g. An anniversary. After all, the Senate plays a very important role here, educational and patriotic. After all, it is also our role to remind you of great events and great Poles. We take care of the symmetry of the Sejm and Senate powers at any time. If there may be five such resolutions in the Seym, then the question arises: why can it not be symmetrical in the Senate as well? Given the fact that in previous terms there were difficulties in eliminating certain proposals when we had more than 3 proposals for announcement of the year, and that year for which the celebrations were all year round... Because situations like this happen. So the point is not to limit ourselves to our own rules when there is really a need for resolutions. That's why it's a presentation, Mr. Marshal. Which, as I have already mentioned, is not controversial, it has met with the acceptance of both committees. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u310	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur. Would any of you like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the draft resolution. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: agreeing to take responsibility for Senator Waldemar's misdeeds. I would like to inform you that the Senate Marshal has sent a request from the Chief Police Commissioner through the Attorney General to the Rules of Procedure and Senators' Affairs Committee. The Commission has examined the proposal and prepared a report on it. This report is contained in print No 207. I ask the rapporteur of the Rules of Procedure Committee, the Ethics of Senators, Senator Krzysztof Słoń to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u311	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I hereby present a report by the Committee on Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on a case lodged through the Prosecutor General of the Chief Police Officer's request that the Senate of the Republic of Poland authorise Senator Waldemar B Member State to be held liable for offences. On 26 April 2016, the Senate Marshal sent a request to the committee. Following the examination of this request at its meeting on 15 June 2016, pursuant to Article. 7c paragraph. 5, in conjunction with Article. 10b. 1 Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator and Article. Article 26 (2) (b) 1 in conjunction with Article. Article 27 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, the committee, after hearing Senator Waldemar of the Member State and after hearing the request of the Chief of Police together with the reasons for this request, and after conducting the discussion at this point, shall submit a proposal to reject the application of the Chief Police Commissioner submitted on 20 April 2016 by the Prosecutor-General to the Senate of the Republic of Poland to authorise Senator Waldemar of the Member State to be held liable for offences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u312	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you, Mr. Marshal.]] According to Art. Article 26 (2) (b) 2 Rules of Procedure of the Senate shall examine the report of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs without discussion. The Senator concerned can provide explanations and the senators have the right to ask questions on this matter. Would Senator Waldemar Bonkowski like to make an explanation? [[I don't think so, because there's no one to direct...]] [[It's all clear.]] Thank you very much. Do any of you senators want to ask a question about this? I don't see any calls. The vote will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. A moment's break, please. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Senator Piotr Zientarski: This is the last point...)]] Yeah, yeah, I want to process it, but the minister's not here. I'm asking you to download... [[Senator Mieczysław Augustyn: And it's over...]] Yes, I would like to proceed to item 13 on the agenda... Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, [[Voice from the room: A moment ago it was.]] [[Voice from the hall: I'll go get him.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Yeah, yeah, that's why I'm not declaring a break. It's just a short technical break. The last points we did were fast enough to... [[Senator, you're here.]] Good. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Family and Care Code and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print 202 and the committee report In print No 202 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Mark Pęk, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u313	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I'm on my way. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present, on behalf of two committees, the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Legislative Committee, a report on the Law adopted by the Sejm on 10 June 2016 amending the Law on Family and Care Code and certain other laws. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is a legislative initiative of the President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Duda. According to the justification of the draft law, the Law of 11 February 2016 on State aid to raise children does not explicitly determine the relationship between parenting and maintenance obligations, which in practice raises doubts as to whether such financial support should be taken into account in determining the scope of the maintenance obligation. At the same time, it is also appropriate to regulate the impact on the scope of maintenance obligations other than the provision of education and an allowance in the amount of educational benefits intended to cover the cost of children's living, parents' or guardians', family homes and institutional foster care. There are, you might say, three fundamental aspects of this bill. First of all, the revision of the provisions of the Family and Care Code aims to clearly indicate that maintenance benefits do not affect: firstly, the social assistance benefits or maintenance fund referred to in the Law of 7 September 2007 on the assistance of persons entitled to maintenance to be reimbursed by the maintenance obligation; secondly, the benefits, expenses and other financial resources relating to the placing of the child in foster care referred to in the provisions on support for the family and the system of foster care; thirdly, the educational provision referred to in the Law of 11 February 2016 on State aid for the raising of children; and fourthly, the family benefits referred to in the Law of 28 November 2003 on family benefits. In addition, the Act in question amends the Civil Procedure Code of 17 November 1964, eliminating the possibility of enforcing the benefits referred to in Article from the bank account. 833 §6 and §7. Notwithstanding the above amendments, the Act amends the Law of 29 August 1997 on banking law which allows banks to keep family accounts. These accounts may be kept only for natural persons who have been granted non-executable benefits, allowances, allowances and other amounts referred to in Article. 833 §6 and §7 of the Act The Code of Civil Procedure, with the exception of maintenance benefits. The Act provides that the opening and maintenance of the family account and the withdrawal from that account at the bank in which the account is held will be free of fees and commissions. Only cash from non-executable benefits may be paid to the family account. Payments to the family account may only be made from bank accounts of non-executable entities. In addition, provision has been made for the cash held in savings accounts, savings and settlement accounts and forward-looking savings deposits arising from benefits, allowances and allowances to be free from seizure on the basis of a judicial or administrative implementing title. It should be added that the same provision concerning the exemption from enforcement from the account of a member of the cashier of claims arising from defined benefits was introduced in the Act of 5 November 2009 on cooperative savings and credit banks. I'm summing up. The amendment aims to cut beyond any doubt any disputes which arise in the doctrine and judicial case law that the provision of this type, which is commonly called 500+, cannot affect the amount of maintenance benefits. This is a very important conclusion, because the whole philosophy of providing 500+ was that it was meant to be a reward for the family for having children and to have a positive sumptuous effect on the functioning of a multi-child family. It would be absurd, some paradox, if for this reason, that someone is a beneficiary of an aid scheme such as 500+, such someone was simultaneously limited or punished in a different way in terms of benefits; and already the initial practice of the operation of the scheme 500+ showed that certain problems arise in matters of enforcement proceedings. This was particularly the case with the execution of bank accounts, because the specific nature of the execution from the bank account is that the funds that appear in the bank account lose their identity. The bailiff doesn't really know what a component of such an account is, but it takes up individual amounts. Therefore, to cut through any doubts... Because, of course, it's not like if the bailiff enforces the amounts from the 500+ account, they can't be recovered later. But this is a rather complicated procedure, it requires specific evidence, initiative of the parties, initiative of the bank, provision of various information, and all this complicates the situation, prolongs it in time, thus aggravating the situation of a family that has enforcement problems. So that there's no doubt, Mr. President... I mean, it's not Mr. President, it's just... This is an amendment resulting from the Parliamentary work. In addition, the Sejm introduced such a change so that these family accounts could be created. These family accounts will be specifically intended for payment of 500+ and other benefits previously mentioned by me. Only the entities entitled to make these payments will be able to pay into those accounts no other entity will be able to pay into those accounts. The beneficiaries won't be able to pay the money for the programs... So there's no risk of anyone running away with property, taking resources out there. These are the bills that are meant to be stored on them. At the meeting of the committee of the President, you represented Minister Andrzej Dera and the Minister of Justice Mr Patryk Jak. In addition, representatives of the legislators of the President, legislators of the Ministry of Justice, were also present representatives of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, director of the Department of Family Policy in the Ministry, Olgierd Podgórski, and the chief legal specialist of Aleksandr Brodzk-Jędrzejczak. There were also representatives of the NSZZ.Solidarity, representatives of the Polish Bank Association and of course the legislator of the Legal Office of the Senate Office. It can therefore be said that the meeting of the Joint Committees was held in a broad consultative and opinion-making body. As far as the proceedings are concerned, the senators agreed on the purpose of the proposed amendment. However, there were doubts. And so on. Senator Antoni Szymański asked if there was a need for an amendment at this early stage of the 500+ programme, or whether it would be better to wait with this amendment. The answer was that this was a diagnosis and so urgent that it had to be regulated quickly in order to eliminate the question of interpretation of the case law and the practice of enforcement authorities. Senator Borowski wanted precise information as to whether it would really be so that the funds in his family account would not be executed or if the family created a family account, the funds collected there could then be taken into account, paid or paid, or only the institution concerned would direct the funds there. Well, that's been explained precisely. Like I said before, this is an account. only to these payments, only institutions authorised to pay these benefits may direct money to these accounts. It's clearly settled in the rules. In addition, the senators asked if it really was that this family account is free of charge, that its operation would not generate any costs. And here the answer is also clear. Besides, the Polish Bank Association supports this amendment, its position is clear. Senator Piotr Zientarski expressed the view that maybe this whole amendment is an unnecessary procedure in the sense that it would be enough for bailiffs to pay due diligence at the execution stage, since they are specialised bodies and have specific instruments and knowledge to identify themselves in the situation of debtors and to extract those funds actually coming from sources that cannot be executed. Here, too, the answer was that the practice is a little bit different, that there are often allegations against the bailiffs that they act hastily, a little bit, I would say, on the line of least resistance, and even if they work lege artis, then, as I said earlier, it is such a longer, more complicated, more complex action, so it all extends over time. And this is about getting that money to people quickly, efficiently, fully, without any deductions, restrictions. Actually, the discussion wasn't particularly complex. Senator Lidia Staroń also argued here that in principle these changes are technical, precise, this amendment does not affect the nature of the benefit 500+, on these grounds, the statutory assumptions. We simply want to make sure that our flagship 500+ programme, the Law and Justice Programme, is functioning as best as possible, without a charge, without any doubt, fully reach those to whom it is addressed. During the committee meeting, the Legislative Bureau submitted three proposals for amendments, but rather those of a technical, legislative nature, concerning such specific issues of legal references. Senator Stanisław Rogut has asked for a bill without amendment. This request was, by unanimity, voted by the committee. At this point, the committee concluded its deliberations. Therefore, on behalf of the joint committees, I also recommend that the High House adopt this amendment without amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u314	Thank you very much for a very detailed account, more detailed than the report of the committee meeting. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. You're the first Senator Komarnicki to come forward. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u315	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Dear Senator, rapporteur, First of all, I would like to thank you, of course, for the fact that the presidential project corrects the error or failure to look at the government project and thus the benefit paid from the government's 500+ programme will not constitute a reason why the family court will be able to reduce the amount of alimony. And this is... [[No one's paying.]] ...probably plus this bill. I have three questions. Mr. Senator, do you have data like the program? 500+ affects the gray area? We know very well that in many cases, parents ask to lower their salaries in order to reduce their wages so as to fit in the average, which will allow them to pay their funds under the 500+ programme. We also know that we are reluctant to engage in employment because they know that 1 thousand PLN, if there are three children, and if there are three children and an adequate average, then 1 thousand 500 PLN will replace their income. Are you monitoring this kind of action? And is there a department that carries out such statistics, or is there a repair program that would stop it? Because he has a place and we know it. The second question concerns the problem of the funds paid from local governments to handle the 500+ task. The regional social policy centres that intervene are very much involved when the family has a mixed place of residence, i.e. When one parent is with children in Poland, the other parent is somewhere outside Poland, but they receive such benefits in two countries. It is then necessary to check how much this is in accordance with the principle that 500 PLN per child should be paid, and how much foreign benefits are able to cover the needs of children. Then the correspondence of regional social policy centres takes place in different languages. And that's what we need to remember. And the voivodships unfortunately do not have in their budgets money to carry out this task commissioned by the voivodship government and they speak about it publicly. I, on the other hand, was vice-president of the Sejm, and I know that the marshals are already saying today that they will go to court with these cases. Have you noticed any problems in this regard, and do you want to make it right? And my last question. It refers to the transfer of benefits of 500+ to bank accounts. The Senator rapporteur spoke of this. The provision in the proposed act says that the bailiff cannot take the benefit when it comes to the so-called. family account And we're in agreement on that. However, it does not specify, Senator, that it is necessary to establish such an account for families. So families can still get 500+ benefits for their personal account, and thus these funds can, Mr. Senator, be taken by the bailiff. Is there any chance that the rules will be further clarified? Remember, I've always voted for 500+. [[I can answer that.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u316	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u317	Mr. Senator, as for your first two questions, I will withdraw from the answer here because these are matters that go beyond the scope of the committee's deliberations and, in general, the scope of the presidential presentation. I'm just a humble committee rapporteur. The problems you are raising here are suitable for some broad debate, such as summarizing the functioning of the 500+ programme after a certain period of time. As for the question about the bank account, here is the situation that it is not that such an account is mandatory for all beneficiaries of the 500+ programme. This is a proposal for those families who, in addition to being beneficiaries of the 500+ programme, are faced with some situation of existence which makes their property subject to enforcement proceedings. So this bill is a right, not an obligation. But regardless of whether anyone has a family account or not... We here, in this law, precisely prejudice that these measures cannot be the subject of enforcement proceedings. And the bank account is about to completely block them, prevent them from doing so. And then the situation is completely clear. So the only thing I can do here is to appeal for families who have some sort of enforcement problem to assume family accounts, because then the situation is the simplest, easiest, most precise solution. [[Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, can I have the first question in writing?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: No, no.]] [[Voice from the room: Not from the senator.]] [[It's from the minister...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u318	But wait, wait, wait, wait. Didn't the senator answer the first question? [[Oh, no. I refused to answer because the matter was beyond the scope of the committee's work, the presentation.]] [[The case wasn't the subject of the committee's deliberations...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] I see. I take that as an explanation. Senators do not provide written answers. [[But they can.]] They may also be in the clowns, Mr. Senator. And I'm asking you to ask me a question. [[And that will satisfy me, Mr. Marshal. Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u319	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Thank you twice, because in spite of some irony, you're giving me the floor. [[No, with a smile, I don't do it ironically.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[No, no, no. I'm saying this with all seriousness.]] Yeah, but I'm... Yeah, I was intruding because I was interfering. Senator rapporteur, if you have any problems answering this question, I will redirect it to the Presidential Minister, and I apologise for the term Mr Dera. Was it taken into account during the committee's deliberations whether the position of the National Judicial Council was considered? How did the committee react to the opinion of this important constitutional body?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u320	Mr. Senator, as far as I know, we haven't discussed the position of the National Judicial Council at this committee meeting. I've got enough detailed transcripts from the transcripts, from the committee's deliberations, and I don't see a point like that.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u321	Thank you. I don't see any more questions to ask. Thank you very much, Senator. This bill was introduced by the President. The President's position was presented during parliamentary work by the Secretary of State of the President's Office of the Republic of Poland, Minister Andrzej Dera. Welcome, Minister. Would the Minister like to speak... [[Talking in the O.R.]] May I have the silence, please? Thank you very much. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the President? [[Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Dera: Yes.]] Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u322	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! After your presentation of such a thorough report, I will only say a few general sentences, so as to anticipate some questions. In fact, this project was due to the President's concern that the 500+ programme's money should go directly to the families so that there would not be a situation like this on the way, because there have already been two events, namely one court sentence and one execution by the bailiff. Well, the mother of six children was temporarily but deprived of these funds, because the bailiff started the execution, and in another case the judge ruled in the court judgment that the 500+ programme would affect the amount of child support and reduce the amount of child support. Hence the project that clarifies and seals this system. Firstly, the family and caring code has been amended and it has been pointed out explicitly that this benefit does not affect the amount of alimony. This once and for all will resolve the dispute which was in doctrine, because some thought that it was affecting, some thought that it did not affect, and hence there were these judgments. They were not due to errors in the bill, they were due to interpretation of this law. In order to ensure that there are no problems of interpretation, we propose a provision which clearly specifies benefits which do not affect the amount of maintenance, maintenance obligations. It solves all the problems. From that point on, as soon as this amendment is included in the Code, no judge will be able to claim that this benefit affects the amount of alimony. The same is true in the case of bailiff executions, it's really security, as I say, and execution of bailiffs will not be possible. I think the very cool solution developed in the Sejm are the proposals from the article. 4 and Article 4 3 of this bill, that's those family accounts. This is a situation where the entitled to the benefit can collect it in cash, but in a situation where and it is very convenient for those who have these accounts When it creates... I mean, it's voluntary, there's no coercion. On the one hand, the recipient must want, on the other hand, the bank must express its will that it is interested, but the representatives of the banks have already said that they are interested in these family accounts because it improves the issue of these enforcement claims. It is what is written here, that this account is free of charge and is not executed in any way, and payments to this account can only be made by the institutions listed in the article. 135. Am I right? Yeah, in the article. 135 §3. And here are the institutions that pay benefits that are exempt from enforcement. So that there are no gates here, no possibilities. This is a tight system, safe and, in the view of the President, this intention is included in these proposals. These proposals seal, facilitate and cause all funds from taxpayers' money to be sent directly to those who are entitled to receive education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u323	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute's request to the representative of the President, Minister Andrzej Dera, relating to this item on the agenda. Who among you senators would like to ask such a question? The first was Senator Rulewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u324	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, although you said you were ahead of the question, you didn't warn me, so I'm asking you again: I am already talking about the parliamentary work of Mr President's office has taken into account the position of the National Judicial Council, and how does he respond to this opinion?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u325	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u326	I'll tell you what. Mr. Senator, first there was the draft of the President, then there was the opinion of the National Judicial Council, and the rule is that the opinion is part of the documentation that goes with the draft law, and that either the Members or the Senators are raising cases that are... We as applicants do not refer directly to the opinion. I can say this: an amendment that was... Because there were amendments adopted in the Sejm, they were about family accounts, and there was a broad discussion. I think that these solutions are very friendly, they are accepted and by banking environments, and by political environments, because no one has commented that this is a bad, bad thing, and it has de facto happened. The National Judicial Council has expressed its opinion, and it is not a negative opinion, it is such an opinion, I would say... [[Voice from the room: Anything...]] ...not even indifferent, but she's so... once she's non-binding, and two... Oh, she's polemic. I was looking for a word: it's such a polemic opinion. So far, in the long process of law-making, this particular law, neither in the Seym, nor in the Senate, none of the senators have raised an argument, which is in the opinion of the National Council of Courts.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u327	Thank you very much. Do any of you have another question for the Minister? Senator Komarnicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u328	I would simply like to repeat, Minister, this question I have asked, of course, unfortunately, to the Senator rapporteur. Do you have data like a program? 500+ affects the gray area? We know very well that in many cases, parents ask for a lower salary to reduce their wages so that they can fit in the average, which allows for the payment of funds from the 500+ programme. We also know that we are reluctant to engage in employment because they know that 1 thousand PLN, and if there are three children and an adequate average, then 1 thousand 500 PLN will completely replace their income. I mean, Minister, do you monitor this kind of action? Is there a department that runs these statistics? Is there a corrective programme that would stop this? Because he has a place.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u329	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u330	Dear Senator, I will try to answer very precisely. This bill doesn't cover the problem you're talking about, but, of course, this problem exists because what you're saying... [[I'm an entrepreneur, that's why I'm saying it.]] That's what happens. I'm not running away from the question either, I'm just saying that these things happen... I can say that because I'm after talking to the family ministry that runs the 500+ project... Mr. President's sealing... Please note, what we are doing here does not apply directly to the program 500+, that is to say, the amendment of the law of the family and caring code, banking law, the law on the SKOK. These institutions are right next to this program. What you're saying is actually directly affecting the program. 500+. And I can say what Minister Marczuk has told me that the 500+ programme is monitored by the Ministry and, as he said, after a certain period of operation, I think it will be the autumn of this year. There will be time to analyze and deal with the problems you are reporting, that there are situations where there are trials. The Ministry has made it clear that it will address the problems that actually exist. The Minister said it wasn't a program that wouldn't be modified. If there are any solutions that will facilitate, improve, seal, the family ministry will come up with such proposals. [[Thank you very much for your answer.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u331	Thank you very much. Do any of you have any more questions for you... [[Senator Bonkowski.]] Mr. Senator Bonkowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u332	This may not be a question for the Minister, but I would like to signal a fact, because, as the Minister said, it is monitored and I want to signal a case. A few days ago, she volunteered for me at the office of a lady who raises her child alone. She applied for 500+ because she didn't exceed all those limits, and she got refused because in the e-tax system they checked that in 2014 she sold a hectare of land, for this hectare of land she bought an apartment, she still had 4,000 more, and she has a few months to invest those 4,000 so that she wouldn't pay the tax. So this has nothing to do with her current income... [[Waldek, income.]] ...and she was denied 500+.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u333	Well, here the tax system is ruthless, because it's counted... [[But she provided a certificate that it was tax-- the IRS gave a certificate that the tax is...]] But there's a calculated income here. [[She bought an apartment and there's been a renovation, which...]] But as I say, this is where the income is calculated. Ladies and gentlemen, there was this big argument about income issues. Because in general, the idea of this program was that from the second child, in the case of the second, third, fourth, there would be no income control, so that each child in the family that is born, the second, third, fourth, fifth, etc., would receive these funds. In the case of the first child, this income threshold was made so that in those families where the income is the smallest, the funds were also for the first child. Well, some people ask me why it's 2014. For why this is 2014 there is a simple answer. Because please note that it is for profit reasons that a whole year must be counted, that in a given year someone received and obtained on average. 'Cause, you know, like... are seasonal workers who receive a salary during the season and then do not receive it and are counted the average of the whole year. Also, please note that this was about a buffer in counting the whole year. Common The programme entered into force on 1 April, and the income from the previous year was not counted, because even if the pitches were filed by the end of April, so there would be a problem as to how to settle it, and it is counted, as the senator rightly pointed out, all year round. And unfortunately, when someone had land, they sold it, they had income. [[But she bought a house...]] No, no, it doesn't matter what someone spends money on. The income issue is taken into account: it had income and therefore does not fall within this income threshold for the first child. Well, that's how it's counted. Shortly: the income from the sale of land is income.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u334	Thank you very much. Senator Zientarski. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u335	I'll be brief, because I'm not going to make any requests or speeches. I would just like to remind the Minister gently that some of the doubts I raised at the National Judicial Council were raised during the committee meeting. Because in the case of these bank accounts, there's kind of an additional guarantee for the execution exemption. I think the bailiffs should answer... [[Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Dera: Well, here I agreed with the senator.]] ...but if the banks would like to... Well, that's no problem. Another issue that has also emerged in the National Judicial Council is the saying that yes, it has an impact, but it does not affect the legitimate needs of the entitled child, because that is the condition of maintenance. And the discussion was that you can actually say it affects, because we know it affects, but we say it doesn't affect, but it does. Well, that's how it is. [[Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Dera: Yes, if I may, Mr. Senator...]] ...in this case. That's the problem I wanted to notice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u336	I'll answer very briefly. The fact that this should not affect maintenance obligations results, for example, from the Convention on the Rights of the Child, in which it is clearly stated that if there is State aid... [[The reduction should not be affected.]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It's not a question of raising or lowering, it's whether it affects the principle at all or not. [[Well, maybe we should check it out.]] But the Convention on the Rights of the Child... the UN agencies have made it clear that if the State supports, and has the right to do so, many countries support educational processes, public funds should not exempt parents from maintenance obligations, because we would then have a paradoxical situation: no one would pay because the State is giving us maintenance obligations. That's not what this is about. In short, if something comes from public funds, it should not affect maintenance obligations because it is the responsibility of every parent to maintain a child. And the fact that you're giving extra... The state supports parents, helps them, but cannot replace them.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u337	Thank you very much. Senator Hare, questions, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u338	Thank you very much. Minister, there was not one major problem here: this does not apply to all parents who are entitled to 500+. This applies only to the group that has bailouts or, as I say, to maintenance. Would you mind telling us what percentage of these people are? It's probably not a huge number.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u339	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u340	Ladies and gentlemen, most families in Poland with two, three, four children do not have enforcement proceedings, but there is a group of people who for different reasons They have loans, they have some difficulties in functioning, they have some debt... This is within a few percent, this is not some mass scale, but, ladies and gentlemen, these are difficult cases. I'll remind the mother of six children who, knowing that she had an account, volunteered for the 500+ program and there was a problem, because unfortunately, if money affects the account, then the bailiff doesn't really know where it's from. And that's why family accounts were created to secure that money. Let them enforce from other income, but not from those who are legally exempt from execution. This is helping those who have difficulties in paying other commitments have some enforcement proceedings. This only applies to a certain number of families, not a significant number, it's a few percent, but if you count a few percent of a few million, it's in absolute numbers... This applies to a large group of people. [[That's a lot of help.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u341	Does Senator Zientarski want to ask you any more questions? No. I'd like to ask you a question from the senator of the Member State.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u342	I'm just gonna be brief, because this lady's gonna be at my office on Monday. Do you want me to tell her now that she's going to make a new application? It's July, so is it supposed to bring a certificate for 2015 now? [[This Regulation ……]] [[Duda help.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u343	The next deadline for submitting applications shall be laid down by law. It is not that the benefits are granted for the rest of the child's life, but it is the temporary allowance specified in the Act. It is likely that there is another tranche in 2017. And, as I remember, every three years, these applications will have to be submitted. Then it will be the year before and there will be no problem of the apartment, because it is a one-off income cashed. If she had put money on a bank clerk and had some income on it, she would also have to count on it as income; interest is also income.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u344	Thank you. [[But she's out for another year.]] [[Secretary of State of the Polish President's Office Andrzej Dera: But only when there is a next cycle... After three years he must rewrite his application.]] Senator Czerwinski, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u345	Mr. Minister, about the Senator Member's question... In the case of the original proposal, did it not work to report that the material situation of the lady had changed? After all, there is a possibility of indicating that the estate has changed. Doesn't that do the trick? [[Secretary of State at the Polish President's Office Andrzej Dera: No, because there is... The basis was the income of 2014 counted as a whole. That's what's written in the bill. If in 2014 she sold the apartment and obtained the income, then the tax return shows that it was simply classified as...]] I'm sorry, but couldn't she file a motion right now, citing a change in the situation in 2015? [[Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Dera: No, because there is no legal possibility.]] [[But it's been reported that you can now apply...]] Once again, I'm sorry, in the event of a change in property... It works just like having another baby. This is simply a change, you can say, the conditions for submitting an application. And in my opinion, But, as I say, it's for interpretation. In such cases, a new application may be submitted. You are not obliged to submit this annual deadline from 1 August to the last day of September. And here... [[But the programme started this year and concerned 2014.]] [[2014 and not...]] [[Not until the next...]] I understand...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u346	I'm telling you, here's the decision... [[But if someone's having a baby now, what, a person like that has to wait three years or a year...]] No, then there's a newly entitled person to receive... That's when you apply for another... In the course of this process, normal applications shall be made. [[...like income...]] [[If she had the baby, she'd get it.]] And the moment he's... I mean, when the number of kids hasn't changed, it's... Because here's the administrative decision, which states that the right is... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] ...or you're not entitled to it. And if there's a decision that you don't have, because in 2014, the income was over... then it's not enough to say, well, I'll wait a while, it won't be this year. Because the bill clearly states that the next application can be submitted after 3 years. When a child is born, this is another person entitled to receive this benefit... benefit, not just benefit.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u347	This is a different legal situation. [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] Do you have any more questions for the Minister? No. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Dera: Thank you.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I should now ask you whether you have a question for the representative of the government. Minister What's on the votes in the Sejm. If there are no questions, I'll move on. [[Voice from the room: No questions asked.]] No questions. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Rulewski. Come on in, Mr. Senator. [[Senator Alicia Hare: Senator gets 500+, doesn't he?]] [[He's got a thousand.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u348	I'm gonna answer that question, but I'm in the hallway right now. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You said that almost unanimously, with the consent of many institutions, this law has passed, for the time being, in the Sejm, also in the Senate committees. Atoli appears a person who doesn't fully agree, who doesn't fit into this vote of unanimity, which is me. I'll start with the following: yes to the bill, to the wording of the bill, in which the accounts are created free of classes. As far as the bailiff is concerned, hands off that kind of benefits. Not for a ban on a family court, according to which it would not have the right to deal with income arising from educational provision. Let me give you an example. He's multiple, he can be multiple. The Minister only gave two, but this example can be repeated. Recall: The law on parenting benefits includes children under the age of 18. I had a different opinion, but it was rejected. This is in a family that has at least two children, in a wealthy family, as part of the state aid referred to here, the State grants 500 PLN to the second child automatically, without examining, without taking an interest in its income. But it just so happens that one of the parents in this family is entitled to alimony for a child who lives in another family, but is 19 years old. This kid goes to school, his family isn't wealthy, maybe even poor, and he's not entitled to 500+ because the government decided so. He doesn't have clearance. There is a poor family, a child wants to learn, the state has supported a rich family, and by the power of the bill discussed here it says: manage yourself in this poor family. And here's the disagreement. There's a disagreement here. [[Why?]] Even though there are arguments... Here the Minister has recalled that the provision of state aid to the family should not be subject to judgment because we are talking about a family code and caring, only I note that this is aid, but of an automatic nature. This is a different aid than that contained in the family code and in others, and in the law of 500+, which is a criterion, is to support the family when it lacks income or funds to support children. And everywhere in the case of family benefits, we introduce a very low income criterion, which we must constantly rewind. But here's the opposite. This is the PiS government. And rightfully, I'm almost for it. He says, regardless of your family situation, we give you, the cash will be paid 500+, but he will not pay that child who is more than 18. [[He's an adult, he's an adult.]] [[But he goes to school, to high school.]] She goes to school. I'll tell you more, maintenance obligations under the family code are imposed on this parent from this wealthy family to lay down alimony, judgment or settlement until he gets... [[To college...]] More than that, to achieve the ability to live on your own. Well, undoubtedly going to high school at the age of 19 is a way to get emancipated, because it's hard to assume that such a man should stop his studies and go as a bishop to work, not to mention that the court would resist such a position... And that's where the studios are, isn't it? Fewly, family benefits are paid up to the age of 21, and in the case of children with disabilities they can be paid even for the rest of their lives. So that we are dealing with the President's initiative in a part that says: not all children in Poland can... must be equal, not everywhere must be justice, the most important thing is that it is 500+. And that's where the term "500+" was often used. My vision... I see all the children. And those children who are second, third, fourth, and those who are disabled. But it is also not possible to close the mouth of the court as if the situation of children who, first of all, do not benefit from this care, secondly, by virtue of this law will be reduced in terms of maintenance of the parent's mother. I therefore make an amendment which excludes from the benefit index the educational benefit. I'm leaving this case to judge the court. Let the court... I am not saying that the court is not to take into account or to take into account, but let it judge this as the family code states today. And that's the essence of the amendment. Bottom line: I am on yes, I am for most of the provisions of this law, e.g. with accounts, with the codification of family benefits, which so far have not been included in this code, but excluding 500+ as automatic support. Another additional question I didn't have time to ask, but maybe the minister who still has a chance to speak... The State is providing assistance... And I think it was also, as I recall, the PIS initiative, supported by the Platform, even extended and later expanded... It's about family tax relief. This is evident support from the State. Why isn't it included here? Why, as a result of this relief, can the bailiff, uglylyly and briefly put it away? I mean, it's a child benefit. And this education is not for the child. This is a witness... This is the Family Aid Act, and that relief is for a working or income earning in connection with having a child and for the benefit of a child. So the inconsistency... Thank you very much to the House. I apologize for the confusion, but all children must be treated equally in our country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u349	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Szymanski. Come on in, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u350	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I think the adoption of this amendment has been decided. This is the result of discussions in this Chamber, that is the result of discussions between the joint committees and their proposals. I think that will be the case regardless of Mr. Rulewski's request. This is also due to what the Sejm did. We are a Chamber that should consider the issue of the overall support of the family on such an occasion. I think this is an opportunity for a few reflections that I would like to share with you. First of all, we are amending a big project that has just begun to function. Several hundred thousand people have not yet applied for 500+ support. We are completely at the beginning of the road, and we are already making a very serious, very deep amendment in spite of the appearances. I'd like to point out that in the fall... This was also pointed out by Minister Dera just a moment ago, speaking of his talks with the family minister indicating that a very profound analysis of the effects of this law will be carried out in the autumn of this year. Then it will be ready to amend this law in various respects. I'm talking about this because even in the context of the question you asked, Senator Bonkowski, there were voices and cockroaches, and here... Well, if that's a problem unsolved, we need to update the bill as soon as possible. Well, this powerful program, which costs a lot. In many places it may indeed need to be amended, it may require new ideas to be introduced... However, I would like to warn against such, I would say, legislative diarrhea and the fact that such a programme is constantly being updated. I believe that it is appropriate to hold a serious debate, following the analyses prepared by the government in the autumn of this year and, where necessary, to make the necessary changes. We must be aware that any amendment causes some instability, destabilisation in the case of the thousands of officials who have to do so. Information must reach people, and there are also costs involved. So that I would warn against... Well, there is such a desire to appear in different environments, in different chambers, in different places, to update this really necessary and, as we can see, a successful program. This program, because of its dimension, gives rise to such temptations. This is my first request: after this amendment, let us refrain from the next and do so globally this autumn, knowing very serious analyses in this matter. I would like to point out that in this case, the Minister referred to two legal cases. We have hundreds of thousands of court decisions, and we have referred to two cases, talking about them only in the context of how the person entitled to alimony was treated. Alimony has been reduced to a person who is obliged to... But we don't know if this person has been reduced to alimony because he has, for example. some children from the second or third marriage, and these children must be protected, and child support for the first marriage has been reduced. Or did she lose the lowest pension, the 650 zloty? I'm talking about it because we need a serious analysis. Not on the basis of several cases, but on the basis of many cases. That's one thing. Secondly, I would like to join this thought by Janek... by Senator Rulewski, even though I do not share his proposal. In fact, it is worth noting that the court, which will not take into account the various elements of social support from the state, i.e. 500+ and other benefits, will get a very disturbed picture of the material situation of the family. Note that this may be the typical situation of a family with modest income: the mother earns a small amount of 1 thousand, 1 thousand 200 PLN and the benefits for 3 children exceed two of her income. - or two and a half times. We are aware of 500+ and other benefits. So it could be a lot more. Her income could be 30%, 40%. Therefore, this greatly interferes with the knowledge of the court and hinders individual treatment. Hence the question: could this be regulated differently? I am asking this question as an open question without questioning what has been done. Attention three. I'd ask us to consider it on this bill. This is a question of various debts that arise in families. These debts are of different kinds. I have the impression of this discussion and discussion that was conducted in committees, as if the activity of the bailiff was slowly becoming a criminal activity, as if he wanted to recover the funds to which someone is entitled, for example. The second member of the family... Perhaps the mother is bringing her child support from her father to the bailiff. And it's his duty. So let's not treat the various services that take down the established debts as suspects, because then we treat the state and these services in a completely incomprehensible, incorrect and certainly wrong way. I'll get your attention... I think examples are very good here. There may be a situation where a debt has been incurred precisely as a result of the non-payment of alimony, e.g. By my father. Well, the bailiff... But the father has another relationship, two or three, and there are other children. He's saving that money for a specially prepared account. Banks are so eager to open their accounts for free. I leave no comment as to why these banks are so eager to do this. But I think in this House we all have clarity about the interests of the banks. A long-term customer education and large sums of money. However, let us note that if we create this account, which we are talking about, that it is so happy, this solution, apart from the positives, also has shortcomings. The manament is that, for example. A father who saves on this account various benefits, including 500+ for children from a second relationship or from a third relationship, or perhaps from a fourth... The mother of the children of the first marriage won't be able to pull it off with the help of the bailiff. This is one of the results. But let's note that if he starts this account and maybe he's secured his main financial resources that he has... 'Cause her income from her salary could be a dozen percent, maybe 20%. Or 30%. And it could create the following situation. Well, a mother or a father, because the situation here may vary, can obtain various credits from different sides. We know that there's a lot of evidence for companies that give loans right now. Then it may turn out that this company won't be able to get that money out of nowhere because of a small or no income of a father or a mother. No, and from an account marked as a family account Neither did I. What does that mean? That someone can take loans in different places that will not be repaid. Of course, creditors will soon realize that there is a problem that has been created and that it is possible to accumulate loans in this way. So they will create appropriate legal regulations, their regulations that will hinder access to credit. And in this way, we can make it harder for families with low income that will benefit from these family accounts, the use of credit, because of the concern that it will be possible to collect them. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm finishing up. I just wanted to show you a few different effects, but I'm not making any proposals on this. I end up with this slogan: the state should certainly support the family. I think we have seen this very clearly in this House. At the moment, there is very broad support for the "500+" programme from different sides, and there is also support for other solutions. At almost every meeting, we adopt some family solutions. Today we have accepted and I think that after tomorrow's amendments we will adopt solutions for people with disabilities. We took care benefits two weeks ago. So that there are many solutions. We're not so different here. But we should be a supportive state, we should not be an overprotective state that shows families what to spend money on, and what not to spend on when debt can be recovered from them. Well, these debts can be incurred for the purchase of an apartment. Sometimes people are in debt and they don't pay back, and sometimes it's just 500+ that gives them a chance to pay back, because without it, they wouldn't have anything to pay for it. If they pay off the apartment, they'll have peace, they won't have the problem, and eventually they'll be able to live peacefully. So it's not a drama. Let the families decide that. And we're going towards an overprotective state, not a supportive family, and that's the direction I'd like to warn you about. If we want families to be strong, they have to fight for their position, not be strangled. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u351	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Kaminski made his speech in the minutes. I would like to inform you that Senator Rulewski has submitted proposals of a legislative nature in writing. The discussion is closed. Would the President's representative, Mr Dera, like to comment on the proposals put forward? [[Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Dera: I must refer to Senator Rulewski's request.]] You're welcome. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u352	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I don't think the microphone's working. [[It's working now.]] It's working now, isn't it? I'll only refer to Senator Rulewski's motion. In fact, the deletion of the educational benefit, as you propose in your proposal, will lead to what is already happening in the Polish judiciary at the moment: in the opinion of some courts this is affected, so some people get it, and in the opinion of other courts it does not affect because there is a difference in doctrine. Depending on how the judge looks at it, that's what he says. And now we're talking... you said yourself that all children are equal. Then how will it be with the implementation of the principle of equality if one court judges for one and the other? No? And that will be a court order. And then what? For some it will affect, and for others No, it won't. Well, that would be a classic inequality, and that's what's caused by the legal state that it is today. And I would like to make it clear that we today, by typing it in the article. 135 §3 of the family and caring code that educational benefits do not affect the scope of maintenance services, we will ensure that in all cases this money from the state budget That's how they need to be classified. They will not affect the parent's maintenance obligation. The Court of First Instance shall examine the matters relating to the maintenance of the child by one of the parents, from the first, second or third relationships, and the court shall each determine the material situation of those children and those families, and shall require the person to maintain a certain amount, taking into account the specific case of a particular person and his specific income. And it's done individually every time. And the idea of this submission to the President is to prevent these public funds from causing us to have a huge number of child support laws, because money from 500+ will affect the situation of those obliged to aliminate, and in fact those who should put on their own children will be happy with this program. Meanwhile, they'll say, "I don't have to pay anymore." For example, 700 zł because the mother gets 500 zł for the child, so I will now demand a reduction in child support to 300 or 400 zł. And, of course, everyone will be happy with that. And yet this is what this is all about. And please note this, because this is what the Convention on the Rights of the Child says. That's what I'm saying. If you place money, it supports I will remind you that the purpose of this law, and this is clearly enshrined in the article. 4, is the part-financing of the expenditure related to raising a child, including taking care of him and meeting his life needs, is the money that comes from the budget to support these families, which mainly raises the standard of living of children. Without this submission, we would have had this situation: lowering commitments when this country gives money. Would the children get more money then? Well, no, because they're gonna get less from their parents, so the situation isn't gonna get any better, it's just gonna be the way it's gonna be. And it is through the 500+ programme that the standard of living in Polish families rises And that's the essence of this submission. That is why I would very much ask you not to take this proposal into account, because he will really bring chaos and this chaos will be sustained, will be unequal judicial decisions and de facto the idea... I understand what you're talking about, Mr. Senators, and I understand the idea that children should be equal, but by deleting this record, we're actually gonna lead to total chaos and we're not gonna find any equality in this. And as for what Senator Szymański said, I will say that of course this analysis will be carried out, but I will not fully agree with the effects that are here... Because the senator was talking about these executions, about how... wait a minute, but the idea is... In fact, when parents get that money, they decide what to spend it on. If they want to be calm and have some debt, they'll be paying off their debt just to be calm, because peace is more important to them. But in general, the idea is to help raise children so that they can have those things that parents couldn't afford so far to have a higher standard of living so that they could receive more money to meet basic needs. On the other hand, the idea of protecting yourself from execution is that... In fact, if we hadn't, it would have been like this. And that's what the paradox would be. That the State gives money for children and then through enforcement proceedings the State in other areas takes the same money and they de facto do not go to children, to families, but satisfy other claims of other entities of the State, budgetary entities etc. So it was done. We added the educational benefit to the catalogue that already existed in the article. 135. Social security benefits are also exempt from executions, benefits related to placing the child in foster care, now as well as parenting... Because there are some measures that need to go to the children and not be executed. And it's been secured. I think in this context This is a very good proposal by the President and that is why he has been accepted by everyone in the Seym, no one there has made such comments that this is the wrong solution. This is a good and necessary solution to make the money that in heavy... We come to other European countries, starting from a much lower level than other countries, of course, but let us go in the direction in which these other countries have gone, which are strengthening their families and de facto increasing their children's lives, because in the perspective of a few generations they are essential. If we don't. We are understood as those who are responsible for these matters today. Then we'll have a problem and a serious grudge against ourselves that we haven't done what we should have done. And this seal seal is the solution and guarantees that the means will go directly to the families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u353	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Senator Rulewski!]] [[In corrigendum mode.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. Quiet, please! I give the floor to Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u354	Yes, thank you. One sentence. I am in favour of this, Minister, not being executed on this witness, but also of the fact that if the case goes to court, the court will have the opportunity to take this benefit into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u355	Thank you very much. I understand you're not withdrawing the senator of your amendment. [[No.]] Thank you. As a legislative proposal has been tabled, I ask the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy to respond to the proposal presented and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Please read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u356	A joint meeting of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy to examine the proposals submitted at the Senate meeting to the draft law amending the Social Security System Act and certain other laws will take place tomorrow, 7 July, at 8.15 p.m. in room 176. The meeting of the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy will then be held in the same room following the conclusion of this meeting, on the examination of the proposals submitted at the Senate meeting to the Act amending the Law on Family and Care Code and on certain other laws. The meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the examination of the applications submitted at the twenty-second Senate meeting of the Act on the principles of determining the remuneration of persons managing certain companies will take place tomorrow at 8.30 a.m. in room 217. The meeting of the Legislative Commission on the examination of the applications submitted at the twenty-second Senate meeting to the draft law amending the act "Civil Code" will be held today 5 minutes after the announcement of the break in room 182.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-senat-22-1.u357	Thank you very much. I'm declaring a recess until 9:00 a.m. tomorrow. Once again, thank you to the Minister for his comprehensive statement. [[Adjournment at 21 minutes 21]]
