ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u1	I open the twenty-fourth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I hereby appoint Senator Alexander Swede and Senator Robert Dowhan to the meeting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Robert Dowhan. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, yesterday, at the age of 89, Cardinal Franciszek Macharski, metropolitan of Krakow died in 1979 and 2005, Vice-President of the Polish Episcopate Conference in 1979 and 1994, and since 2005 Archbishop of Senior Archdiocese of Krakow. Please rise and celebrate with a minute of silence the memory of Cardinal Franciszek Macharski. [[Everybody up.]] [[A moment of silence]] [[Give him eternal rest, Lord.]] [[The gathered answer, "Let eternal light shine upon him."]] [[May he rest in eternal peace.]] [[The assembled answer: Amen.]] Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the Sejm at its 23rd meeting on 22 July 2016 adopted all the amendments of the Senate: to the Act amending the Act on the Promotion of the Sustainable Development of the Fishing Sector with the participation of the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund, to the Act amending the Act on Minimum Compensation for Work and certain other Acts, to the Act amending the Act on Energy Law and some other laws, to the Act amending the Act on Health Protection against the Consequences of the Use of Tobacco and Tobacco Products. In addition, the Sejm adopted most of the Senate's amendments to the Constitutional Tribunal Act at the same meeting and rejected the only amendment tabled by the Senate to the Law amending the Law on Higher Education and certain other laws. In the absence of objections to the minutes of the 19th and 20th meetings, I state that the minutes of these meetings have been adopted. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 21st Senate meeting, in accordance with the Senate's Rules of Procedure, are prepared to be made available to the senators. If no one of your senators raises objections to it, it will be adopted at the next sitting. High Senate, I inform you that on 20 June 2016, the President of the Council of Ministers forwarded the report on socio-economic, regional and spatial development to the Senate. It is contained in print No 217. I directed this report to: the Committee on Local Government and State Administration, the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Infrastructure. I would like to inform you that the committees at the joint meeting on 20 July 2016 took note of the report. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose that the first, second, third, fourth, fifth, ninth, tenth, eleven, twelfth, thirteen and fourteenth items of the draft agenda be considered, even though the committee's reports on these laws have been submitted at a later date than those laid down in the Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Mr and Mrs Senators, I propose that the outcome of the Central Anti-corruption Office 2015 be deleted from the agenda of item 20. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. The Senators, I propose a change in the order of consideration of item 16 of the agenda: information on the activities of the Supreme Court in 2015 If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Mr and Mrs Senators, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by a point: the second reading of the draft resolution amending the resolution on the establishment of the Polonia Consultative Council and considering it as item 17 of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? Senator Jan Rulewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I propose to the High House that the order of the twenty-fourth Senate meeting be supplemented by a point concerning the third reading of the report of the joint committees which yesterday discussed the Act on anti-communist opposition activists and those who were repressed. As you know, it is a Senate initiative, so it is very well recognised by all senators. The matter also requires urgent consideration on grounds of nature. This is a chronic problem, unsolved for years, and natural issues are such that unnecessary delay brings adverse effects. It is also worth mentioning that there is a far-reaching consensus on this point for all participants in the legislative process. Finally, the last point is that there is a long pause in the work of the Senate and the Sejm, and hence this need to consider, or carry out a third reading, is obvious. I would also like to draw your Marshal's attention to the fact that the failure to take advantage of temporary opportunities has the effect that the sums allocated to payments to potential persons interested in this law will be lost, as it will be impossible to enter into force this year. Thank you for your attention and I would like to ask you to accept this request.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Marek Martynowski reporting...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u4	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I object. I believe that this point should be considered in September. In September, the Seym also gathers. We can consider this in September.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u5	Good. Then we'll vote on Senator Rulewski's motion. Can I turn on the apparatus? Because it's off. Thank you. I'm putting the motion to the vote. Who is in favour of Senator Jan Rulewski's motion? Press the "za" button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. There were 84 senators voted, 27 for, 53 against, 4 abstentions. [[Voting No 1]] The senator's motion was rejected. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? I can't see, I can't hear. I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the twenty-fourth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland of the IXth term of office. Tomorrow's session will begin at 9.00 a.m. with a point on the second reading of the draft resolution on the 50th anniversary of the death of General Tadeusz Bora-Komorowski. Immediately after considering this point, a vote will be taken on the matter. The remaining votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I would like to inform you that the point concerning the amendment of the Law on the provision of public-funded health care and certain other legislations was point 12 of the draft agenda presented, now that has changed a bit. We'll consider it tomorrow. Today at 12.00 a half-hour break will be arranged for the opening of the exhibition, the City of Mercy. I would like to inform you that today's proceedings are scheduled until 11:00 p.m. We proceed with the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Law on special rules for the settlement of tax on goods and services and the reimbursement of public funds for the implementation of projects financed from the budget of the European Union or from the Member States of the European Free Trade Agreement by local government units. The text of the Act is contained in print 260 and the committee report In print No 260 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Krzysztof Mroz, to present a report to the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u6	High Izbo! Act on special rules of VAT settlement and implementation of... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Excuse me, Mr. Senator. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, we are now in session. Quiet, please. If anyone wants to talk, it's out of the O.R. You're welcome, Senator.]] The Act on the special rules for the settlement of VAT and the reimbursement of public funds for the implementation of projects financed by the budget of the European Union or by the Member States of the European Free Trade Agreement by local government units was adopted by the Sejm on 22 July this year. Yesterday, the joint committees, the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration examined this draft law. The Act introduces the principle that a local government unit will be required to account for VAT together with budgetary units and budgetary establishments. To date, the municipality was a separate taxable person, the budgetary unit was also a taxable person and the budgetary establishment was a taxable person. Where did this come from? This was due to the fact that on 29 September 2015 the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union in the case of the municipality of Wrocław v Ministry of Finance concerning the interpretation of the article was handed down. 9 of the 2006 Directive, the Court of Justice of the European Union considered that the budgetary unit could not be a taxable person on its own, since this interpretation of the provisions of the Directive shows that it does not comply with the so-called. the independence criterion. The Court of the European Union found that the budgetary unit bears no risk of operating and takes up that activity on behalf of the municipality. Therefore, the municipality should be the taxable person for VAT. The result of that judgment was also the judgment of the Supreme Administrative Court, which stated that the same principle should apply to budgetary establishments. Therefore, it should be considered that local government units will be taxable persons for VAT, whereas they will not be budgetary establishments or budgetary units. It was therefore necessary to centralise VAT settlements for local authorities. This applies, of course, to local government, district government and regional government. This law gives self-government units legal tools in this area. It should be said that this is a law that has a special meaning. It is its special importance, its special status stems from the need to implement the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union. The Legislative Office has proposed 15 amendments. 14 amendments were adopted as a result of the arrangements with the Ministry of Finance. As I say, these were amendments agreed between the Ministry of Finance and the Legislative Office. Unanimously, unanimously, the joint committees have accepted these 14 amendments and are asking the High House to adopt the law together with the amendments resulting from these amendments. For my part, I can add that in the Seym too, this law did not raise any controversy, as perhaps one of the few Members was not. against or abstained from voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u7	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of the ladies and gentlemen of the senators like to ask such a question? Senator Hare, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u8	I have three questions. This bill undoubtedly cleans up a certain area of local finance and should be considered as something that should be attributed a positive opinion. My question concerns the preparation of those responsible for the financial economy in local government units for the planned changes. Are local authorities reporting demand in this regard? That's the first question. Two. Where a municipality benefits from or benefits from Union funds, there is a risk of reimbursement of part of the funds received in connection with the proposed amendment. Are estimates of the possible occurrence of this phenomenon known yet? And the third question. The centralisation of the accounts will take place, I would say, forward From 1 January 2017 But local authorities will be able to decide to correct the accounts. Is the scale of this phenomenon known? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u9	Thank you very much, Senator. Will any of you senators want to ask the senator a question? No. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u10	Mr Senator, I must say that none of these three issues were discussed at the committee meeting. I can only say that one of the amendments which the combined committees have adopted concerns the extension of the date of entry into force of this law. Originally, this was the date of 1 September, and the amendment proposed the date of 1 October. If today, i.e. today, tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, but in this sitting, this bill of amendments will be passed, then it will have to return to the Sejm, just like everyone else. It is not possible for the Sejm to enter into force on 1 September, as the Sejm gathers probably 5, 6 or 7 September. Local government units will have time between 1 October and 1 January 2017 for... From 1 January 2017, centralised VAT calculation and submission of declarations will be mandatory and will be voluntary between 1 October and 31 December. Some... I suspect that large self-government units will have a problem with that, smaller ones can get in faster... As I said, it wasn't discussed whether it was reported... I think the Minister will be able to answer here. Because this law was strongly consulted with the local authorities, because this is mostly about them.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u11	Thank you very much, Senator. Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Welcome to the meeting of Minister Wiesław Janczyk. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! I would like to thank Senator Krzysztof Mroza for his thorough discussion of the work on the bill in the Senate committee. Allow me, however, to develop the subject, so that in this rather difficult, complex matter, which concerns the settlement of VAT in local governments, the state also gained such an extended, comprehensive knowledge, maybe also to explain... I know that senators are in contact with the leaders of local governments, local self-government units in municipalities, cities, powiats and voivodships, so that knowledge can take place. Mr Marshal, High Izbo, the main objective of the contested law is to provide local government units with legal instruments supporting the centralisation process and to reduce the burden of centralising VAT settlement in local governments in connection with the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 29 September 2015 in Case C-276/14, Municipality of Wrocław... According to the Court of Justice, the municipal budgetary units do not bear the economic risks associated with their business activities on behalf and on behalf of the municipality and do not account for the damage caused by these activities because they do not have their own assets, do not earn their own income and do not bear the costs relating to such activities. The revenue generated is paid to the budget of the municipality and the expenditure is paid directly from that budget. The consequence of the VAT ruling is the absence of a tax separation of local budget units, which means that all their activities in favour of third parties should be accounted for by the local government unit in which the said budgetary units are made up. The judgment of the Court was not related to local budget facilities, but the Supreme Administrative Court adopted a resolution on 26 October last year in which it adopted, in relation to local budget facilities, an interpretation similar to that adopted by the Court of Justice in respect of local budgetary units. Consequently, the resolution adopted by the court should be considered to have no fiscal separation between local government and local government units under the VAT rules, so that all activities carried out by them in favour of third parties should be accounted for by the local government unit of which they are made up and the activities carried out within the local government, both between budgetary units and budgetary establishments, are internal. In view of the Court's judgment and the NSA's resolution, it is necessary to centralise VAT settlements in local governments as soon as possible. This centralisation must cover the organisational units set up by the local government, which are budgetary units, budgetary establishments and municipal offices, old offices and marshal offices. The concept adopted by the Act assumes mandatory centralisation of the settlements forward, i.e. from 1 January 2017, so that the judgment of the Court can be enforced with sufficient time for the local authorities to receive the accounts. The Minister of Finance had already informed the local authorities about this deadline in its communication, because the deadline was extended at the request of local governments. Initially, compulsory centralisation was assumed as early as 1 July of this year. The purpose of the support of local authorities in the centralisation process is to ensure that the funds allocated to the implementation of projects are not reimbursed in so far as a change in the eligibility of the tax has occurred, in the part relating to the amount of input tax financed by the funds allocated to the implementation of the projects. This law also provides for the absence of the need to centralise past accounts made prior to the Court's decision. If the local government wishes to exercise its right to deduct input tax, it will be able to make adjustments to the VAT return, starting from the earliest period for which the adjustment will be made. The government will decide what to do. Until centralisation, taking into account limitation periods. However, the condition for taking advantage of the deduction is In accordance with the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union This means that complex corrections take account of the accounts of all business units and cover all settlement periods not covered by the statute in which the local government accounted for itself as separate from its business units, from the earliest accounting period for which the correction was submitted. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, the regulations adopted by the Sejm are expected by local authorities, as they will guarantee the units of local government and their organisational units, which until the Court's judgment was delivered were treated on the basis of the VAT rules as separate taxpayers of this tax, the security of VAT settlement. To this end, the Act provides for the succession of rights and obligations to ensure entry On the date of the start of the joint settlement by the local government unit with its organisational units . in the rights and obligations of those entities, including with regard to past accounts. This means among others. there is no need to issue corrective invoices, as the local government unit will also acquire the right to deduct from invoices issued to its organisational units by entering into the rights and obligations of its units. The Act also provides for the possibility for organisational units to use, until the date of joint clearance, so-called. an individual exemption where, on the date of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, those entities benefited from such an exemption. This will also apply to organisational units whose settlements were centralised with the local government unit prior to the entry into force of the Act. The centralisation process also requires that the question of the registration by the local government unit of sales to natural persons not engaged in business by means of registering offices be resolved. The centralisation of settlements without amending the relevant tax succession rules and registering banks would imply the need to exchange all previously used by the business units of the local government of fiscal cash registers and the purchase of new ones intended for entities which have so far benefited from the exemption from trading records. In order to minimise the financial costs that local authorities would have to bear in this area, it is envisaged that they may continue to record the turnover by means of cash registers whose fiscalisation has been carried out by the organisational units, but no longer than 31 December 2018. This regulation will exempt local authorities from the obligation to exchange cash registers or their fiscal memory and will allow the recording of turnover by means of cash registers already held. At the same time, the Act maintains until 31 December 2016 the exemption of local self-government units from the obligation to keep records of turnover and amounts of tax due by means of registering banks in respect of the activities of those entities which benefited from such exemption on the day preceding the date of centralisation. The absence of such provisions would imply the need to purchase fiscal cash registers for all organisational units which have benefited from the exemption so far. Given that the centralisation of accounts may give rise to the need for a large number of registering banks to be purchased by the local government after 31 December 2016, it is justified to extend exceptionally the participation of the State budget in the cost of purchasing those accounts, guaranteed in the current legislation only for the cashiers purchased at the time of the start of the registration obligation. Draft law from the very beginning, i.e. since the end of last year, has been constantly consulted At every stage of the legislative process With a local government environment, in particular within the framework of a specially established local working group. Mr Marshal, High Izbo, this law also introduces adjustments in the Corporate Income Tax Act and in the Public Finance Act, which will allow the transfer of amounts to a budget establishment when the local government unit receives a refund of the excess tax over due, resulting from the tax return. I ask that this law be adopted together with the amendments that have been discussed by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u13	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators can report no longer than a minute's time to the Minister. Would any of the ladies and gentlemen of the senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. So thank you very much, Minister... [[Senator's voice:]] Mr. Senator? There you go, Senator Czerwinski. [[Mr. Marshal...]] I'm gonna have to take a break, but okay. A quick question and a quick answer. Because like a longer debate, it's... [[A quick question and a quick answer.]] A quick question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u14	Minister, the question is related to the content of the article. 2... [[Change you?]] [[I'll adjourn. I'll adjourn. You wanna come in and announce a break?]] [[But the break's at 12:00.]] [[And the marshal could be wrong.]] ...and specifically with the default subjective range of the organizational unit. There are units created by municipalities, in general by JST, municipalities' offices, old-fashionedness, etc. What about the associations of local government units and metropolitan unions, in particular inter-governmental unions? What about them? Because it's not in the bill here. Shouldn't they also be included in the subject matter of this law?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u15	Thank you very much for that question, Senator. Inter-governmental relations operate on the basis of local government units, carry out their public tasks to a certain extent, so in so far as they exist as local government units, they are centralized together with their organisational units. There is no need to regulate this directly in the bill. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u16	Thank you very much, Minister. The list of questions has been exhausted. I'm opening a discussion. There's no one to discuss? I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, I would also like to inform you that Senator Mammoth has made his speech in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the review of item two of the agenda: the Act amending the Personal Income Tax Act and the Act on Corporate Income Tax. The text of the Act is contained in print No 255 and the committee report In print No 255 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Jack Włosowicz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u17	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! In the past election campaign, both Law and Justice and the United Right spoke, among others. about the need to reduce taxes and simplify the tax system. This presentation, in some percentage, is fulfilling these announcements, these electoral promises. In particular, there is one change relating to the tax rate. The rate is reduced from 19% to 15% taxation, which concerns corporate income tax for small taxpayers and for those who are starting out. The second element that contains this law is the sealing of the tax system. And by 3 clarifications, 1 modification and 1 definition of the rules for determining revenue, the law is to implement this. It is intended to enter into force, as most tax laws do, on 1 January 2017. The financial impact, calculated at 8 years forward, is that, on the one hand, the sealing implies a revenue of PLN 277 million and, on the other hand, a reduction in corporate income tax of 270 million. So the balance is going to be plus 8 million, and it is assumed that in the following years this amount will be affected by the budget. The Committee on Budget and Finance considered this project yesterday. Three legislative amendments were tabled, all voted out, as was the whole project, which received unanimous acceptance of the members of the Committee on Budget and Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u18	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Do any of you senators wish to ask such questions? You're welcome, Marshal Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u19	Thank you very much. I don't know if Mr. Senator's speech was overspoken when he said that the effects of the eight-year-olds were 270-year-olds; 277-year-old income. That's the annual effect, isn't it?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u20	Yes, yes, Mr. Senator. [[Okay, thank you.]] The calculations show that such a small surplus should be generated each year as a result of this change. If possible, I will also say that this law does not really have a fiscal purpose, but its primary task is to organize the system. Even this element reducing the rate, from what the Minister has said, is rather intended to encourage activity as a legal entity Of course, when it is possible and rational.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u21	Thank you very much. Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u22	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr Senator, since we are talking here about the limit of 1 million 200 000, I would like to know how many taxpayers in Poland who do not exceed this barrier, which is exactly how many taxpayers will be subject to tax reduction, because you have already said about the budgetary implications. That's one thing. Secondly, will this corporate tax rate not complicate the tax system? After all, now we will have a certain inequality of 15%. , 19%. The easiest thing would be if this was the same rate, otherwise, as you know, it opens up a field for various maneuvers, such as, I don't know, division of companies, creating new companies just to get past this barrier of 1 million 200 thousand. Isn't the introduction of a new stake going to cause some confusion? And was the possibility considered... You mentioned that the electoral announcements mentioned that the stakes should be reduced, but for everyone the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u23	Mr. Senator, I'm going to try to answer the first part of the question, and the second part about what will be possible... Isn't that gonna complicate... I ask the senator to direct this question to the Minister. As far as I remember, the definition of a small taxpayer is laid down in Article. 2 pkt 25 of the VAT Act and it is stated that if the value of the sale together with the tax in question did not exceed EUR 1 million, this status can be acquired. This is now being converted, of course, into gold values according to the euro rate of 1 October of the previous year. And this year this amount is PLN 5 million 90,000. And there are 396,000 taxpayers, if I remember correctly. This is the answer to the first part of your question. And the question is whether this will cause even more confusion, rather than simplification, I would ask you to address the Minister, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u24	Thank you very much. Senator Grodzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I would ask for clarification, although perhaps I do not fully understand... Well, in Poland there are many single-person operators, so that we do not look for examples far away. For example, medical offices. Will they also be covered by this regulation or not?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u26	No, sir, they won't. This regulation is addressed to legal persons. So if someone's running a one-man operation... That's the kind of person they have... There were questions about this at the committee meeting, there was a discussion about it. These people have other opportunities, they have more opportunities or ways of taxing themselves: in the form of a card, in the form of linear taxation, in the form of a tax 18% and 32%. And that regulation doesn't apply to them.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u27	You're welcome, Senator Major.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u28	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator rapporteur, this is a very important law, especially as regards the reduction of income tax. I have a question: were there representatives of economic operators, economic self-government or any opinions received during the committee meeting? Did that even trigger a reaction from the business community? Were there representatives of economic operators present and what opinions were they possibly expressing? And a similar question I would like to address to the Minister, as it were, outside of the committee report.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u29	One question has been asked to the President, only that it was not from the economic self-government, or rather it concerned the issue, I do not remember exactly whether it was stock investors or... The point was whether or not this change would cause an investor from another country to have to tax his income twice, but it was... [[Non-residents, non-residents...]] The issue of non-residents. It's been explained that no, it doesn't include them and there won't be any problem.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u30	Thank you. I don't see any more requests for questioning. Thank you very much, Senator. Right now... [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Wiesław Janczyk: Yes.]] Yes? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u31	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present the Government's position on the amendments to the Act of 22 July 2016 amending the Personal Income Tax Act and the Corporate Income Tax Act, Senate Printing No 255. Thank you very much to the rapporteur, who has brought these changes closer. Postulate, one of the basic policy demands and promises of Law and Justice, now Prime Minister Beata Szydło, to reduce tax on small taxpayers from 19% to 15% It is being implemented in the form of a law that we are discussing. The Act reduces the income tax rate for small CIT taxpayers by 4 percentage points, i.e. taxable persons whose sales income does not exceed EUR 1.2 million. As regards other information that should be submitted to the High House, I would like to draw attention to a fact that may be surprising: why the effects of this law, calculated in the impact assessment of the regulation, are indeed positive on the revenue side of the state budget and local government units. The Act also contains regulations on the sealing of the tax system and it is worth paying attention to the scope of these regulations. It is quite broad, sometimes overlooked, but it results in the fact that we can say in the assessment of this regulation that it will actually have a positive impact on the revenue to the state budget and local government units, in such a way that, as we estimate, annual costs of introducing this reduced rate will amount to 270 million and the benefits of the total of PLN 277 million from this regulation. What will the changes sealing the income tax system consist of? The Act provides for a uniform definition in both tax laws of the conditions for recognising non-residents' income as being achieved in Poland, the definition of new rules for determining the income on the holding, shares in the company in exchange for a non-monetary contribution, the conditions for using preferential tax treatment in the case of mergers and divisions of companies, the conditions for applying the exemption from flat-rate taxation at the source of interest and royalties, the rules for determining the cost of obtaining income in the event of the sale of shares, the shares of the acquiring company or the newly established company. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like, because such questions have often been raised, to recall certain statistics. At the moment, as far as small CIT taxpayers are concerned, we have a group of 393 000 entities. The number of taxpayers who have shown the tax due in this group is 135 000, the number of other taxpayers - 258 000, including the number of taxpayers who have suffered losses, showed a lack of income for tax, i.e. 115 000, the number of taxpayers who have achieved only tax-free income is 114 000, and the number of taxpayers who have deducted losses from previous years is 14 000. This slightly reflects the scale and extent of who and to what extent can be the beneficiary of this regulation. One senator asked whether the consolidating environments were represented in the committee during the work. I can say this: in the Senate committee maybe no longer, but in earlier stages they were represented. It has been requested to join the group of regulated entities with higher revenues; there has been an attempt to add to the privilege of entities with higher revenues than EUR 1.2 million. There was a proposal for EUR 10 million, but the tax impact on the lost revenue of the state budget would be much greater in this case, over PLN 1 billion. We believe that at this stage there is no delegation for such an extension. It is not excluded that we will be returning to this topic in the future, but now we recognise that this scope of the bill is fulfilling the postulate declared during the electoral campaign and gives the opportunity for small companies to become bigger, medium-sized and medium-sized companies to become big players. There have also often been questions as to why such a privilege cannot be enjoyed by entities that do not operate in the form of commercial law companies. There's one thing worth realizing here. In those companies which are regulated, dividends are also taxed and dividend payments are taxed once again. There is therefore no simple comparison with personal income tax and such a large imbalance as it seems at first glance and in the first basic assessment to someone who forgets this basic fact. I can still answer questions if necessary. If there's any interest from the senators, I'm at your disposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u32	Thank you very much. Senator Grodzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u33	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, any reduction in taxes generally results in the fact that revenue to the budget... the amount of circulating money, even in the VAT system, is increasing. And you should look at it positively. That is why I would urge individual economic operators to extend this privilege as well. However, I have a question on the other hand of the barricade, i.e. on the side of fraud in the tax system. If I had a revenue company or 4 million euros at the moment, I would immediately divide it into four and then each of them would be below this threshold of 1 million 200 thousand. Are there any barriers to such abuse? Faith in good intentions is glorious, but, as life teaches, it is not always rational. That's my question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u34	Thank you very much for that question, Senator. In fact, tax cuts often increase revenue, but the government wants to make such decisions in a balanced way. We are looking forward to the first effects of an increase in revenue that is affecting the state budget. We have already confirmed this after the first half of this year when it comes to the implementation of the 2016 budget, because here is the situation that VAT revenue is increased by PLN 4.5 billion. These are optimistic data that adjust well and give a chance to design such changes. However, it seems to me that it would be responsible to wait for the remaining regulations that have already been introduced in the Sejm and have also been the subject of the proceedings of the High House, the Senate, to act effectively. We do not lose hope that this subject range will be extended when good data on budget implementation are coming in. I can also say that there is an example. year-to-year increase in excise revenue by PLN 1.5 billion, for CIT by PLN 0.3 billion, for PIT by PLN 1.5 billion. So that everything indicates that it is possible, however, to seal the revenue of the state budget. I think that in the future we will be able to go back to difficult topics, and I also say that there is no shortage of needs.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u35	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u36	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Yesterday we discussed quite a lot about this law and many questions You've already answered us. We have posed a problem of this kind: what would be the situation if we introduced a 15% PIT in the case of individuals engaged in a single business? You didn't have any information yesterday about the revenue to the state budget for just one-man business activity, which would be a loss of revenue to the budget, compared to, for example. by last year, if we had introduced this universal tax of 15% for individuals and small companies, of course, those whose gross sales revenue does not exceed EUR 1 million 200 000.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u37	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, I suspect we'll have to answer that question in writing. I merely prepared the statistics for which we were asked yesterday at the Senate committee meeting, to this extent: the number of tax payers of income tax on individuals engaged in non-agricultural activities amounted to 2 million 362 thousand 938, including tax-taxed 1 million 248 thousand 359, at a rate of 19% 458 000 590 entities, in the form of a lump sum from registered revenues 544 thousand 784, in the form of a tax card 111 thousand 205. I can still have... [[What was the tax on them?]] I know what question you're asking. I just don't want to give you the wrong answer. I have some simulations. If you don't mind, I'm going to expand this response, and it won't take long. I know it's 12:00. I want you to take a break. Coverage of 15% income tax on natural persons of taxable persons taxing income from non-agricultural economic activities. According to the 2014 tax returns, revenue from non-agricultural economic activities showed 1 million 21 000 taxpayers in the total amount of PLN 33.8 billion. The tax advance on non-agricultural business was collected from 622 000 taxpayers in the amount of PLN 3.6 billion. We assume that these taxpayers would pay tax at a rate of 15%. At that time, the income tax of PLN 33.8 billion would amount to PLN 5.1 billion; this is more than the amount shown in the 2014 tax advances. It should be noted that taxpayers taxed on a tax scale benefit from a tax reduction amount and also from tax reductions, inter alia. with relief for children who have an impact on tax reduction. Coverage of 15% of income tax on individuals of small taxpayers taxing income from non-agricultural economic activities or special agricultural production divisions at a rate of 19% of tax, i.e. taxable persons whose gross sales revenue has not exceeded in the previous tax year the amount in PLN corresponding to the equivalent of EUR 1.2 million. It is estimated that the proposed solution will result in a reduction of the revenue of the public finance sector of the state budget and of the private income tax JST by PLN 2.3 billion in the first year of the regulation. Mr. Senator, these are the data I have so to speak. At the moment. If necessary, we will respond in writing, and we will prepare an answer to the interpellation. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u38	Thank you very much. Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u39	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I wanted to ask you a question about the numbers that we discussed at the committee meeting, but thank you very much, that is quite enough. However, I would like to return to Senator Grodzki's question. The Minister answered in general, so I will repeat the question again. Minister, do you foresee in the tax collection activity instruments that may be triggered in the event of or in the situation that you were referring to as a senator, the division of the company into four companies, one million euros each, in order to... I'm talking about dividing the company, the commercial law company, into four, to avoid... or, like, to get the opportunity to settle with a smaller tax. Because it's a clear avoidance of taxation. Do you foresee any measures and instruments in this regard? And is this law, which is today, sufficient to prevent this kind of activity?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u40	I have to say And thank you for that question, Senator. The law generally has to keep up with the changes and ideas that tax advisers and stakeholders themselves create in this area, but I don't think the law has ever kept up with these changes as quickly as in recent months. This is a matter of law that is already in force, a question of circumvention clause, and As you can see, if we literally and very precisely read this law, it also includes a number of regulations that will not permit circumvention of tax law. And I think that's good news.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u41	Thank you very much, Minister. And the last... [[The penultimate.]] Oh, good. Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u42	Minister, thank you for saying that Poland is not in ruins, because, as you said, VAT revenues, from PIT, with CIT, are increasing compared to last year. That's what we're happy about. And something like that is always an opportunity to lower taxes. You've been talking about over 2 million taxpayers, individuals. This bill, as you said, concerns 393 thousand taxpayers. They are legal persons, i.e. mostly commercial companies. And here you've also distinguished the ones that bring income that have losses, and you've told me what it looks like in this particular group. My question is this... Well, I'm sure it's always best that the tax is simple, uniform for everyone, so that there's no possibility of any attempt to circumvent it. So my question is, are you considering... wouldn't the introduction of this small group of reduced taxes complicate the tax system? And doesn't that involve, especially for the authorities, the complications of accounting? Doesn't it just matter, but can there be complications? And is that worth doing? Because in general, you said there'd be an increase in revenue, an increase in taxes on this group. Which, of course, is very interesting if you consider the fact that you were talking about this seal... Okay, I get it, I just... Because, in principle, it's not that simple, but we know that in times of economic times, tax cuts even increase taxes. Therefore, I have a question: are these rates introduced only for this small group Although it may need to be resolved comprehensively... Wouldn't that complicate the tax system and cause what my colleagues were talking about? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u43	Mr. Senator, thank you. We think... In our opinion, this will not complicate anything, and it will be worthwhile for taxpayers to think about the scale of revenue their companies generate. In fact, we are dealing with a situation that will be summarized at the end of the year, so that it is worth to lean on this subject once.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u44	You're welcome, Marshal Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u45	Thank you very much. Minister, I'm sorry, because maybe I've listened a little careless and I haven't recorded certain data. Namely... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Wiesław Janczyk: I will hand them over to the senator.]] Yes? That'll be in a minute. As I understand it, I think 393 thousand companies are these companies, CIT payers, whose income was less than EUR 1 million 200 000. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Wiesław Janczyk: Exactly.]] Except you split them up later, I understand, according to whether they're profitable or not. And, as I understand it, for 2015, yeah? Is it 2014? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Wiesław Janczyk: 2014.]] 2014, okay. Could you do that again?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u46	I'll say it again. ... Of these, the taxpayers who had shown the tax due were 135 thousand, the remaining 258 thousand. And in total, the senator remembered it correctly. It was 393 thousand. I still have a breakdown about the others, including the taxpayers who suffered the loss of 115 thousand, those who achieved only tax-free income were 114 thousand, and those who accounted for the losses of previous years were 14 thousand. [[Sure. Okay, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u47	I don't see any more requests for questioning. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Wiesław Janczyk: Thank you.]] Dismissed until 12:30. [[Adjournment from 12 minutes 00 to 12 minutes 31]] I'm reopening the session. We are returning to the questions of the Minister of Finance. There's one more question, Senator Kleina. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u48	Mr. Marshal! Minister! During the break we talked about yesterday's publication in the Republican Republic, paying attention to a problem in this bill we are talking about. I'm talking about the problem of taxation of companies that... Polish companies commission... They give such an example: the Polish company orders a foreign company to perform some services outside Poland and this activity is taxed in Poland. And here the journalist points out that so far the court rulings have been such that they have given a chance to tax exemption. Could you explain this problem so that we can simply, so to speak, answer the questions that have appeared in the media?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u49	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u50	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Mr. Senator! Thank you for that question. Indeed, such material appeared. In our view, he draws attention to the problem, but our law is the one that solves this problem and causes us not to deal with different decisions in this regard. I would like to point out that in the article. 2 We have a record of this type, that for the income generated in the territory of the Republic of Poland by the taxable persons referred to in paragraph 1. 2, in particular, income, income from... and in point 5 shall be regarded as: the title of regulated duties, including those placed at the disposal, paid or deducted, by natural persons, legal persons or organisational units not having legal personality, residing, established or managed within the territory The Republic of Poland Okay. Okay, okay, okay, - regardless of the place where the contract was concluded and the performance of the benefit. This will cause the Polish payer who uses the service, or has a company registered in Poland at the time of payment for advice, advertising to an entity located abroad, to pay a flat-rate tax on this service to the Polish tax office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u51	Thank you, Minister. Are there any more questions? Mr. Senator Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u52	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This law is so-called for now. small taxpayers. Will you monitor the operation of this law if it turns out that revenue to the budget at this 15% rate is more? Will you be able to, or will you want to extend it to all taxpayers? Because it may turn out that at a rate of 15%, it is more beneficial for the budget than at a rate of 19%. When are you planning such a possible monitoring of the operation of this law?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u53	Mr. Senator, we will, of course, monitor the effects of this regulation as soon as possible. It seems to me that this is a good question only that this test that appears here will give a picture of the situation in the market, which in turn can trigger the action that is expected. In the direction of tax reduction. Let me remind you that the basic declaration of our group at the time of the election was that we would not raise tax rates. And this is a declaration we're trying to keep. Of course, we know what market expectations are about tax reduction. I will remind you that taxes in Poland, when it comes to economic activity, do not belong to high, do not belong to the highest. There are many countries that have much higher taxation of business revenues. This is undoubtedly a balanced step, a test which can then trigger the next expected action in a responsible manner.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u54	Thank you very much, Minister. We've exhausted the list of senators who volunteered for questioning. [[Voice from the room: There will be a written reply for Senator Kleina...]] Thank you very much. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Wiesław Janczyk: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to remind you that after the break we returned to the second agenda: the Act amending the Personal Income Tax Act and the Corporate Income Tax Act. Senator Borowski was the first to speak. [[No, Blackbeard.]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, yes, Blackbeard. I'm sorry.]] Excuse me, this is Senator Blackbay. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u55	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Any bill that reduces taxes and seals the system is certainly commendable. It should be said that such projects are projects good for the Polish economy, for Polish taxpayers. However, as an opposition, I would like to make a few comments on this project. Mr Senator Rapporteur, Senator Włosowicz, said Mr. Minister confirmed this. In the election campaign, Law and Justice spoke about tax reduction and the simplification of the system. This system project does not simplify, and according to studies on the Polish tax system we are at one of the last places in Europe in terms of readability, simplicity and complexity of the tax system. It's something entrepreneurs complain about. This is something that non-business citizens are complaining about. According to the opinion-makers, the Polish tax system in this area needs to be improved. The introduction of an additional tax scale is not a simplification of the system. The system should be simple - 15% for all those whose turnover is EUR 1 million 200 000 over a period of time, because it does not have to be done once. We understand that the budget with so much expense as you promised in the election campaign... It's not possible that we're gonna bring it in quickly, but in a certain... One of the senators asked if it would be assumpt to introduce 15% tax for natural persons. 400 000 people doing business in the form of companies will be affected by this bill. 90% Companies carrying out their business in the form of commercial law companies will be affected by this law regardless of whether they have a profit or not in the report for the previous year. Theoretically, almost 400 thousand... and 2 million or almost 2 million people doing business like individuals will not be affected by this bill. You can say that you promised to reduce taxes, only that as usual you forgot to add that for some 2 million people will not benefit from this kind of privilege, anything to say, move in the right direction. Equal treatment of economic operators irrespective of legal status should be a target action. This can be done in stages, but that should be the goal. There is no argument, Minister, that commercial law companies still pay dividend tax. And if they don't pay dividends, they just multiply the company's assets, whether they pay for it... I don't think so. Therefore, the various arguments put forward, why we are introducing only for companies governed by commercial law... In the debate in the Sejm there was also the argument made by the Minister that we support stable entities in terms of legal form. Well, a company of commercial law is treated on an equal footing with persons engaged in economic activity as individuals. That's one thing. Secondly, supporting only the conduct of business in the form of companies governed by commercial law... Well, it is known that starting a company, starting a business or doing business as a company is more complicated, cost-consuming, time-consuming than doing business as a natural person. So these 2 million people doing business in the Polish system are not affected by this law. Glory is that 400 thousand people are affected, but more than 2 million are not affected. And that's what you have to say. The question is, will there be a next stage? I hope he is. Therefore, on behalf of the three senators, Robert Dowhan, Thomas Grodzki and my own, I would like to make an amendment to this law, extending the scope of... One million 200 thousand is this limit, but for all those doing business. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u56	Thank you very much, Senator. Now, Mr. Marshal Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u57	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, because of my professional past, I would like to express my solidarity with the Ministry of Finance, which must now, in colloquially speaking, think about how to fulfil the promises that were, well, very generously handed out during the election campaign. There are problems with the tax-free amount Today, we discussed this at the committee's meeting. With retirement age, with the Franciscans, all of this falls on the head of the Minister of Finance and on the staff of the Ministry. So once again, I express my solidarity. This case is still relatively mild. Indeed, the promise concerned only one group, the promise made, seems to me, a little without a deeper thought, on the basis that it is quite a small sum In fact, the calculations show that this is 270 million zlotys, and thanks to the sealing used at the same time, this loss can be reduced at all. So it's a small amount, and there's no problem making that promise, and it looks nice to be down from 19% to 15%. But here's the first thing: from the data you've quoted, it appears that this benefit... Although 270 million sounds good, given the number of these entities, this benefit is about PLN 2,000 a year. So let's just say it's not enough. It actually had such a propagandism. But this results in the second consequence, that if this tax, which individuals have so far been able to pay, or at a rate of 19% , or 18% It stays as low as it gets. And the small business community is asking: Why? Of course, the problem is that here, the cost is 270 million, and there the cost goes into billions. Well, just that you had to think about it earlier, it could decrease after one percentage point for a few years. Maybe it was the right thing to do. This, however, causes some inequality. The argument which is contained in the explanatory memorandum, which was also quoted by Senator Włosowicz, namely that taxpayers who, as individuals, conduct... have a choice of different tax methods. That's 19%. And that's 18%. and 32% And that's a flat-rate tax on registered sales, and that's a tax card. However, it does not withstand criticism because... First of all, as far as the tax card is concerned, this applies to companies employing one, two or three persons. It's on the tax card. She just doesn't let companies use it a little bit bigger. As far as flat-rate sales are concerned, the flat-rate sales tax is probably seven. - or eight times less than EUR 1 million 200 000, so a large proportion of these companies cannot think of such a thing at all. I don't know if they're making it worth their while. So it's just companies, physical... that pay 18% today. or 19% They pay so much and don't switch to other tax methods because these other methods just don't pay off. Therefore, when they hear that a similar company, similar size, maybe even operating on the same market, in the same industry, will now pay less tax... Well, no matter how much smaller it is, I've already talked about it. However, this psychological effect is negative. Therefore, I would like to say that I am signing the amendment which has been tabled here, which has been announced. That doesn't mean I'm voting against this bill. Because if the government thinks it can afford to lower that tax, it has to be done. But what we're talking about here is the gleaning of certain unfinished and thought-out electoral promises. Except once again, this one was relatively milder. Finally, I wish the finance minister good luck in his further hard work. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Mikołajczyk made his speech in the minutes. I also inform you that the proposals of a legislative nature were submitted in writing by the senators Czarnobaj, Dowhan, Grodzki, Kleina, Borowski and Kilian. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Wiesław Janczyk: Yes]] Yes? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u59	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for your conclusions. I do not hide that these issues appeared during the debate, and in the Seym, and in the Senate. It is obvious that the opposition, but also many other people with concern look at what are the shore conditions for doing business, business activity in Poland. And the concern for the level of taxes is such as to create the conditions for this activity, to define a positive framework and to create incentives to take up the task of doing business, to create and maintain jobs. That's why I appreciate it. We also take care to formulate the budget, to its income. Indeed, we have been able to present such regulation today. I believe that it will encourage effort and economic activity. I'm glad to be able to present this project on behalf of the government. I believe that it is also a milestone in this second layer, which has not been given much attention here. Thank you for those words that have been made in this regard concerning the limitation of unauthorised tax optimizations. The Act clarifies and brightens this area, and will produce positive results. I am convinced that these estimates in the impact assessment are definitely modestly calculated, they are certainly not overly calculated and we will all be pleased to look at a level playing field, which is an additional incentive for those doing business. Of course, there is no simple answer to all questions and it is not possible to satisfy those who would like a very fast and far-reaching reduction of public danins. It is always a postulate willingly presented and has a good social perception. We can't change that, we're not going to change that, because that's just the way it is. I just want to say last but not least that. in France, this tax amounts to 33 and 1/3%, in Spain to 30%. This is an addition to this statement, which I have previously shown here, that the pursuit of tax reduction must also be moderate. And our primary task It is our duty to maintain the discipline of public finances, it is our responsibility. As far as Senator Borowski's question is concerned, we believe that clearing persons as business persons have a flat-rate choice, a tax card, the possibility of accepting a linear rate of 19%. or benefit from a reduction and selection of 2 rates, 18% and 32%. This gives some room for manoeuvre to optimize the scale of business and the scale of public-law danins to which business is subject. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u60	Thank you very much, Minister. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act on amending the Act on tourist services and the Act on compulsory insurance, Insurance Fund and the Polish Office of Communication Insurances. The text of the Act is contained in print No 257, and the committee's report In print No 257 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Andrzej Stanisławek, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Yesterday, at the joint meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, the Act on the amendment of the Act on Tourism Services and the Act on Compulsory Insurance, Insurance Fund and the Polish Office of Communication Insurers was discussed. The meeting was attended by the senators of both committees and guests. It was a government project. The Ministry of Sport and Tourism was represented by Minister David Lasek and his colleagues. There was also a director from the Ministry of Finance, Katarzyna Przewalska, and representatives of the social side, Insurance Guarantee Fund and the Polish Insurance Association. There was also a rapporteur, Maria Zuba, and our Senate legislature, patron Beata Mandylis. The Act was discussed by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Sport and Tourism, Minister David Lasek. The Act aims to strengthen the overall financial security system in the event of the insolvency of travel agencies. To this end, a Tourist Guarantee Fund will be set up in the form of an account maintained by the Insurance Guarantee Fund. The Tourist Guarantee Fund will provide, in addition to the basic system, a system supplementing the financial security of travel agencies, so-called. The second pillar. Counselor Beata Mandylis responded to this law; she had doubts mainly about the wording of the article. 5c, that is, he is unreadable. The director at the Ministry of Finance, Ms Katarzyna Przewalska, informed that this should be read together with the entire article. 5, where all this is explained, but due to certain doubts of the senators, Minister David Lasek has proposed such a solution so as not to amend the article at the moment. 5c, only when processed by the Ministry of Sport and Tourism so-called. A big bill, and it's gonna be in the fall, then we could fix it. A vote was held and the bill was unanimously adopted by the committee without any amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u62	Thank you very much, Mr President. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[Yes.]] You're welcome, Senator. First Senator Hare and then Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u63	Mr. Marshal, this Act introduces the Tourist Guarantee Fund, which is intended to secure clients of insolvent travel agencies. What control measures are envisaged for the assessment of the risk of the activities of tourism organisers or their financial status in order to eliminate the activities of unreliable travel agents?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u64	Thank you very much, Senator, for that question. I can't answer them. You're welcome to address them to the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u65	Thank you. Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u66	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, we all remember the trouble with the bankruptcy of the tourist offices to bring our tourists back to the country. My question in this title... Because it is written that the contribution to the fund is calculated at the amount of no higher than PLN 30 per customer for the conclusion of a service contract, etc. So that's not more than 30 zlotys. What shows that 30 PLN rather than more? I don't know how it's gonna be separated. And my question is, in that case, what funding will be obtained from this law. And it could be compared if you had such information as it was in previous years, namely how much money was needed to attract tourists in the country. And will those measures in Pillar II cover the threats that were? And maybe one more question, Senator Hare was asking that question at the moment. I mean, this fund is going to be a special fund, and someone is going to settle it, so I understand that the Marshal's office will also have a specific task. The question therefore is: what is the intended operation of this fund? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u67	Thank you very much. The contribution from 0 PLN to 30 PLN refers to the risk and transport distance in which the tourist bought the service; if it is in the country, the rate will probably be zero, because the danger is much less. However, when asked how this is specifically calculated, I will not answer. The Minister informed that there are already some possibilities for monitoring this type of contribution, and the further away, the more difficult it is, the more expensive the event, the greater the contribution. I don't know, it wasn't discussed at the committee meeting, as it was in the previous years, how big the costs were. I think the Minister will be able to answer such questions. The warlord's got surveillance, so he's in control. And how will this be done in practice? I think so so far. There is an Insurance Guarantee Fund, and the Tourist Guarantee Fund is only part of this Insurance Guarantee Fund.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u68	Thank you very much. Senator Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u69	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. This is indeed a necessary law, but it will generate specific costs. If I may, I would like to know whether the Ministry of Sport and Tourism has conducted any estimates or studies on the increase in prices of tourism offers after these changes have been made. It is very important that there are 2 pillars, only that in my opinion the first pillar is as if it does not work with the second pillar when it comes to financial collateral. Should not a similar solution be applied to the first pillar, the guarantee scheme, in case of sanctions for non-payment traders to the Tourist Guarantee Fund, so as not to lead to a discrepancy between the first and second pillars? And the question of self-government. Will the new duties imposed on the Marshals of voivodships in the field of control result in additional burdens on the budget of voivodships and have the scale of these burdens been estimated? What's gonna happen this year? Will the anno 2016 industry, driven by such unrest, come out of this unharmed? Finally, such a brief question: is it taken into account to safeguard the interests of subcontractors? We know very well that such companies are a huge number. Or just the safety of a particular company... We know that there are very big problems with the recovery of funds for subcontractors, and it often happens, unfortunately, that it ends with the bankruptcy of the company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u70	Thank you very much. At the committee meeting, there was no question of compensation for subcontractors, so that I have no knowledge of this. And as far as the operating costs are concerned, from what I remember, they're supposed to be about 2.5 million in the first year, and then they're going to fall.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u71	Thank you very much. I see no further requests for questions to be asked by the President. Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much.]] The draft law was introduced by the government. The Minister for Sport and Tourism has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. There's a Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Sport and Tourism, Mr. David Lasek. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Sport and Tourism David Lasek: Yes.]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u72	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! Thank you very much for your questions, they will help me, I think, organize the knowledge or information about the Tourism Guarantee Fund. I would like to make it clear that some geopolitical phenomena, unfortunately, are the reason for working on your revision today, which increase the risk of the insolvency of travel agencies due to restrictions on travel of Poles in directions which have so far been very popular. This concerns those destinations that focus on the Mediterranean, the Arab countries, but also the metropolises. Even those on our continent Which are now not free from certain risks, a certain threat. And I would like to say that the provisions of this law are actually facing these dangers, simply decreasing demand for certain directions. Travel agencies, tourism organisers and tourism intermediaries face a threat or increased risk of bankruptcy. And in this particular situation we want to safeguard first of all the interests of citizens, interests of Poles, who often spend the whole year saving money for travel, pay in travel agencies for tourist events, and then it turns out that for reasons beyond their control, sometimes also from tourism organizers and tourist intermediaries, there is a bankruptcy and this bankruptcy causes various kinds of human dramas. You will remember that a few years ago this happened, I would say, a wave of bankruptcy of tourism organizers and many people were directly imprisoned at airports, under hotels. It was an absolutely appalling situation. And although this is already somewhat a story, it was tried to increase security in the first pillar a few years ago such a billing novel was introduced so the safeguards in this so-called. And the pillars are higher. Still, there's a risk that... well, there's still danger. And from this point of view, I think it's very important that this legal solution is launched this season. Today I can inform the High House that we've registered... I don't know, maybe six bankruptcy travel agencies, but they were small offices. The first pillar guarantees cover the costs of such bankruptcy, but we do not know that the end of the season will not bring Let's hope not. An additional, greater wave of bankruptcy. I'm now going to the senators' questions. With regard to the control system, how businesses will be controlled and how contributions will be paid, this mechanism is quite simple and, moreover, non-restraint towards entrepreneurs. We do not impose any additional obligations in this new system that would go beyond the current business activities of the organisers and tourist intermediaries. Any entrepreneur following the entry into force of this law will be obliged to make a monthly declaration that will actually confirm or verify his monthly contributions. In each month covered by a premium, starting at the time of registration in the central register in which the organisers and tour operators will be registered, each such entity will be required, first, to pay the contribution within 21 days after the month in question and, second, to make declarations. And comparing these declarations with contributions will be one of the control mechanisms. In addition to this additional, third and last obligation of entrepreneurs will be to keep a list, lists of contracts that are concluded with customers, because the contribution depends on the number of persons covered by the contracts It's not from contracts, it's from the number of people. We've come across here, too. This was explained in the consultation procedure. Entrepreneurs' expectations. Well, we have left them some freedom in terms of communicating this information. I do not think that this would be any additional major obstacle for those engaged in business activities. I would like to stress very clearly that this solution, which the government proposes, favours customers, secures them and is very pro-consumer, because now that this novel has come into force, there will no longer be a risk that the funds will not be returned 100%. Well, we're not talking about the most drastic situations when customers come from abroad. In fact, it secures the 1st pillar, but later begins the investigation of reimbursement, which results from unfulfilled or interrupted tourist events. This fund will be up to 100%. He was depreciating the risk of not returning these funds to customers, citizens. So that this solution is extremely valuable and important, and what's more, it also serves travel agencies in this form, because travel agencies will enjoy more trust. Now there will be no more risks. and this risk may also be an element affecting consumer decision-making That the funds that will not be consumed... spent on a tourist event will not return to the owners, i.e. those who order and contract the event. I'm talking about clients, of course. Ladies and gentlemen, as regards the duties of the Marshal's office, the question of this is also here. I would like to go back in time to the public consultation. The marshals did not submit any negative comments, all marshal offices, all local authorities were in favour of this solution. In no clear, visible, quantifiable way will the costs of functioning of marshal offices increase. The voivodship authorities will carry out their duties properly to the same extent as before, i.e. based on this so-called. And the pillar. So the costs of functioning of the local government will not increase. As regards the increase in prices for tourist services, they will, of course, increase by this contribution. As the Senator rapporteur has already said here, it is foreseen within the range of PLN 0.30. I'll explain how it's gonna be regulated. Everything points to this... By saying everything, I support the results of research carried out by the European Commission or by the World Tourism Organisation, which prove that customers are willing to bear an extra cost to only feel safe, also in financial terms. And here the practice will probably be that the organisers of tourism and tourism mediation will transfer these costs directly to the customer's website, to the consumer's side, which I think is acceptable. And in fact, when we imagine the financial scale of such a trip, when we assume that it will be an average of about PLN 10,000, while the average contribution, as we calculated it, will be between PLN 10 and PLN 15, I do not think that this will make a fundamental contribution to this type of service and constitute any obstacle to the trips of Poles for a dream holiday. All the more so because it increases, as I say, the safety of the customer, and also creates trust, builds trust in the organisers of tourism. As far as sanctions are concerned, here it was raised with regard to Pillar I that they are as if they are not harmonised with what is envisaged for Pillar II. And that, too, I would like to say, creates a context for this solution, for this proposal to amend. We stand, High Izbo, before the obligation to implement a new directive by 1 January 2018, which re-writes or describes Member States' obligations in respect of tourism events. It introduces much bigger and deeper changes as regards the panorama on which Polish tourism policy will work, these changes are deeper both in terms of subject matter and subject matter. Moreover, we will be able to consider all possible demands for change, make facilities or improve this solution. So, since September, as the rapporteur also mentioned, we are beginning to work intensively to introduce EU solutions into Polish law in this area, comprehensively, on a 1:1 scale. And this will also be the time when we will compensate for this lack of balance between Pillar I and Pillar II on existing sanctions. About the subcontractors... That was the last of the questions that came from the High House here. However, the essence of this law is to safeguard the interests of customers. As far as subcontractors are concerned, they are not directly affected by this change. The point is that customers, citizens are 100% I'm sure the money they spend on vacation will come back. So, as far as these solutions are concerned, I assure you, by referring also to the obligation to implement the directive, that we will be working on this in the Ministry from autumn onwards. When I look at what I've memorized, registered, I think I've run out. I hope so. The catalogue of questions. Thank you, Mr. Marshall, High Izbo.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u73	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u74	Minister, the relationship between Pillar I and Pillar II is not entirely clear. I am afraid that the real burden of fulfilling the commitments will be shifted to this new pillar. Today we have a situation that the entrepreneur is obliged to present to the Marshal a guarantee or insurance to guarantee these payments. So first of all, we should ask why they were not always guaranteed, since they should have been guaranteed in accordance with the law. I understand that it is much harder to recover money from the guarantee, even from insurance, and you have to act faster, but there was a system developed. The marshal paid off, the voivode returned, and then it was enforced, with worse or better results. Aren't you afraid, Minister, that this first pillar will now disappear to the limits of fiction? I mean, wouldn't it be that minimum-security guarantees, minimum-security insurance? Because we have the Tourist Guarantee Fund, so why pay twice for the same? Imagine the situation of an entrepreneur who does all this fairly; he has a guarantee or insurance for the whole, and now, due to the same risk, a charge is still charged to customers. The same risks that are already covered. So what's the relationship between these two pillars? Wouldn't it be like that? The marshal who decides where he's gonna take the money won't take the shortcut? I'd probably do that if I were him. I'd go to the fund, to the new fund, because there's money in it, they're gonna be there, and they're not gonna follow a hard path up the hill, and they're gonna enforce some kind of asset guarantee, some insurance that might be hard to enforce. However, so far such cases have occurred in this current system. So, I ask you very much to explain how you imagine the functioning of this additional pillar in practice, because in my opinion, the bill actually has a flaw, does not specify... There is no record that only when it is impossible to enforce from the first pillar, we reach for the second pillar. There's no such thing. Don't you think that's the flaw in this bill?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, I'm glad, because as far as you're concerned, what you've specified with a changed tone of expression is that the bill doesn't clearly describe the sequence of actions, i.e. The fact that the second pillar only works after the possibility of the first pillar has been exhausted, that's what I feel... I'm sure it's written straight down. I also assure you that this solution is a solution that... I will not say that it is a solution that introduces double safeguards and that it is unnecessary, because in fact the tone of your speech might suggest that perhaps we are actually creating some excess in terms of safeguards. Please note that 2 years ago in the case of 4 types of I-pillar security, these limits have been raised, so now anyway this I-pillar should be enough. But the practice also teaches... This is a painful practice, especially for customers who, using just this 1st pillar, recovered sometimes, even after years We've very narrowed down some of the procedures and their deadlines. appropriations spent on tourist events. I think that's the most important thing, fundamental. Of course, we cannot preemptively predict the behaviour of entrepreneurs, we cannot assume that they will try to be dishonest when it comes to these mechanisms, solutions. But the proposed change is so clear and safe that, in my opinion, it excludes or at least minimizes very much the risk that the senator was polite to mention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u76	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Bonisławski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u77	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have a question. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 10f point 3 states that the Minister responsible for tourism, in agreement with the Minister responsible for financial institutions, may determine the amount of this contribution at the level of 0 to 30 PLN. I just want to ask you how this mechanism works. Is this to be done at the request of the entrepreneur? What does that tell you? That's the first question. Two. It is known that rest, vacation always combines with pleasure, with some unscathedness. Very often companies fall due to carelessness, too large discounts, etc., but also very often because of the consciously accepted course for fraud. I admit that as president of the tourist hall, I've fought so many times with such dishonest offices and I've seen them grow into certain good things, which means someone buys a house, a yacht, then... There is a point here: the Insurance Guarantee Fund is entitled to a claim for bankruptcy... This mass of bankruptcy is very often just an abandoned stool, desk and decorations of the travel agency, none of which remains. I would like to ask if you have any mechanisms that would legally take away these undeserved laurels, which would later be such a dishonest entrepreneur who, after some time, could start another office, under a different name, and hire as a conductor, because here are also some consequences resulting from the bill, daughter, someone there, a friend. I'm asking because I know entrepreneurs who have fallen a few times, and they keep getting up, and they're doing the same thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u78	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Mr. Senator! The second question is probably more important in terms of the environment, the interests of the industry and fair competition, but let me answer it later, in order. With regard to the criteria for setting contributions, of course we have adopted certain criteria. They're not new, they actually already exist when it comes to the first pillar. Here the main criterion is the territorial scope of the activity consisting of the sale and organisation of tourist services. In practice, that means... We design it anyway. By saying that we are designing, I am also speaking here for the Ministry of Finance, because together we will issue an appropriate regulation, which will define very precisely the rules and the amount of contributions to be paid. And, for example, for domestic tourism, in which local travel agencies are often involved, and they are also not big, strong companies, sometimes it is an economic activity carried out by individuals, but where the risk is practically zero, we would like to keep the zero rate, as for national tourism as for tourism to safe, say, neighbouring countries. That's what we're looking for. Of course, later we will sort of rank these contributions depending on the geographical criterion and the means of transport. Although this is a simplification, it can be said: the further and the more expensive transport is, the higher these burdens will be. They can maximize the 30 PLN, but we want to be progressive and flexible here. Moreover, if we consider that the fund is growing, secures, actually 100% it amortizes, seals this system, it will by regulation sooner than by amending the law we will regulate it. So that it is theoretically possible that these contributions will decrease and the safety of customers will increase, the safety of tourists and this is a priority in terms of government intentions in this area. As for the situation you described, which is a very bad practice, we are of course aware of it. The proposed law, the amendment of the law does not apply to it and does not absorb or eliminate it. But I would like to assure the senator and the High House that this will not be the case when implementing the directive. The Directive will significantly change the entity's arrangement as regards the pursuit of business activities in tourism. We will be really determined to make such phenomena, very negative, but occurring, level or minimize. So that this is rather an announcement than a affirmative answer, rather than a confirmation that this novel can make a significant difference in this respect, Mr. Senator. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u79	Thank you. Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u80	Minister! Two pillars. I don't know if it complicates things a bit, because it concerns the same topic, which is what we usually want to do to simplify the way we are responsible, and here you are introducing two pillars, with the first pillar, as we know... Senator Augustine asked me that, and I won't say it again. And now we have the second pillar. You said, depending on the distance, etc. This contribution will be differentiated. It seems to me that it could be assumed in advance that this does not apply to tourism in the country, only outside the borders, because the task of this pillar is to bring in groups in the event of failure of the office, etc. This is the scope of this activity. So I think it was clear that this only applies to those events that are very expensive. I don't think the Minister has said anything about it, but you've mentioned the risks, that in various ways this risk is decomposing. It is different in the case of tourist offices which organize a trip somewhere near, say, just abroad of Poland, and otherwise in the case of those who organize trips to countries where at the moment this risk is much greater. So, the question is, do you... I understand that this is probably difficult and it would be easiest if everyone paid evenly, but you don't introduce it because you say 0 to 30. And you complicate the system. If it were 10 zlotys per person, per customer, and depending on how these revenues would evolve... and the state next year, in two years, you would change that, it would be an equal approach to this, but this system seems too complicated to me. So that's the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator! High Izbo! Speaking of the complexity of this solution... We wanted to apply such a solution as progressive, looking also at the interests of small entrepreneurs, precisely those who operate on a local, regional, sometimes cross-border, but not large, international scale. There was no need to charge them additional costs. Please note that the system is flexible and allows for a linear contribution if necessary. We, by launching. I hope that soon This solution, this safeguard, on the one hand we will begin to observe its effectiveness, and on the other hand we will be obliged to modify it, perhaps, when working on the implementation of the new EU directive, so that is still ahead of us. About the situation you were talking about, which is... it's just that these solutions are used to draw tourists in the event of some kind of disaster or emergency. However, these are some extreme situations and believe that the I pillar is enough for us here. There was no such situation, and there was no problem that marshals carrying out their duties under the existing system would not have fulfilled them and it would have taken more than a certain degree or more than how long it takes to prepare additional transfer, additional transport... It wasn't like our clients, our citizens were waiting. As for this, I am calm: And the pillar will secure it. But this is more about later, after their return, when their emotions will fall, and when instead of memories of their dream holidays there will often be a traumatic memory of their return from a broken holiday, these customers, Polish families, citizens had a 100% guarantee that they would recover all the money they paid on the basis of a contract with the travel agency. That was, once again, a certain imperative that we adopted as the most important guideline on this bill. I also think that the relationship between Pillar I and Pillar II is, of course, a contractual term for it, because Pillar I and Pillar II are contractual names... We will be able to modify this while working on the implementation of the Directive. But, as I say, this protection is necessary practically immediately, because we don't know... And we have such signals that we may be facing the bankruptcy of larger, large travel agencies. However, we are calm, the first pillar, after raising these minimum financial rates for existing safeguards, will allow customers to be downloaded from abroad, and by the time the second pillar is operational, we will have 100 percent confidence that customers will also get their money back. And that's the essence of this project.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u82	Thank you. Senator Florek... no, Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u83	For the first question... Thank you, Minister, because after you ask Senator Flork, I have full clarity about this. But I want to get back to my second question. You just answered a little, snuck over it as if you wanted to show such cleverness that you cared mostly about your clients. And now I'm not addressing you as a tourist, Minister, but I'm addressing you as a longtime businessman. In the Public Procurement Act in such a sector as the construction of a sub-contractor is protected by a law and at a time when the general contractor does not meet the expectations in accordance with the contract and does not reimburse him for a specified activity, the investor is obliged to pay the funds due to the sub-contractor and the general contractor is prosecuted by the authorities. Right? And I'm going back to my question here, Minister, and I'd like you to think... Because there's a huge crowd of subcontractors here. We both know that a few big offices will always manage, but those poor little companies that work for big corporations, they often fail. That is why I repeat my question: what would we think, Minister, to protect these entrepreneurs? Most of them are 1-, 2-, 3-person companies, which are worth defending, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Sport and Tourism David Lasek: That's right.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u84	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! High Izbo! Thank you very much, Mr. Senator, for kind of repeating this subject. Well, once again, the optics of this change are that outside its centre, however, the categories of entities you are talking about are left behind. But I'm in a hurry to share some good news with the High House and with the senator. The scope of the amendment resulting from the implementation of the new directive will force us to include these issues in the new law. That's where the so-called ones will appear. Dynamic packages, which means that this protection and these protection measures will also be covered by entrepreneurs, new categories will emerge. We will go beyond such a classic arrangement, within the meaning of the rules currently in force, with regard to organisers and tourist intermediaries, there will be new entities which will be covered by the new law. So that if you would be kind enough to accept such information from the government that we will be dynamically and actively proceding this case, then... I hope we will return to the High House with a proposal for a good solution for entrepreneurs. [[Thank you, Minister, and I promise I will return to that question.]] You're welcome. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u85	Thank you very much. Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u86	Minister, you were indeed right. Once again, I have read these regulations more carefully and indeed this order has been outlined here. First you have to reach for the first pillar, and only after you've exhausted those possibilities when these measures, as you say... Not even after it's exhausted, but when it turns out it's not enough. I understand that after we're exhausted... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Sport and Tourism David Lasek: Well, this is...]] ...opportunities, right? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Sport and Tourism David Lasek: You can say that it is the same.]] Only then can it be used That's the second solution. So my question is, how is this going to work? That is, who and at which point will consider that the possibility of using the guarantee has been exhausted or from this basic insurance, i.e. the so-called. And the pillar? Because my concern expressed in this first question was that now, just having a choice, so to speak, using a tool that is difficult to use and easy to choose in a natural way will be easier. And I still have that doubt, even though this recipe is. So I'm going to ask again who's really going to say that these possibilities have run out. Because if it is so that it will mean that only then will it be used when, on a judicial basis, it is not possible to download the guaranteed sum, in fact, the useful value of this second pillar will be minimal to customers. Because this is where the execution is scheduled for a particular client, isn't it? So it's not like we have a pot and we pay and then we come along. No. Here is the information about how much was missing for a particular client, and this will be requested by the fund for a particular client. That's why I'd ask the Minister to calm me down. Because I generally believe that security is needed, and this second pillar I understand rather as insurance, to insurance against what is already there. If we'd said that, it would have been less misunderstandings if it had been said from the beginning that it was insurance. Please tell me how you imagine it in practice, in order to prevent entrepreneurs from shifting responsibility to this additional pillar.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator, as far as this executive system is concerned, I mean... the pragmatism of action or the whole system, he's not going to change much. The marshals will still be the ones who will be on the front line to solve these problems. It is they who first go to the insurer, communicate with him as to the activities of Pillar I and when it is determined by means of this cooperation that these funds are insufficient, the second pillar, i.e. the insurance tourist fund, is instantly activated by informing the Insurance Guarantee Fund. This institution may have forgot to tell the High House about it, this is a solution of the immediate kind. We are not creating a new fund, we are entrusting a well-functioning, existing and experienced institution, i.e. the Insurance Guarantee Fund, with an account. This is a very cheap and fast solution. 14 days after the bill is published, this account will start working. I encourage you to look at it through the prism of time, because we're standing a little bit under the speed of time. If bankruptcy occurs, the customer may need this assistance in the autumn or at the end of the season. And the pillar will dampen it, but if That's part of the answer to the senator's question. The Marshal's office, the insurer, will find that for some reason there is not enough money to return these funds later, the second pillar, the Tourist Guarantee Fund, will be instantly activated. What's more, in a situation where... a premium obligation will be triggered this year, so maybe this fund will not have enough resources, but then The Insurance Guarantee Fund, which hosts the Tourist Guarantee Fund, will be able to grant the loan, will be able to simply transfer the money. It is a solution, as I say, and safe, and immediate. In our opinion, in the opinion of the government, this is a solution that clearly indicates when this fund, colloquially speaking, enters the action.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u88	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u89	Miss Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question about the precision of the transitional provisions. I'm talking about art. Five that has two paragraphs. Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1 clearly states: the existing provisions apply to tourist services contracts concluded before the date of entry into force of this Act. Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2 concerns the contracts themselves, but when the intermediary or tourism organiser made a declaration of insolvency... The new rules shall then apply. Doesn't the Minister see any contradictions or inconsistencies here? Second question. If there's no contradiction... Is it so that the organizer or tourist intermediary that did not make up This may be the case. The Tourist Guarantee Fund, can it use it?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u90	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The fund is primarily used by the injured, i.e. customers. I wouldn't abuse that businessman optics. Mr. Senator, yes, I am responding to the first part of the statement, i.e. We're sure there are no such risks here. The Fund shall be jointly and severally. Of course, we can't guarantee that... well, certain travel agencies will pay high contributions because they serve distant destinations, send customers to other continents. An office which did not make such declarations and does not pay the related contributions will fall, but will benefit from the Fund. This is a situation we can imagine. However, this does not diminish our determination to argue that this is primarily a pro-consumer solution. At the centre of our attention is the customer, consumer, citizen and it is he who has a 100% return guarantee the costs of travel abroad, tourist events. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u91	Thank you very much, Minister. We've exhausted the list of senators who volunteered for the question. Thank you very much for your answer. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Sport and Tourism David Lasek: Thank you, Mr. Marshal.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u92	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! The safety of customers leaving, especially in remote places for big money, is of course very important. You have to be sympathetic with those who experience difficult moments somewhere in hotels, somewhere in hotels, somewhere in airports, also with families, with small children, and don't really know how to get home. It's happening for different reasons. And of course, on the one hand, we would like entrepreneurs to have the main responsibility for these situations, but on the other hand we realise that they are not always guilty. However, sudden events can result in a complete change in financial realities or additional costs. The world has become less predictable, less secure. It can often be about evacuation from places where a party has to be stopped at all, because there has been, I don't know, an assassination or even a war. So, of course, when it comes to responsibility, you have to look for some balance between what's going to fall on the entrepreneur and what's going to happen to the client. Because if he's going this far, maybe he should take some responsibility. And the additional insurance mentioned by the creation of the fund referred to here and the contributions are the correct answer. The Senators of the Civic Platform support this direction. But I would like to raise some doubts here. First of all, I don't think this tool has been worked out. It's a good thing the Minister's talking about the fact that it's about a year before a major amendment. We'll keep an eye on it. And I think we're gonna have to look into it. Because, above all, the vague wording here, such that if the funds of these additional guarantees and insurance prove insufficient... Well, if that's the case, I wouldn't just be paying in such a fund because I couldn't, according to the law, money on request, just check if the funds actually were insufficient. And when will we be sure that these measures have been insufficient? Once all the possibilities for recovery have been exhausted for the victims. And we know that these are long-term processes. These measures are not so easy to recover. And there was often a problem about that, wasn't there? Secondly, I see here an effort to meet the needs of customers, I praise it and I voted in favour of this law, but it seems to me that in the regulations that I have been reviewing... I'm not a professional at this point, but I didn't find any proposals there that would force... that these guarantees and insurance would have to be sufficient. Yes, they are required to be here, although no longer sanctions are imposed, such as in the case of non-payment of contributions. Although there is, of course, a sanction in the form of a threat of not doing business in the future, etc. But in my opinion, the first movement should be in this direction, so that this contractual I pillar is much more powerful. Because if it doesn't, it'll be possible for an entrepreneur to play a game here. I mean. I am in charge of proving that the funds that I have with insurance and with guarantees are insufficient I don't know if it's gonna be in the form of a statement or some other simplified one, or just when the recovery turns out to be ineffective... But the Minister says it will be paid immediately. So, as I understand it, I declare that I am insolvent and transfer responsibility to Pillar II. As at the committee meeting, I would like to make such a point here that we should take a good look at the functioning of these solutions in the first period and take advantage of the opportunity to... I wish it was working as well as possible, but I have doubts that we are not really dealing with an unfair game here. I am talking about this because in these various reports about the fate of tourists there were and such information that indicated that there were people really dishonest among those running tourist offices. While you are introducing certain provisions here that say that in the event of bankruptcy, new contracts can no longer be concluded, etc., but this is not even the case, please, because before the bankruptcy is formally declared, the entrepreneur knows very well that his company is in poor condition, that the thin yarn and that it will not have any money in a moment. It's hard to tell, but we know it can be. Entrepreneurs contract their services until the last minute, and then, unfortunately, there are problems. It seems that such situations should also be taken into account by looking for targeted solutions for this major revision. Nevertheless, I would still like to say that although not all these provisions are here In my opinion and the Bureau of Legal Affairs However, given the need to secure the customers of tourist offices as soon as possible, I supported and continue to support the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u93	Thank you very much, Senator. No one else volunteered to speak. For the record, Senator Mikołajczyk made his speech in the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Occupational and Social Rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print 249 and the report of the Commission In print No 249 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Jan Filip Libicki, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u94	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present to the High House a report on yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, which was devoted to considering the Law on the amendment of the Act on Professional and Social Rehabilitation and the Employment of Persons with Disabilities; prints No 249 and 249 A. First of all, I would like to say that the main motive that dominated our committee's meeting was that this law, which had previously been passed in the Sejm, was adopted, which is rare in this term of office, in an atmosphere of very large consensus and cooperation between the opposition and the coalition. This has been stressed several times at the meeting of our committee yesterday, and this is why our committee has adopted this proposal unanimously. I recommend to the High House, according to the report, that it be adopted without amendments. This project deals with a number of issues. The first issue is the enlargement of the National Consultative Council on Disabilities, which operates with a government representative for people with disabilities with a large number and greater representation of NGOs. The term of office of the previous Council ended in October. Non-governmental organisations have been found to be represented in this Council for two terms. Representatives of both central and local authorities and trade unions were also maintained in this representation. The second question was to change the requirements regarding the qualification of candidates for the head of the Polish Migowa Language Council. It was found that such a candidate for the presidency of the Council must meet the following requirement: know Polish sign language and Polish Not as it has been so far, when there was a requirement to speak three languages that are spoken by the deaf. Now it will be welcome, but it won't be necessary. Another issue is the shift to 1 August 2017 of the introduction of a new model for the card of a disabled person. Finally, the last two things are a matter of detail. This has so far been the case, and the administrative courts have pointed out that only in a situation where sheltered work facilities have misusing the funds collected in the company's rehabilitation fund, such misuse was subject to appropriate sanctions, but it was not subject to appropriate sanctions to the mere failure to set up such a fund. At the moment, according to the project presented to you, such non-creation of an occupational rehabilitation fund in a protected work establishment will also be subject to appropriate sanctions. Finally, the last issue that the Act deals with is the possibility for companies to apply protected labour for 10 years to pay back arrears which are created in terms of financing social security or other public-law obligations. So much for my report. As I have already said, as a result of the vote at the committee meeting, I recommend that the High House adopt a law without amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u95	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. It is very good that fundamental amendments of the PO have been taken into account in the work of the Sejm committees. I also believe that it is right that we are in line with our expectations regarding the extension of work on the bill. Because the crazy pace of working on this project could have caused a lot of bad things about this very sensitive subject matter that this law is touching. On this subject, and on the occasion, I would like to ask the rapporteur, and perhaps the representatives of the government, whether, and if so, when will the Government of Law and Justice restore preferences in the employment of persons with disabilities in public administration, which, unfortunately, have been eliminated as a result of the amendment to the law at the time of the entry into force of the Civil Service Act. In addition, and this second question, children with light disabilities have been excluded from the 500+ programme. It's unjustifiable, unjustifiable. According to the scheme, the first child is already entitled to the benefit if the child is disabled, but it is only a disabled child to a significant or moderate degree. I will remind you that up to the age of 16, the degree of disability is not determined, and therefore all children are disabled without differentiation and all children are entitled to receive 500 PLN per month until this point of life, even if they are the first or only child. The degree of disability is determined after the age of 16 and then the 500+ programme deprives the disabled child of the light right to benefit, although painfully and paradoxically In many cases, only a slight degree is the result of the child's severe, intense, long-term rehabilitation, among others. a child with cerebral palsy or a deaf child. On the other hand, what savings does the two-year exclusion of these children give in a program with such a gigantic budget? No doubt families with such children have the right to feel punished... [[Mr. Marshal...]] [[It's a performance.]] ...for the effort put into improving the child and having no resources to further rehabilitate this child. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u97	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u98	I can say yes: this is not the issue directly addressed by this amendment. And I can say that at the committee meeting, as if next door, as part of talking about the whole issues of rehabilitation, the functioning of people with disabilities, this issue has been raised. As regards the first issue, namely the employment of disabled persons in public administration, the Director of the Carrier, who represented the representative, said that such preferences are used in the proxy office, but very often such persons do not take up this employment because of the need to change their place of residence or other difficulties in life. The second point was... I can also say here that in earlier work, Minister Michałkiewicz suggested that these preferences regarding the employment of persons with disabilities in public administration could be the subject of a new consultative board of persons with disabilities, which will be established on the basis of amended rules. On the issue of the 500+ gap, it was really the subject, but I can honestly say that I don't have a record of an answer in this matter. But I think the senator will be able to repeat this question to government officials when it's time for government representatives to speak here. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u99	Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. Senator Duda.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u100	Thank you very much. Senator, the matter was raised at the committee meeting. This is also mentioned in the amendment on legitimacy. Many people with various disabilities in conversations with me, in the office and not only, because much earlier, when we worked on this, noticed that this issue is very important, important from the point of view of security for people with disabilities, especially in the context of activity, and I am thinking mainly about traveling here. I know the senator travels to different places, too. So I'd like to ask you how you relate to the fact that we've rescheduled the deadline for this card once again. And this today, which looks like an old swim card or a bike card, I hear it's coming up. In the opinion of persons with disabilities The surprise of many people in different places in Europe, whether in museums or in other places. Don't you think, Senator, in the context of your disability as well? We're friends, so I'm gonna ask you this. Is it a bit unfair to the environment of people with disabilities to delay again for almost a year?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u101	Senator, in trying to combine the role of rapporteur and senator, I would like to say yes. This problem was raised at the committee meeting, and was mentioned at the meeting Since the costs associated with issuing a new legitimacy on the scale of the state budget are not large, it is several dozen, perhaps several tens of millions of zlotys In this term of office, it has already been found that, so to speak, more funding for various other programmes, including the 500+ programme, so the more it seems that this amount could be found and earmarked for printing, production and introduction into the circulation of such legitimacy. It has been considered why it is just August 17, 2017, why it cannot be e.g. from 1 January, since it is necessary to include these funds in the new budget. I can say that the answer from the attorney's office was that even if it were to set this deadline on 1 January or just January, the whole formal side would still not be possible to prepare it at such a time as from 1 January. Therefore, in a certain consensus in the Sejm, I understand that the August deadline was adopted. It was clearly stated at the committee meeting that it was a pity that this deadline was delayed. And if the senator asks me what I think, then I say I'm sympathetic with that opinion, with the latter opinion. That's my opinion, too. That's it. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u102	Thank you very much. Senator Major. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u103	Mr. Marshal! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. (PL) Mr President, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I'm rarely mean, but I've been a little provoked by that speech. I remember that in 2002 I had a meeting with representatives of disabled environments in the voivodship office and they were already demanding a new legitimacy, leaving this paper, cardboard formula, which is falling apart. Senator rapporteur, please tell us whether this thread has been raised at the committee's meeting, how many years of disabled environments have been waiting for a new legitimacy. Is this the year, or maybe four years, maybe eight years, maybe longer?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u104	Yes. The senator asks me if there's been a thread about this for how many years the environment has been waiting for this. Yes, it was moved, it was mentioned that it was a long time. That's all I can say about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u105	Thank you very much. Senator Wind. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u106	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Inspired by the discussion of legitimacy, I would like to ask such a question. The look of I.D. is important, but much more important is what comes out of it. I have to say that we are watching right now, that young and grown-ups and old people have in their wallets a huge number of different cards resembling payment cards, there is also a library card, and a tram card, etc. It's just something amazing. Was there a speech on the occasion of moving that term... Especially since we are hearing more and more, also from government representatives, about the integration of various services, actions. Should we not consider whether there is a need to multiply the number of these documents? I'm asking because it's more important to have powers, what results from this, that someone has the status of a disabled person, not the multiplication of documents that are already beginning to be cumbersome. Perhaps this card we are discussing here is not a good example for this kind of consideration, but it would be worth considering. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u107	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u108	To answer the senator's question, I'd like to say yes. The committee's meeting, which I am reporting here, was only concerned with the date of implementation of the new Charter and the financial resources that should be earmarked for it, the date at which this card should be put into circulation. At our committee meeting, there was no discussion about what she was supposed to look like and what powers should be attached to it. But I really think that's what I'm saying outside my report. It's just... it's... Undoubtedly, too, the question that should be considered and widely consulted. That's all I can say about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u109	Thank you very much. The bill was filed by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Hello, Minister Stanislaw Swede. Come on in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u110	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Thank you very much for this discussion on the very important change that we are introducing in the Act on Occupational and Social Rehabilitation and the Employment of Persons with Disabilities. The rapporteur discussed the main changes. In fact, at the end of this discussion we focused on cards for people with disabilities, and this law, I think, contains much more important changes, such as changes related to the waiver of PFRON's debts, with the possibility of paying out instalments for these debts, with the new organisation of the National Consultation Council, which, following discussions in the Sejm, has taken a new shape, as well as the allocation of the share fund for rehabilitation of persons with disabilities, and thus the issue of not providing funds for this fund. I'm going to start with a thread that was mostly moved here when it comes to cards. The answer is quite simple. I also address Senator Duda, who had previously served as Minister. It is simply the 2016 State budget that does not plan the resources for this task. Hence, 26 million is, contrary to appearances, not a small amount. This is a significant amount that needs to be found in the budget to carry out this task. I think that the plan, which has been adopted that this will be achieved by August, is very ambitious. Our ministry has asked the Minister of Finance to allocate additional resources to carry out this task. We're hoping that August 1 will be the date we're going to want to realize... And we know that in the case of different such decisions Unfortunately, there is usually a problem with implementation later, because it is not just about producing cards It's a pretty simple operation. But it's also about creating an entire IT system. Once we put this together, it'll be important. I can't agree with the charge that you raised with the senator about the fact that we're taking something from someone when it comes to the 500+ program. We're not taking anything from anyone. The 500+ program gives an educational benefit of 500 PLN. In the case we were talking about, i.e. up to 16 years of age if the criterion of income and disability is met, 1 thousand 200 PLN, and from 16 to 18 years of age, if the criterion is met, we go to 800 PLN. Nobody loses their clearance. Permission is, only you have to meet certain criteria. As far as civil service issues are concerned, preference for the highest positions has been maintained despite the prior preferences used in the Civil Service Act; the Minister knows. Unfortunately, this mechanism didn't work either. We need to find other ways to... we gave preference, and this civil servant hiring mechanism didn't work either. Maybe in fact, just like Minister Michalkiewicz responsible for this plot in our ministry... Perhaps the Consultative Board should consider this matter and try to find another solution. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u111	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Duda. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I find it a little awkward to ask you about issues that I know you don't do every day. I, too, stood here for many years and sometimes replaced my colleagues responsible for the area, so I know it's always a problem. However, if you are able to answer these questions now, please, and if not, I will ask you in writing. I will start by asking the questions I already asked on the committee; unfortunately, there was no representative of the Minister of Finance. So first of all, I'd like to ask... It is a parliamentary project, but we know very well the procedures I've used it many times, too. And we know that some amendments were made as a parliamentary project when it came to time, etc., and we did not implement the whole government project procedure at that time. Then I'd like to ask you something. The position of Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy is positive. And is there an agreement with the Minister of Finance on a new way of bailing out? That's one thing.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u113	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u114	As far as redemption issues are concerned, the matter is agreed with the Minister of Finance. So that there is no problem here when it comes to the implementation of this project.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u115	It means something happened between yesterday and today. I was pleased to hear that this issue was agreed with the Minister of Finance. Therefore, if the Minister permits, I would like to ask on what basis and according to what criteria the President of the State Fund will decide to cancel or not to cancel the interest of independently received subsidies. That, of course, concerns the article. 26a and Article 26a 49. Some criteria have to be applied. Also, in the interest of the state budget, the question is, what is the scale, but this, if the Minister will allow it, in a moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u116	Minister, you gave me the gate, so I'll answer that question in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u117	I see. I expected that. Thank you. I'm asking for an answer, because I'm curious how this is going to go. Then I'd like to move on to the next question. The answer will probably also be in writing, but I would still like to ask if there is a simulation of what the scale of the problem is today. I remember the scale of the problem a year ago. . and in relation to how many companies are individually involved in this case. As you know perfectly well, probably thanks to the preparations for today's meeting, this change is that it will be possible to cancel interest or to distribute principal and interest for 10 years. So that's the question of scale. In some time frame, can I get that information? Because that, too, I understand, isn't possible right now?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u118	In preparing opinions on the parliamentary project... Of course, that's the data we have. We can give them to the senator. No problem. [[Thank you very much. So I understand... may I ask you another question, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u119	Well, well, well.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u120	Thank you very much. So I understand that I'll also ask you to explain what it looks like on a percentage scale. That is, to how many employers registered in the SOdiR, i.e. the Co-financing and refund system, are there proceedings today? That percentage? I'd really appreciate it if I could find out what it looks like today. And another question, about financial issues. What's the financial scale? If I could get an answer... So it's not just about the percentage scale, it's about the financial scale. That's it for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u121	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u122	As I said before, we will answer these questions in writing. Some of the materials we have; I will not quote them here at the moment. Anyway, we're prepared to give the senator a written reply.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u123	Thank you very much. Senator Libicki, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u124	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! My question is this. Well, I'm not gonna count right now, which is an amendment to the rehabilitation bill, but I can say this: I started counting these amendments before I became a senator, which is before October 2011, and I counted 50, and then I stopped counting. I am talking about this 2011 in order to say that in every speech, regardless of who was the government's proxy and who was in power, I was talking about the fact that such patching and updating of the bill in pieces is not a good solution and that it is time to try to develop a comprehensive and modern bill. Moreover, I would say that yesterday's session of the Senate Committee, at which the President of the Fund for Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities spoke extremely critically about his own institution I've been a parliamentarians for 11 years now, and I haven't heard that even after the change, someone who is so short-lived would express such critical opinions. But the conclusion, in short, was that the President was also in favour of such an amendment. I realize that this is a very big problem and a big issue, but I'd like to ask you something. Do you think it would be worthwhile if we were in this term of office for such an amendment, and if you think so, what time schedule would this be in? [[Is this about the new bill or the amendment?]] It's about the new rehabilitation bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u125	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u126	I think that everyone who works in Parliament for a long time and has participated in the amendments of various laws has the temptation to rewrite something, a new law. This is probably also the case for this law. For today, there will be two decisions in our resort in terms of system changes. Since 1 September, we have launched the work of the Extraordinary Committee on Codification Change and we will be preparing new labour codes. This decision has already been made. In autumn, it will be decided to write a new labour market law replacing the employment promotion law and institutions in the labour markets, which has been amended several dozen times. In the case you're asking about today, there is no decision to write a new law, which does not exclude that we will return to this subject, given the fact that this law has been amended several times. Mr Krzysztof Michałkiewicz, in agreement with PFRON, of course, would have to speak here. I did not attend the committee meeting, so I find it difficult to comment on the statements that were made at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u127	Thank you very much. Senator Komarnicki, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u128	Thank you very much. I'm going back to my second question, Minister, and I'm asking you, if not now, maybe in writing... Let me remind you that this was about the exclusion from the 500+ program of children with disabilities to a light degree. I was the one who justified that question. As I saw, the Minister listened very carefully.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u129	Let me repeat: we're not excluding anyone from the program. The bill includes a review of it by the end of September next year. All these suggestions, including from the environment, will be considered. That's all I can say, Mr. Senator, for the moment. At this point, we certainly are not preparing any changes. The review will be carried out and then decisions will be made whether or not to make a correction. [[Excuse me...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u130	Well, well, well.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u131	...Mr. Marshal, but I want to ask you precisely. I understand, Minister, from your reply, that by September these children will not be paid for. If so, will this money be evened out at the moment when the bill is corrected?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u132	I'll explain it again. These children are not excluded; the criteria for acquiring rights are different. At the moment, with the first child under the age of 16 with the degree of disability, the criterion is 1 thousand 200 PLN. If someone does not exceed this criterion, he receives this benefit. For the next 2 years, this criterion, if applicable to the same person, is changed to 800 PLN. So the criterion still applies, but it's lower. There will be no compensation here, because we do not think that these people are excluded. There are simply other criteria for the acquisition of this right. Of course, we are talking about children with disabilities here, because in the case of children who do not have the degree of disability, the criterion until they are 18 years old is the same and is 800 PLN.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u133	Do you have another question, Senator? [[No. Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. Senator Duda, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u134	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, if you don't mind, I'll ask, but I suspect the answer will be in writing... I'd like to ask you about the art. 43 on the consultative board. Maybe it's simple, but I'm interested, and I'm not the only one. I would like to ask whether the two-channel rule will apply to the new council, whether it will be applied to the previous members of the council. Do we understand each other? Will it be so that this two-channel will be able to embrace those who are still there today, or will they not be able to compete because they were in the previous period? So I'd ask for that information.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u135	Agreed, in writing. I'm not gonna look for it right now... We'll answer in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u136	And one last question from me. I think it's the last one. I'm sorry. Probably in writing too... what will be the key to choosing an organization within these 20 seats for NGOs due to the types of disability... How will they be chosen? I'm asking you to make sure that no environment is left out. There are expectations in this area that this is as broad a spectrum as possible. And that's why I'm asking if there's gonna be a key and what choice it's gonna be. Okay?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u137	Mr. Senator, that is the intention of this environment to be as widely represented as possible in the consultation process, that is the purpose of this advice, so that I think there will be no problems here, but we will answer you in detail in writing. Minister Michałkiewicz will be here and he, I think, will answer you in detail. [[And one more remark, if you'll excuse me.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u138	Yes, yes, of course. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u139	I regret that we are not here with the representative of the State Fund for the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities at the time when we are proceeding to amend the Act on Rehabilitation. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: You are the Director of...]] But the principal isn't a representative... Minister, a little more precise... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: We accept this remark.]] Thank you very much. [[That gentleman over there wants to run the ministry.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u140	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to inform you that a government representative has committed himself to answering in writing the questions asked by Senator Duda. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u141	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First a little bit about the story of this presentation, and positively. As has been said here, it was to be voted by the Sejm as a parliamentary project on 3 June and originally, from what I was able to understand, according to the parliamentary work plan, it was to be voted on on 9 June, so it seemed that it would be going about the same way as most of the parliamentary projects in this term concerning other areas or other areas. I must say with satisfaction that it is very good that this did not happen, it is good that in the context of intensive talks, also on our part, this 2-week deadline has been preserved. The Sejm subcommittee had time to sit on this project, and as a result, one can say, and in the Sejm and in our committee this draft was adopted without a vote of objection. I note this because in this term we rarely deal with such a situation and it is worth noting that there is an area in which good practice takes place. That's very exciting. I will not talk here about the concrete legal solutions that are contained in this law, because I have already talked about them in the report. I just want to say that, in view of the consensus that has emerged, I will, of course, not make any amendments. I would like to return to the question I asked the Swedish Minister. Regardless of who exactly is the proxy and what formation he represents, we are dealing with this problem in some kind of amendment. And it's been said many times. Also, when Senator Duda was standing here, by this speaker as a proxy, and I was saying the same thing. We are dealing with a situation in which it appears... I think that at a time when the foundations of the law on rehabilitation were constructed, the subject of the elderly was not so timely. Today, Senator Augustine and I both see today, as President of the Parliamentary Disabilities Team, Mr Senator as President of the similar Parliamentary Group on Elders, that there are areas where these problems overlap. There are areas that could be regulated on the basis of common solutions, and there are areas that need to be addressed separately, but this example shows that a more holistic approach is indeed needed. I am talking here about the example of the Parliamentary Group on Elders also because I want to declare here that we, together with Senator Augustine, are ready to do this work. We are aware that this is a very broad issue and that it takes time to regulate it... First, as you rightly said yesterday at the committee meeting, Mr.Chief Carrier needs to develop a strategy. But if, in fact, 25% of this term has not yet passed, then maybe it's worth it on the timeline to sort out and try to face it. I know that this is more of a question to Minister Michalkiewicz than to Minister Swede, who replaces him, but I wanted a clear declaration to be made here that, as in a certain consensus, this law passes, so we are ready to work in a similar consensus on this overall legislative solution. Especially since Mr Kwiatkowski, President of the State Fund for the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities, said yesterday that this new law, these new solutions should be such a document Well, if I understand it well. It really creates what is written in the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. And I agree. I was a little surprised by the very critical voice of the President of his own institution, because, in fact, it's happened before, in those 11 years when I'm in Parliament, I haven't met... And finally, in the end, three things. I would like to say this: with regard to the legitimacy and 1 August 2017. I understand that the lack of resources, but I would like to point out that in this term the funds were in different situations or even were to be found. Let me remind you, the 500+ program is flagship here, but there were other situations, there was a question of funding the medical chambers, there was a loud case of father Tadeusz Rydzyk... There's financials there, so to speak, they were pretty quick and effortlessly in one sitting, so it seems that this amount could also be found somehow. But okay, here's the date August 1st, we'll monitor it. The second point is that Minister Swede answered this question, but I will raise it again. I think so. As far as I understand it correctly, also from conversations with people who come to me, that until the age of sixteen, this child has no judgment, in sixteen years of age has a light degree, and between sixteen and eighteen years of age there is a problem with this 500+. But maybe the minister's right. It seems to me that this is not the case, and that is why I allow myself to make this point. And finally, one last thing. The achievements of the previous term of office were issues of preference in public administration competitions for people with disabilities. The state largely from these competitions You quit. I agree that it wasn't a fully effective mechanism because there were other problems. Even when a disabled person met these criteria, it turned out that there were housing or other problems, etc., etc. However, this mechanism of preference existed. However, he was limited by amending the Civil Service Act. And that is what I would like to draw attention to and appeal to the presidency of the Ministry, so that, in accordance with this earlier declaration by Minister Michalkiewicz on the consultative board, this matter is discussed and some mechanisms are put in place to restore the original state as soon as possible. Mythical by your marshal, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u142	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Augustine. [[Now, I've elevated the podium...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u143	Well, a little more, I'm short, it won't take long... Now. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. Director! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! This proposed law contains the provisions expected, but, of course, the question arises as to whether the most expected. And the answer is clear. These changes, although necessary, are from the point of view of unsolved cases in the field of helping people with disabilities with marginal disabilities, they will not change what needs to be changed as soon as possible. I would like to express my opinion, which is the result of many years of parliamentary work and on which we have agreed many years before in the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy. Well, the support system for people with disabilities in Poland, however original and giving many good people with disabilities, the system for which President Lech Kaczyński received a special prize for our country in the United Nations, exhausted its dynamics, exhausted its capabilities. And it can be said that if we look at the objectives set for the implementation of the EU indicators, it would be obvious that our approach to them is going very well, we are doing badly. So it is not because there were so many amendments and there is a legal mess, a new law on rehabilitation is needed in Poland. That's not the main reason. The main reason is that, as we have heard here, we do not have the disabled sufficiently educated to find their place in the labour market. So it's about education. But we in Poland also have a bad system of ruling, as the director said at the committee meeting, and it is worth saying, because it was agreed that something had to be done with this phantom. We have a negative ruling system instead of a positive, demotivating system instead of a motivating system. We have a bad financing system, interesting, original, but containing a self-destruct virus: the more people work, the less deposits there are, and the more funding there is. And as far as funding is concerned, we have reached the wall several times, which has caused great perturbation and the need to choose whether we finance NGOs, whether we finance local governments or just focus on the so-called ones. compulsory tasks in the field of professional rehabilitation. These are huge problems. In this context, it is also worth rethinking the role of local governments. Ladies and gentlemen, we should agree that the place of the disabled in society is a matter for all of us, it is a national matter, and that neither the PFRON nor the ministry nor the state budget can bear it alone. In the meantime, PFRON's partner is mainly poor financial management, and those municipalities where disabled people live, where they have their addresses, do not perform most of the PFRON's tasks. We've changed it a little bit in the field of WTZs, but it's not enough. This requires some thought. There's more we can do if we just organize it differently. The next thing you know, it's a pension trap. It can be said that the autonomy of people with disabilities depends primarily on employment, because it only gives independence. But if you have to choose between a certain pension and precarious employment, how are we supposed to motivate you to choose a job? This is very difficult. This pension trap has not been overcome and this needs to be rethought. There's also the matter that the director, the proxy and the minister were talking about. This is about workshops of occupational therapy and ZAZs, as well as lack of flow, lack of path... WTZs are really already, as also mentioned by the president of PFRON, social rehabilitation centers, not professional training centers, which would indicate their name. Well, that was our goal, but we're only doing it a little over 1%. There's a really big job ahead of us. Well, that's just the beginning of the term. This was not successful before, but at the committee meeting, I hoped to ensure that at least those institutions that deal with the disabled directly spoke about it, and Mr. Carrier's Director, and the new president of PFRON, see the need for general change. And they are not needed because the rules are too complicated, just because, with this shape, we will not achieve the desired employment rates. It is desirable not only for EU rules but also for life reasons. We're not going to make progress in education if that's what's going to happen. Senator Libicki also mentioned here that today disabled people are mainly old people. They are already outnumbered and it must be seen that PFRON's benefits have actually been completely marginal for many years, for many years. After all, you worked with me on the committee, and you can confirm that, as far as the senators are concerned, we raised this issue and wanted to change this situation. It didn't work, but like I said, we're at the beginning of our term. In the past, it was Senator Rooster and Senator Mammoths who encouraged us to act, but now we are in a different role and we are encouraging you: time to act. As much as I declare, together with Senator Libicki, the desire to work in this area. Finally, we need to regulate these urgent, important environmental issues that are waiting for these changes, for example in terms of rehabilitation. Well, let's remind you... We would like to ask who does not do rehabilitation in Poland. She's being taken care of and the POZs, and the specialists, and the sanatoriums, and the hospitals, and the ZUS, and the KRUS, and, of course, the state fund. It's like there's no such thing. Rehabilitation. So there's also a need for general cleaning, a smart division of tasks. This is a task for the new law, for the new law, perhaps for the new structures. I think that absolutely our paths will always go where the welfare of people with disabilities is concerned. This is the case, Mr Marshal, in the case of this law which we support, but I have come out here so that we do not lose sight of the fundamentals, because these, although important and right, are a little marginal from the point of view of the problem as a whole.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u144	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Duda. [[We're only eight months old, and you were eight years old.]] [[I want to work hard on your success.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u145	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Gentlemen of Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! Today's topic, the subject of the environment of people with disabilities, always brings about the living and deep analyses that are needed, because this is a Sunday theme, are more hotter topics addressed in one House and in another, I am talking about the whole Parliament. And I have always appreciated that even difficult changes in terms of reducing subsidies were particularly understood in this House and treated as a prudent concern for the budget, for the amount and security of funding of the State Fund for Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities. So this today's amendment, although it has gone a very interesting way, because there is little left of what we read in the parliamentary project, at least as far as the question is concerned, for example, of the national consultative board, because the idea was completely different... I admit it, too. And I think the ministers, both of them, will agree with me. That the project was not a strict project It was just a government-messenger project, and we know that, that's sometimes the need. So it was the government that had to have a leading role in this regard. Once again, I'll express my regret. I was also talking about it yesterday. That's not here. also Minister Krzysztof Michałkiewicz, a person who is a government representative who is perfectly prepared to be able to build this issue. Minister Michałkiewicz and I have known each other since 1993 and have carried out joint projects. So I thank you for your reflection also during the parliamentary work, because this product, which came to the Senate, was absolutely acceptable, which is why we will of course vote in favour of it; it is already smoothed out and gives us the chance that what it was about from the point of view of particularly important elements... Because it is also about time, especially in the case of the national consultative board, in other cases time is not so crucial because it is known that it has ceased to function and will have to start working... And based on my experience, I can say that this is a very important subject, where you can listen to the voices of employers, local governments and trade unions. How important this is from the point of view of the sections of people with disabilities in the various areas of disability... So I'm really glad that this final effect looks like this. Of course, I will also tell Minister Michalkiewicz, because these are my experiences that sometimes the National Consultative Council would like to turn into a supervisory board. This is a situation, unfortunately, well, very catchy from the point of view of wanting to become not a consultative body, just... just like the board of directors of the state fund, asking for certain elements and decisions. So I wish this amendment as best as possible. And I am convinced that she will be adopted in this formula But I would also like to declare my willingness to cooperate on the new quality of the law. I'd also like to ask the Minister. I'm talking about Minister Swede. I want you to be vigilant as the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, so that you are vigilant about the issues related to the next, certainly not too distant, new European Commission regulation on State aid. I didn't make it. What am I admitting? In fact, a new law... It was caused by, among other things. The fact that every once in a while, which is exactly twice in my lifetime, has been revised... or was there a new regulation that has always caused us to tremble as to what percentage or what amount of funding we will be able to grant to employers. There was a moment... And I would like to reiterate that if it weren't for our joint action, also for Parliament, but also for the MEPs of all options... The Commission proposed a one-month co-financing rate per year. Because, as you know, And it hasn't changed much. From about 2 billion 800 million to 3 billion 100 million... This is a grant for employment, depending on the degree of disability. That's the annual scale. The rest of the money is devoted to other purposes. And then the Commission proposed to us that it be a one-month amount... which would absolutely degrade and turn upside down the Polish support system, which we are proud of in Europe and which we can often show as a good solution. But he's here today. And I'm aware of that, too. An anachronistic from the point of view of this decision, as PFRON is an institution that lives from non-employment and should be different. And this is the challenge that we face, which we must all face together... I hope this works during this term, just like... And I wish you very well when it comes to matters relating to case law. This is an incredibly difficult project. Several elements, small, have been modernised or modified, but the thorough modernisation of the ruling system is an extremely great challenge. For example, because we're talking about a non-profit system, that's why there are judgments... There is non-profit case law in our issue, but there is also case law in the issue of services, there is case law in the educational edition... It's all very complicated. Our dream once was Perhaps you'd like to continue. So that there's one case law for all of us. Whether this works, I'm not able to determine or predict today. This would be the best solution, but it would be extremely difficult from the perspective of the various interests that are here. In conclusion, I would like to say one more thing. And here I am actually addressing Minister Marczuk. I do not understand that you believe, and Minister Swed also, that since we do not rule on persons up to the age of 16... and all children with disabilities... and then we begin to judge and exclude people with a slight degree of disability... Meanwhile, this slight degree of disability What we've been talking about here It is the result of the titanic work of parents, carers and rehabilitators, so that the person concerned has a slight degree of disability rather than moderate or significant. And in such a situation they are deprived of the said measures. Unless I don't understand something. If so, explain it to me again. Do they get it or don't they get it? It seems to me that this subject should be addressed in a calm discussion. Because there really is a sense of... It's not my will. In the environment of families and people with disabilities, there is a sense that they are left on the margins. That's the reality today. Notice whether we should consider together to solve this problem. One more question you might want to pass on to Minister Michalkiewicz. There is a great temptation among employers that redemptions also affect the main amount. I'm talking about employers. And you, Mr. Director, know very well what the discussions were during the committee meeting. Pay attention to that. The question is: can this problem be solved not on a system basis, but on a rescue basis? 'Cause sometimes there's a situation... We just don't know how to put it in the legal system. Sometimes there are situations where because you can't cancel After all, there are various situations of chance that are excluded... and many jobs or even hundreds of jobs are being lost. And that's dangerous. I know that this temptation cannot... This is the temptation to die. Let me be clear: there is already a danger today that the President of the National Rehabilitation Fund will be able to reduce interest. Take care of the criteria, take care of the standards, take care of the regulations. I, as former vice president of the state fund, at the turn of the century, in 1999 and 2001, know how dangerous these issues are from the point of view of the lack of criteria and the need to look at the social situation, but also why this and not this. It must be very clear, very precise, because it gives rise to bad guesses. So I would urge you to bear this in mind, too. Let me say again: I believe that two years to introduce the card of a disabled person, Mr. Senator Majer, has been too long since the new governments, but I understand that this process must continue for a while. I think this is another, and not the last, amendment before the new law, let's say this openly, which affects us here and which contributes to the improvement of this law. Because this is another step to make the environment of people with disabilities in our country better. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u146	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Majer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u147	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Gentlemen of Ministers! Disability, disability approach, state policy towards disability always set a standard, certain criteria, and is always a basis for reference. In Poland we find ourselves in such a situation that the number of people with disabilities or the number of people with disabilities will increase because Polish society is ageing. And the ageing of the population is inextricably linked to the fact that the number of people with disabilities in our country will increase and therefore the responsibilities of the state and public institutions, which are understood more widely, will also increase. At the committee meeting, I am very pleased to hear the declarations of a change in the system. This is an extremely difficult case. One senator said that this system of assistance and support for people with disabilities is like Swiss cheese: with holes; he is with corrections, with imposing Well, it is, it's working. Building something new is always very difficult. We need to know what we want to do, who we want to do it with, who with, what, what resources and what challenges we have. And there are many challenges. At the committee meeting, as I said, there were issues of education and preparation of people for the workshops of occupational therapy, issues of lack of a whole team of methodological support, methodical support, such as schools have. But we must not be left out of sight of the most important issues. In my opinion, Dear State, the most important in dealing with the problem of disability is the level of education and the level of preparation for the life of people with disabilities. Ladies and gentlemen, I will read a fragment of the e-mail that has come to my office in the last few days: I've been a disabled person since I was born. I have a moderate degree of permanent disability. I don't get any social benefits. Even though I tried many times to do so, the decisions were denied. Registered in the employment office as unemployed looking for a job, but job offers for people with disabilities are not available. I'm not gonna quote the whole letter. I draw attention to this passage. There are, ladies and gentlemen, people with disabilities who try to find themselves on the market, but something staggered during their youth. He staggered the education process. Dear Member States, if we say that disability And here are the ministers from the family ministry. This is a social policy problem within the meaning of social assistance, the labour market, that is, Dear State, a mistake. Disability is also a challenge for the Polish school For primary school and secondary school. There, for the first time, children with disabilities receive education and are targeted there. If we don't change that... And I'm not saying, Dear State, only about the special education system, the training of these children with special needs, because these special schools are functioning. I'm talking about quasi-normal schools that are not prepared for people with disabilities, e.g. Disabled in motion. Ladies and gentlemen, the number of secondary and general secondary schools adapted for disabled people is negligible. In my district, in the Częstochowa region, on the fingers of one hand I can count schools that are prepared to receive wheelchairs. This is, Dear Lords, a mistake and this is an omission. If we do not look at the issue of disability from the perspective of the Polish school, we will not have, Dear Sire, a problem solved by people with disabilities. Another prospect of looking at disability is, Dear State, the perspective of villagers. We have Poland 2 speeds. There are, Dear Lords, residents of the city who have access to rehabilitation, education, social services, and there are residents of rural centres who have to travel kilometers to get to health rehabilitation, to social rehabilitation, to occupational rehabilitation, and most often do not overcome them, because there is no transport, there is no transport. This is, ladies and gentlemen, a challenge. In fact, evening up these 2 parts of Poland, reaching the villagers is also a task for the Minister of the Family, but also for the Minister of Agriculture. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe these are challenges. and, of course, the adaptation of workplaces, professional establishments, WTZs, so that there is an appropriate process of education and adaptation to needs To be met by the new system for managing assistance and support for people with disabilities. Ladies and gentlemen, there have been words about the government of law and justice and we, senators, are planning certain things, but it is not that we are just planning. It has been several months that we have worked over, and are, Dear Sire, the effects, also in the case of people with disabilities. There is, Dear Sir, a 500+ program that includes children from families with disabilities. In a moment, Dear Sire, there will be a 75+ programme, which includes seniors, mostly disabled people. So that, dear fellow Members, we are not only planning, although this is very important, but also acting and enjoying... And I very much thank my colleagues from the opposition that at least part of our efforts to improve the quality of life of people with disabilities appreciate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u148	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u149	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to persuade the High House to pursue a certain philosophy. The philosophy of continuation, as regards the issues we are talking about today, relating to disability, including, of course, the exchange of legitimacy, assumes that we are taking advantage of the already developed achievements, sometimes jointly and sometimes by one group, in order to continue our work in the next term of office. I think that's what disabled people expect, especially disabled people who don't expect revolutionary returns. Of course, they're willing to accept As Senator Major said, Bonus for children with disabilities, 500+, generous bonus, 50% higher. But after all, Okay, let's be honest. This is not a solution to the problem, it is a solution to the financial problem. That's it. Not to be vulgarized or even to be vulgarized The scheme will be paid out. Everyone likes cashiers at the workplace because they pay. I would like to draw your attention, ladies and gentlemen, to the fact that the continuation of disability would involve some experience that took place during the past term, with a round table. It was a round table of disabled environments, focused on the care problem at the time, which was not solved... not even taken up by the PiS government. I'm not making a plea out of it because it wasn't solved in the previous term. I'm talking about the Constitutional Court ruling. This problem has not been taken into account either in the previous budget or in the new budget. The continuation would be to take advantage of it. Mr. Duda is not here who led one of the teams. What was worked out at the time. [[Yes, it is.]] Mr. Agent Duda... But he can't even hear because he's turning back to me. [[I'm so sorry.]] You were driving, Mr. Senator, one of the teams that touched... Three, four people talked about it, from different backgrounds. I'm sure Senator Augustine, Senator Majer, and now I, the third, will join... The problem is the language describing disability. This round table or table actually revealed a trend. It also refers to the continuation, continuation of what the world has already achieved, i.e. the International Classification of Functionality, Disability and Health. Senator Majer talked about the village, described, according to the truth, the issues related to disability from the perspective of village residents. Senator Duda, as former Deputy Minister and Agent, was most interested in other types of disability issues, namely the treatment of disability, civilization conditions and employment. And yet there are also such disabled people, e.g. young people who are most interested in science. Others, mostly those who can't work at all or learn or move, they are most interested, especially in the parents of such persons, in medical matters. They want to get better, not just function in society, which is the earlier stage... And this International Classification of Functionality, Health and Disability has created such a common language, but not to make people boast that they use another language, just so that all institutions dealing with problems or facing disability In fact, the whole society and all institutions in the world and in Poland were able to speak the same language. After all, when we talk about employment and help. People who want to take a job... No other kind of help requires e.g. a person living in a rural area whose wheelchair is needed not as much as a car, because the rural roads do not allow the wheelchair to move. Conversely, in the city, maybe just a wheelchair would be enough to get to the workplace. This code system, I would say, distributed by computers, in a very easy, readable and precise way allows you to customize, among others. the kind of help you're talking about here, in the Senate, mostly... As we say, "help," we mean money and material resources, although the law obviously allows us to adapt the aid to the real needs of a disabled person. The round table mentioned here raised this issue, but unfortunately, with the end of the term of office, this achievement of people from different backgrounds Not political, because there were no political goals here. He died, so to speak. And I urge the PiS government to take advantage of this effort, also financial, from this work, not only intellectual, which has been put in, and social energy, because these people have come from far away to enter into these new formulas. And there were representatives of the world of science, and they thought it necessary to create... to start work on the ICF, because in every such debate there are actually regularly raised issues that some environment does not have a job, because, as the senator said, there is no proper education. But not everyone can be educated, nor can they be taught blindly. Right? The WAZs we talked about here are a beautiful institution, which is a good start, but they are stuck at such a point that they have become such a storage space for people with disabilities. They don't have such dynamics that more environments can be... Therefore, once again, I call on the PiS not to turn its back not only to the opposition, but, above all, to a society where there is a lot of civil potential in the environments of people with disabilities, because they see this supporting role in life and are very successful... And discussions like, we're eight months old, and you were eight years old... Well, that's, I think, a missed argument. It always matters, I will speak the language of engineers and technicians, the future, because it will last forever.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u150	I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Mammoth has made his speech in the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the fifth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on support of family and foster care, the Law on social assistance and the Act amending the Act on local government and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print 256 and the Commission's reports In prints No 256 A and 256 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Antoni Szymański, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u151	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy a report on the meeting which took place on 2 August 2016 on the Act amending the Act on Family Support and Replacement Care, the Act on Social Assistance and the Act amending the Act on Municipal Government and some other laws. This is print number 256. The Act was adopted by the Sejm on 22 July 2016. It constituted a parliamentary submission; Parliamentary printing No 679. Work on the bill was carried out by the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, including the Subcommittee on Family Affairs. The Commission has amended the draft law. The proposed changes to the rules on the functioning of day support facilities and the draft law in legislative terms have been discontinued in the draft. The rapporteur did not attend the meeting of the Senate Committee on Family, Labour and Social Policy. The law adopted by the Sejm aims, first, to change the way in which the organisation of joint economic and administrative service and organizational care facilities is organised, second, to make changes in the merger of different organisational units of local government. According to the justification for the bill and the explanations present at the meeting of representatives of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, including Minister Bartosz Marczuk, this is often dictated by the occurrence of negative phenomena threatening the well-being of minors in nursing institutions. The Act introduces the principle that, in any case, provision of joint service to day-care institutions or nursing establishments shall be managed by the head of the body which provides this service by means of the daily educator appointed at the various facilities. The provision on the possibility of combining forms of institutional care with social assistance organizational units by the county or local government will not apply to care institutions of the family type. The Act bans the location of care facilities on one ground property and in one building with social assistance agencies, educational system organisational units, support centres for victims of violence in the family, medicinal entities and judicial agencies or a sobering chamber. It also limits the possibility of housing social assistance units in one building with a facility providing 24-hour care for disabled persons, chronically ill or elderly persons and organisational units of other systems. The Act sets out the possibility of combining certain organisational units of social assistance. Thus, at the level of the municipality, the social assistance centre can be combined with the support centre, but excluding the support centre for people with mental disorders, as well as the social assistance centre for the elderly with the support centre for the elderly. The county will be able to connect the district family support centre with the crisis intervention centre. The Act also amends the transitional provisions so that administrative centres for day-support and institutional replacement services operating before 1 January 2016, i.e. before the date of entry into force of the Act amending the Local Government Act and certain other laws, can continue to operate on the basis of the provisions in force prior to that date, and not only for a period of 12 months, as is apparent from that Act. It extends the period for the adjustment of family support and foster care units and social assistance units to 31 December 2019. The Legislative Office stated that the Act did not raise any substantive legislative objections, but it submitted a proposal for an amendment resulting from the legislative technique used. This amendment received the approval of the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy, was taken over by the senator and then voted positively by the senators. Two more amendments were tabled during the committee meeting, which eliminate the inconsistencies concerning the connection of care facilities with the 24-hour social assistance units, and add specialist support centres to this list for victims of domestic violence, in line with the systematics adopted in the law on anti-violence in the family. The discussion at the committee meeting focused on the validity of the ban on the organisation of care facilities on 1 plot and in 1 building with the various institutions listed in the Act. These amendments have been welcomed by the Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy. In the vote they received approval from most senators. Five senators voted in favour of the bill and one senator abstained. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u152	Thank you very much. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u153	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Since my previous speaker discussed the content of the amendment of the law quite thoroughly, I, as rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, will try to make this brief. It is a law prepared on the basis of a parliamentary project, it was proceded in the committee of the local government. The revision of the law aims to eliminate adverse solutions to the functioning of family support units, foster care systems and social assistance. The amendment of the law prohibits the placement of care facilities, as my previous speaker said, on 1 real estate and in 1 building with, among others, sobering rooms, social assistance centres, law enforcement agencies, youth education centres and support centres for victims of violence in the family, hospices, care and medicine facilities. The main purpose of the bill presented by Minister Marczuk is to fear that there will be negative developments threatening the nature of care and thus endangering the safety of children there and the functioning of social assistance organisations. As far as the catalogue of these bans is concerned, it is in 1 of the articles, as I recall, in the article. Article 106 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 3a. This is a directory indicating 11 types of units that cannot be combined. The Act also departs from providing support to the family and the foster care system for joint administrative and financial and organisational services. As far as the committee meeting is concerned, it was attended by representatives of voivodships. They were representatives of the Silesian voivodship and Western Pomeranian voivodship, if I remember correctly, which presented the common position of the Convention of the Marshals of the Voivodships, containing a proposal to amend the law. This amendment was supported by such an argument that if the law was adopted in this form, for example. in the Silesian Voivodeship there will be a need to eliminate or close, if I am not mistaken, 3 institutions of this type, because they are located in 1 building. The amendment has been taken over, it will be presented as a minority proposal. I would add that Minister Marczuk asked the committee not to accept the amendment at this committee meeting at this stage of the procedure for the bill. He declared his openness to the discussion on this amendment at a later stage, but before discussing the Minister, the Ministry would like to analyse how this amendment could have an impact on the content of the bill. As regards the committee meeting itself, the Legislative Bureau also proposed an amendment to the Rule. Point 4 of the legislative amendment. As far as the Ministry's opinions are concerned, the Ministry has given its consent. This amendment was adopted unanimously at the committee meeting. Previously discussed by me, the amendment concerning the revision of the article. 1 in point 5, in Article. Paragraph 113. One, and it was the mouth. 3a points 1 and 8... According to this amendment, this would have to be changed to "ust." 3a points 2 and 8. Here's what I'm gonna say... This is a minority proposal, the committee has not approved this amendment at this stage. In view of this report, I ask the High House to adopt a law with an amendment proposed by the Legislative Office, which has been accepted by all committee members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u154	Thank you very much. I am now asking the minority rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Piotr Flork, to present a proposal for a minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u155	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The senator has done me a little bit, but I will add something about this amendment. A brief genesis of the amendment. Well, in the Law on Family Support and foster care, we have an article. Article 106 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. One who says there's only one nursing home in the building. And we have lips. 3 saying that the voivode may allow the operation of more than one care and education facility for up to 14 children in one multi-family building. And now the mouth. 3 is about change, amendment. In this mouth. 3 are listed as care and care establishments which cannot be located on a single property. There it is referred to as a single real estate, I will later explain what is going on here. Because I understand that this could be about one building, but we're talking about real estate. And there are 11 items listed. The whole problem is that the law that speaks of the voivodship's agreement concerns care and education institutions, does not apply to regional care and therapy institutions. A. Paragraph 113. 1 just says that to regional care and therapy facilities indicated regulations And here they are listed, among others. there is this amendment, paragraph. 3a points 1 and 8 shall apply mutatis mutandis. The amendment concerns that it should not be from point 1 to point 8, but from point 2 to point 8, precisely that there should be no collision in the case of regional care and therapy facilities, because their agreement does not apply to the voivodeship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u156	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. The draft law was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Welcome to Minister Bartosz Marczuk. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u157	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Of course, after the senators of the rapporteur have told us what the bill is, we are actually clear. I would just like to add that the law is primarily aimed at speeding up the process of deinstitutionalising child care, foster care, because this is also a very important objective of this law. What we mean is that we do not apply the practice sometimes appropriate by the counties, which is to meet the requirements of the law, i.e. that by 2020 only 14 children are staying in one child's home... The point is that there should not be such artificial sharing of large institutional institutions just and only to formally fulfil the conditions of the proposal. And that's why these records about not allowing two children's homes to function on one property or in one building. Of course, I would also like to draw attention to the fact that, both at the stage of the Parliament's work, when we received or when Members received comments, there were some quite important changes in this project, so we listened to what the local authorities said to us. Among other things, we have introduced a record that these facilities can connect in situations where they are not run 24 hours a day; that is, they can connect with day-to-day ones. Speaking of what happened yesterday both at the family committee meeting and later at the local council meeting, as Senator Florek said, I would say: yes, indeed, the representatives of the local government have drawn our attention to the question of whether, on the condition that the voivode gives its consent, it would be possible to merge in one building and in the property of a regional care and therapy and intervention centre. 'Cause that's really what local government representatives were talking about. We, as the Senator rapporteur said, have analysed this and are in favour of applying this kind of solution. We also agree to consistently Because at the moment it is possible to connect 2 children's homes in one building with the consent of the voivodeship to extend such solutions also for one property. And two of these amendments, as far as we know, are to be reported by Senator Major. We kind of want them to be... Or rather, we would like these amendments to be adopted in order to actually make this process more flexible. And at this point, this minority amendment that Senator Florek was talking about... Well, they're kind of consuming this amendment, that's the solution. We simply want to manage this process flexibly. Thank you very much. Am I staying here?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u158	Thank you very much. Yes, I ask you to remain, because at present the senators can report from a place of no more than a minute of inquiry to the Minister related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Szymanski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u159	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We introduce in this bill what you said in the last sentences, which is the possibility to merge, but with the consent of the voivode. Are you predicting, after the bill has been passed, any action towards the voivodships that will be allergic to the fact that this is about exceptional possibilities? So that there is no such situation that in one building with one entrance suddenly is created several institutions, which may be to the detriment of the care and education institution. So, in short, will this somehow be monitored by the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u160	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u161	Thank you very much for that question. Yes, indeed, we are predicting that this type of writing will be sent to all voivods, in which we will be allergic to voivodships, that such decisions, i.e. withdrawal from the general rule, i.e. to speed up the process of deinstitutionalisation, plus that children should not be put at risk. 'Cause that's the intention of this bill... These kids are often through some kind of transition anyway, so they don't have to be exposed to stress. We predict that if we give them such a delegation, they will make such decisions very carefully. We predict that if the Sejm deals with this law in September, we will send such a letter in September, and at the beginning of next year we will also ask the voivods to report how many such approvals they have issued, and we will examine whether they are issued in accordance with the spirit of the law.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u162	Thank you very much. Senator Augustine, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u163	Minister, we were adding an article in our previous term of office. 112a to enable the counties to combine several e.g. social assistance homes in a single organisational unit. That's what I'm talking about. It would be at their request. In order to justify management, when it could be shared, which I must admit, as I have observed, is the norm in several European countries. Meanwhile, you are proposing to amend this article. At least that's how I read his new sound. And now that's not gonna be possible. Is this really the way to read it? [[You're welcome...]] [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Bartosz Marczuk: But to clarify... Is this about these organizational service units? Because it's intent and...]] Minister, so far it has been so that the county could create an organizational social assistance unit through a combination of organisational units operating in its territory. And now the county can connect the PCPR to a crisis intervention facility and maybe... And that's actually everything, because the rest of the records are already on other cases, i.e. persons who direct the PCPR together with the crisis intervention centre. And that record's gone. So ... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Bartosz Marczuk: I mean no...]] ...there's my concern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u164	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u165	The intention of the Act is to restore the facts that were in place by the end of 2015. In your previous term of office, you decided that these organisational units, which serve several entities, were to disappear by the end of 2016, and one could not manage several institutions. We, because we had a lot of votes from local governments that it was irrational, in this bill This is the second main reason why Members of this Law have submitted this Act, and we are restoring this state which existed until 2015, which is even after 1 January 2017, when this possibility was to disappear, there will be the possibility that the service of the organizational unit supporting the family and the foster care system... will be able to do so by one body for several institutions. So it's kind of like that in 2016, the counties had to prepare for it to disappear. The counties reported to us that it was irrational, we recognized these rations and at this point we say that several units can operate one service unit.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u166	Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u167	Mr. Marshal! Minister... Are you the Minister? Oh, there it is. Director! Dear Senators! I honestly admit that I don't quite believe in these local governments' conclusions, because I remember well the time when local governments And this is in line with the desire of local governments, they wanted freedom in terms of organisational forms of management of the institutions they run, in line with the principle of economics and rationality. If all over Europe Where I was, and I visited many countries on a business trip This is possible within municipalities, within local authorities and they decide what form of organization they want to choose, it seems to me that we go far beyond the principle of subsidiarity, by finger, showing what can be combined with what and when. I'd even agree to it in some way if I had a good understanding of my intentions. In some part of... When it is said not to connect the sobering chamber with the care and care facility, it is understandable that I will always sign under it. But if this is about the social services organizational unit, and this, as far as I know, is a social services house... Why couldn't he be in the same building? Ladies and gentlemen, the social services house, which I am still the director of, on parliamentary leave for 11 years, has the opportunity to take over another part of the building with a separate entrance from the other side, from another street and intends to create... I am sorry because it is not about expanding the social services house, but it is about setting up another facility to help people who, according to the laws, the county is obliged to take care of. We're gonna be in the way of changing those rules. I brought this up at the committee meeting. I understand that there may be some reservations, if it goes not so much for the sobering room, as for example. I don't know. There are ex-prisoners on rehabilitation. Although I must tell you from my own experience, it was difficult to meet volunteers as involved as those who came to me from the penitentiary. Do you realize what it is for a child abandoned by his parents to find in a house of social assistance a sewn-up grandmother, a sewn-up grandpa, who is waiting for this child like no one, who is interested in everything and has time? It seems to me that this law, although its individual records are justified, goes far too far. Why would the co-existence of a work establishment, where there are disabled workers, with other institutions disturb anyone, be a bad example? What? The unique bravery of these people? This is really moments, in particular substantively undefensible records, which is why I could not stand in favour of this submission in its entirety, although at some points of course yes. I believe that this is a law that interferes too far with the powers of local governments. Even if we wanted to do this interference, it would require a deeper thought, rather than throwing in various centers that, in my opinion, could perfectly coexist with each other, into one bag in which one and the other cannot function. And one more thing we talked about at the committee meeting. It's not just the same buildings. Sometimes it's one land property you can't separate, and even if you could... But why artificially separate it? Just to make amends to a rule that goes way too far? In many cases I do not see such justification, such a need. Let's not be afraid of each other, let's not be ashamed of each other. Trying to counteract the stigmatization of people in centres, showing that they are not allowed, with them not allowed, with others not allowed, we are stigmatizing them, and this is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u168	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Flork.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u169	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! So far, it's an art. Article 106 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 2 said there could only be one nursing home in the building. Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 3 says the voivode may allow the facility... I'm not gonna quote that anymore. There would be no need for an amendment that I had tabled if my lips had not been added. 3a in this new sound. Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 3a says that the care and care facility cannot be located on one ground property or in one building with sobering rooms or 24-hour care... I'll read that list in a minute. I remind you of the beginning of this provision: it cannot be located on one land property or in one building. That's the whole problem. Me because of my profession. I'm a wealth expert, an educated surveyor. I can tell you what kind of real estate we have. We have built-in and unbuilt land properties, building properties, residential properties. The building, the property of the building and the perpetual use... We're dealing with real estate here. I remind you, it can't be on one land property. Ladies and gentlemen, there may be 1 building on the property, but there may be 3 buildings, 4 buildings, 5 or 6. A lot of buildings could be there. It can't fit on one land property... I understand that it cannot be placed in one building, as is mentioned in the further part of this sentence, because then this main goal is achieved, i.e. that there should be no direct contact, but if there is one building located in this place on the land property, and the other 500 m away This may be the case depending on the size of the property It doesn't make any sense... And the record is clear: it can't be located on one land property. It's a question of the definition of real estate, the eternal book, etc. Therefore, I believe that this is not the happiest phrase. We still have a whole list of units. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that mouth. 3a is not necessary at all. Until now, it's been somehow... Here we have only this article. The governor could still change it, and so far the voivode has supervised it, had its powers. Some confusion arose in the case of regional care facilities, as we talked about here. If that recipe hadn't happened at all, I don't think anything would have happened. The governor's supervision, and so it will be. I can tell you from my own experience what it looks like. This change, in my opinion, doesn't bring anything on purpose, and it just makes it a little more difficult. If we take this literally... if we move an institution, a unit, a special facility, someone will have to bear the cost of this transfer. We're calling again here, I don't know, local governments that probably have to bear these costs. This list... At the committee meeting, I set an example. You said it was a drastic example, but I don't think it is. The fact that these facilities cannot be combined with support centres for victims of domestic violence. I don't really see the need to discharge these units. If, I don't know, a mother and child are victims of violence and are in such a facility... the argument at the committee meeting was that the perpetrator of this violence could come to this facility, maybe make some noise there, etc. One of our fellow senators was that these perpetrators can't get close to the victims, they're supposed to be away from them at a certain distance. That's how most of the time he's in judgment. And besides, there's police, there's other services... We cannot regulate everything so precisely in the regulations. The 11 items that are listed here... Well, it could be carefully analysed whether to leave a few, I don't know, 2, 3, 4 And this list will make the local authorities have to address this, which will complicate many, many things here. I think there is one goal: that the children who are in these places should adapt to the normal life that they will one day go to. So I don't know if such isolation, such total isolation from all problems is good. I don't think so. On the contrary, we should not be afraid of these problems. Of course, some of the objects listed here, I don't know, hospice, sobering rooms... Well, it's obvious and logical that this kind of thing... but in this case, it could have been a voivode in custody. So, as to this change, I think that it is not necessary at all. And the other part, which is shared service, of course... Always go in this direction to reduce business costs. And I think this part of the bill is very good. On the other hand, this part, after the entry into force of the Act, will raise a lot of controversy in my opinion. And I'm sure we'll hear about it if the bill passes in this form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u170	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Majer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u171	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! Dear guests! The family is the place where the child feels best, where he gets upbringing, habits and socializes. And we all agree in this room that we would like all children to be in families. Unfortunately, reality is what it is. Reality means that kids don't grow up in families. Dear State, in 2010 the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy conducted a study on a group of over 22 000 children residing in foster families and nursing institutions. And it rained there, among other things. The question is why these kids aren't in families. Ladies and gentlemen, they are not in families because we are dealing with the helplessness of natural parents and the occurrence of caring problems, said 32%. 26% The children, Dear State, were in foster care and care centres because of poverty. Then there was violence, the occurrence of diseases, inappropriate local conditions and residence abroad, i.e. Euro-Earth. And these are, Dear State, situations where children were taken from those places where they were raised, taken to create better conditions for their lives to secure them. And now, dear country, when we talk about child policy, about what standards we build with regard to care, it seems natural. And I think all of you, while you're here, will agree. We would like children to be in conditions as close to family conditions as possible. Well, we're not gonna put everyone in foster care, there's no way, at least for now. So we build care and education facilities for up to 14 children, which will be modelled on similar ones. And, ladies and gentlemen, where would you like to place these facilities? In enclaves? In places where there are larger social services teams? This isn't a bad thing, really. I myself have worked in the social services system for many years. But, ladies and gentlemen, the children referred to here are sufficiently marked and stigmatized by the fact that they are not raised in their own family. And there is no need, my dear fellow Members, to place them in such a place. Also attach a red board with white letters Ladies and gentlemen, with all due respect, it hasn't been done in years. If care and care facilities are established, they shall be located under natural conditions. In the same way, Dear Sirs, there would be few people who would dare to live with their family in a work apartment in a social assistance home, in a socialization institution or in another such unit. Because, ladies and gentlemen, this creates an impression of unnatural conditions. I understand and fully respect the opinions that were expressed at the committee meeting: that the kids should come to the institutions, to the social services house, that they should meet. Yes, of course, they should integrate. But they're not necessarily supposed to live there. Dear people, do you know how small towns talk about these centres? Unfortunately, all the time... I used to look for a place like this. It was a social services home for people with mental disorders. And I asked someone how to get there. Where? Are you trying to get to those fools? Stupid? A little further, then. Yes, my dears, it looks like this is our reality. And you'd like to have a nursing home there? I believe that this solution which the Ministry has presented, although of course it is not without minor shortcomings, is much better. Ladies and gentlemen, what we are debating is also due to what the local governments have called for. Well, the counties were writing, answering... In my senators' statements, I also asked the Ministry to include the next amendment in order not to remove the possibility of joint financial and legal service. And it's been done, my dear fellows. It is an enumerative description of those facilities which cannot be combined in one building or on one property with care and education institutions, has, Dear State, largely preventive character. But that is our role, because it is the role of the state to indicate certain legal standards, i.e. what local governments have, Dear State, to implement. And indeed, as Senator Florek said here... I fully support that. This is also the case for my amendment, because the point is to allow the operation within a single property more than one care and care facility to 14 children. The specifics and tasks of these institutions and the needs of the local environment must be taken into account, because our reality is not perfect, Dear Sire. There are situations that in the court complex one facility is located in the courthouse, and the other is somewhere in the office, and no conservator will agree to their separation, their separation. Anyway, why would we do that? It's better to make an amendment that will give the voivode - As the one who controls it. The possibility of supervision... which will allow this possibility. So that's what I'm making. Dear Member States, we will also be consistent with what appeared at the meeting of the local government committee in relation to regional care and education institutions there is also a change. And the third amendment I make is the result of these earlier changes in numbering. The point is to standardize it. Dear country, one issue is part of this law on family support and foster care, but there are still changes, also expected... It is not as my venerable previous speaker said, that the local governments do not want these changes and that they prefer to be given freedom and freedom. Dear Member States, it has been the case that local authorities could not connect the social assistance centre with the support centre, because the legislator did not provide for this. And there was an artificial situation. There was also a support centre, which was a separate unit, and in one corridor in two rooms there were two managers. In the meantime, this could be one thing... And this bill, this novel of the Social Assistance Act, goes against it, it simply regulates the situation that was artificially created. Because the separation of support centres from social assistance centres has been very artificial in many cases, especially in these small units. I don't see any changes, ladies and gentlemen, about which... one of my previous speakers spoke about the fact that a welfare home cannot be connected to anything else. If the unit is a single name... If the help house wants to expand, it's possible. The legislator created it for him, and we're not changing it at all. In this law is spoken Only that if the welfare home for the sick somatically, chronically, for the elderly, wants to create a daily form of support for their residents, which would be very valuable Germany This can be done because this regulation creates this possibility. Earlier, my dear fellow Members, it was much more difficult. So that I am of the opinion that this regulation, which the Ministry has put forward, on the one hand meets what local governments want, and on the other hand very strongly shows the direction of our social policy, which should be in the broad sense of environmental protection, i.e. as close as possible to nature. And these nursing and care facilities should be placed in such places that they do not create reasons for stigmatizing the children living there. Thank you so much and I'm making amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u172	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Komarnicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u173	Dear Marshal, Dear Senators! I would like to say briefly: my reservations are primarily about the procedure of proceding this change, but also about its validity. It is supposed to be a parliamentary project, and it really is a government project introduced by the parliamentary mode. As far as I know, none of the representatives of local corporations present at the meetings of both the subcommittee and the Sejm committees asked for a quick procedure, moreover, even encouraged the right to be created in the right way. The course of the procedure and a number of records arouses and gives rise to controversy, and requires us to abstain today from voting on this law. Plus, it's hard for me. really understand why you continue to insist and want to separate the care of children, young people and the elderly. Local government, local government, county council perform all tasks related to this law. Let's really leave them to it so far. The possibility to merge facilities in a way that, thanks to the supervision of the voivodship, has no right to be bad. If supervision of the voivodship is performed well, then there is no need. As vice-president of the Sejm, I was very close to these matters. I have spoken to many self-governments and I would like to say straight today: I am signing an outrage to what Senator Piotr Florek said before me, reminding a long-term Wielkopolska voivode who justified it properly, I am signing an outrage. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u174	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Mammoth has made his speech in the minutes. I would like to inform you that you have tabled proposals of a legislative nature in writing, Senator Majer. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? Minister? No. Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item six of the agenda: information about the activities of the Supreme Court in 2015. The text of the information is provided in print No 168. The Senate Marshal sent the information received to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. The Commission took note of the information at its meeting on 22 June. And she informed the Senate marshal about it. I would like to welcome to the Senate the first Supreme Court President, Mrs Margaret Gersdorf. Welcome. I ask the President to take the floor and present the information. Welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u175	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Dear Ladies and Gentlemen, Senators, I would like to present a report on the activities of the Supreme Court in 2015. The activities of the Supreme Court are limited by the provisions of the Supreme Court Act and the Constitution. The Supreme Court is the judicial authority appointed to exercise justice by ensuring, in the context of supervision, the legality and uniformity of the case law of universal and military courts. But this exercise of justice and supervision only concerns matters of Judaism, not administrative issues, and therefore the Supreme Court and the first President of the Supreme Court are not responsible for the activities of universal courts in the field of extra-dudication. I stress this at the moment because during the session in the Sejm there were accusations that I did not have control over the general administration of the judiciary. Right away, in advance, I say I can control this if you grant me this authority. So we recognize cassation complaints, cassations, remedies, resolutions determining legal issues, and beyond what is very important, electoral protests, the validity of elections to the Sejm and Senate, the election of the President, the validity of the national referendum, the constitutional referendum, we also accept complaints against decisions of election committees on the adoption or not of financial statements, which is practically very important. In addition, the Supreme Court gives its opinion on the laws and other normative acts on the basis of which the courts adjudicate and function, and other laws in so far as it considers it necessary, on purpose, in connection with the judicial system. Therefore, we do not give an opinion on all legal acts, considering that only those that concern the justice system or some constitutional values that need to be taken into account in the act are important to us. Each of these activities of the Supreme Court poses different challenges to the Supreme Court and represents a separate perspective of evaluation and its activities. Of course, the primary task of the Supreme Court is the judicial function. In this context, there was a slight increase in the number of cases in 2015 But I would like to point out that this was not a big increase. The largest number of cassation complaints were brought to the Civil Chamber, then to the Chamber of Work, then to the Criminal Chamber. Only 12 were brought into the military because there's a limited scope of action here. A total of 173 legal issues were raised, 1 thousand 507 complaints. Other cases include appeals against decisions of the Military District Courts, actions for the annulment of a final decision, competition and consumer cases, actions for the length of proceedings, actions for the reopening of proceedings, requests for referral to another court, appeals for a pardon and, which is likely to be important for the senators, disciplinary matters, including judges. In the latter group of disciplinary matters concerning disciplinary liability of judges, the Supreme Court ruled 82 cases. In 30 cases, the decisions of the previous instance were not upheld, 17 were repealed and retrialed, 9 cases were changed, 1 was repealed and surrendered, 3 were repealed and the penalty was changed. I will also tell you what was interesting in the Seym: the judge was removed from office in the first case. As for lawyers, lawyers, notaries, prosecutors, it was only 76 cases. So the most important thing was the judge's case as second instance. In total, the Supreme Court recognized 10,000 502 cases. In accordance with the 2015 Presidential Regulation on determining the number of judges in the Supreme Court and the number of governors, the number of judges in the Supreme Court has been defined as 93 persons. The cast at 31 December was 84 people. On a periodic basis, the Supreme Court has benefited from the assistance of 9 judges sent by the Minister of Justice at the request of the first President of the Supreme Court. The most in the Criminal Chamber, the least in the Civil Chamber and social security. In the penal chamber, the judges of the military chamber also ruled in rotation, because there is quite a small bet. In the Supreme Court there are judges of common courts, appointed to the Supreme Court by common courts, that is, the majority, 60 persons. There are only 8 military judges in this year's term of office. The scientific community is represented 14 people And a lawyer, by 1 person. So the common judges are 60 at the moment. When I mention the number of judges, I would like to explain why this number of 93 judges has not been filled, even though there are some arrears in the Supreme Court. Filling this number is not that simple and easy, and it is not very fast. It's a certain procedure, quite long-term, ending with Mr. President, who's calling these judges, and going, so to speak, through the National Court Register. So it takes a long time. And if we want to accept common court judges to the Supreme Court, then we also need to see their merits, but in the Supreme Court And this is a different judgment than in common courts, because it is a ruling more on legal matters than on cassians. So we're gonna have to check them out in the process of ruling by delegation. This delegation is at the request of the first President, and the Minister of Justice is seconded. I've been having some trouble with this lately. As for the judicial activities of individual chambers... Maybe I'll get back to this: I'm in some trouble because the Minister doesn't delegate despite my conclusions, which hasn't happened so far. Therefore, it may happen that we will not have candidates verified to the Supreme Court, because we are not ruling with those judges with whom we should first agree to see what it looks like. Although we have selected people very good in the case law of the common courts through these cassation rulings. Now the individual chambers. These are very diverse issues, all of which have been described quite thoroughly in our reports. I would like to stress that the complexity of the law and the interdisciplinary nature of the problems make this ruling not a simple ruling and increasingly the Supreme Court refers to European international law, because it must do so, and the case law of the European Court of Human Rights or of the Court of Justice of the European Union. The largest Chamber, the Civil Chamber, is, of course, ruling to the greatest extent, and the subject matter is very extensive, just as the entire civil law is extensive. Competition is only in the work room, it's a little civilistic, and everything else is in the Civil House, from commercial law to copyright. This is a complex system and an interdisciplinary nature of this case law. Here I would like to recall, just as an example of interdisciplinaryness, which occurs and creates difficulties, all those judgments which concern Warsaw real estate. Because here, for example, the limitation of claims is settled, but also on the basis of the provisions of K.P.A., which no longer applies, art. 160 c.p.a. Resolution III of the CZP 78/14 removed doubts regarding the finality of the supervisory decision, because later this statute of limitations is valid for this supervisory decision and the beginning of the limitation period is related to K.p.a. Similar links with administrative law are shown by other resolutions made in enlarged warehouses, concerning liability for damages, as well as concerning the decree on ownership and use of land in the capital city of Warsaw, because there is also a supervisory decision and we will count on it and the moment of limitation, and damage. In the case law of the Civilian Chamber of the Supreme Court, the balance of constitutional values resulting from the Article is constantly supported for legal trading. 2 and Article 2 20 constitutions, i.e. the social market economy and social justice. These aspects concern in particular Resolution III of the CZP 73/15 relating to shelves charges, i.e. other than the margin of benefits for the acceptance of goods for sale. The need to balance social and individual interests has been apparent for a number of years in the case law on serviceability. Last year, I was talking about the fact that the lack of inter-temporal regulations caused... the Supreme Court faced the need to fill the legal gap by taking an ad casum of interpretation of the law. This, of course, does not meet with our approval, but we take on our own shoulders this caselaw and bring to some broad water institutions of service transmission. The law of trial is extremely important and the most judgments of the Civil Chamber are within civil procedural law. It goes on, among other things. about statements concerning the jurisdiction of the courts and local courts; this is a clarification and exclusion of certain irregularities. 7 cassation cases identified in 2015 concerned the compensation of the insurer to insured persons for the activities of insurance agents. That means art. The 11th Act on Insurance Pricing seems to be a little out of line, since there are so many cases that go up to the Supreme Court. The Civil Chamber has asked questions for a preliminary ruling to the European institutions twice. The point is to draw your attention to this, because that means that this compatibility of national law with European Union law is not always sufficiently examined in Parliament. In the case law of the Criminal Chamber, matters of substantive and procedural law were dominated. Other issues were related to EU law. As regards the procedure, in case I KZP 21/14, this is a resolution of the full composition of the Criminal Chamber, which is why I am talking about it. It has been accepted that in cassation proceedings it is permissible to set aside the contested decision only in the part in which it does not contain a decision on the criminal measure. A particularly important issue from the point of view of the defendant's procedural interests was the resolution I KZP 4/15, which stated that the provision of the article. 377 k.p.k. is a stand-alone basis for adjourned hearing still in a situation where the defendant, who has not yet made an explanation to the court, has been informed that he will be heard and of the earlier date of the hearing, has been notified of the new date of the hearing in any lawful manner. The resolution is important from among procedural threads Penalty Chambers for polygraphs, that is, polygraphs. The Supreme Court's decision on slot games was also important. The proceedings were suspended here in 2015, because the Court of Justice is issuing judgments in this case and it is necessary to wait for them. Many of the resolutions of the Supreme Court Criminal Chamber concern specific provisions of the Criminal Code. With such an interesting judgment... Such an interesting judgment is the case I KZP 5/15, in which it was found that the subject of the offence referred to in Article. 299 of the Labour Code may be held in a bank account with cash up to an amount equal to the value of the property benefit. In case I KZP 7/15, it was found that the deliberate deprivation of liberty of another person under special conditions may be regarded as a crime against humanity, the criminality of which is not subject to statute, even if it does not comply with the marks of a prohibited act referred to in Article. 118a §2 para. 2 k.p.k. There have been 2 resolutions regarding the amendment of k.p.k., but this case is already overtaken, because we already have another k.p.k., so they should not be taken into account in practice, they will not be taken into account. The judgment concerning the article is also important. 302 §1 k.k., in the insolvency case. The lack of satisfaction of even one creditor is already sufficient to attribute the mark of that crime. The Supreme Court also held that the final order of the court to maintain the order of the prosecutor to terminate the in-rem investigation was a judgment terminating the proceedings, i.e. it may be subject to an emergency cassation. I will now go to the Chamber of Labour, Social Security and Public Affairs. Most of the cases concerned social security. Here the value of the subject matter of appeal is not very strongly defined. The value of the challenge in general is low in labour and insurance matters, which is why there is a great deal of it. This, of course, is a matter of Parliament, whether it will increase the value of the challenge or not. A constant request from the Supreme Court is a certain increase in the value of the subject matter of appeal, since minimum and average wages are being increased, but this, of course, belongs to Parliament. The consequence of non-raise is the increasing influx of cases that are suitable for resolution by means of a cassation complaint. As far as the Chamber of Labour is concerned, first of all it is important to draw attention to the resolution of the enlarged Supreme Court, which is very important for working members of the board of directors of capital companies. It stated that a member of the board of directors of a public limited liability company is entitled to social insurance, but not only to a public limited liability company, which has concluded a contract with that company for the provision of management services in the context of its non-agricultural activities, is a contract for the provision of services, i.e. III PHP 2/15, not economic activity. The second issue that was important for the practice of applying insurance law in the reporting year 2015 also referred to the subject of social insurance and related to agricultural insurance. The Supreme Court took the view that there was no individual instruction by the pension authority on the obligations arising from the Act on Social Insurance for Individual Farmers, i.e. the obligation to submit within the time limit a certificate from the competent tax authority of the amount of tax on income from non-agricultural economic activities does not result in the repeal referred to in Article. Article 5a (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: The 6th provision of this Act, and this repeal, is the cessation of social security. So these people don't lose their social insurance. Only because they didn't notify the income because they weren't instructed. With regard to labour law issues, it is worth paying attention to a resolution which settled doubts about the reimbursement of costs to the General Court for commuting. The Supreme Court has expressed its view that a court judge who has permission to reside outside the court and to use a private passenger car to travel from his place of residence to the court is not entitled to reimbursement of travel expenses above the amount determined by the employer, which is the intention of the Ministry of Justice. It was also important to resolve the doubts of the court, which raised the question of whether an employer who employs at least 20 employees is subject to the exemption procedure contained in the Law on the so-called. Group redundancies or not. The Supreme Court considered that the case required clarification by the Court of Justice of the European Union What is a group exemption or a definitive... whether it is sufficient to give a change of name and therefore refer the case back to the general court to ask the appropriate question. The 2015 presidential, parliamentary, referendum and supplementary elections to the Senate have made the involvement of the Chamber of Labour, Social Insurance and Public Affairs very large in public affairs, and this has affected the emergence of greater arrears in this House in the resolution of cases, let's call it ordinary. This is a result of the fact that the electoral code and the referendum law set specific deadlines for the Supreme Court, and the Supreme Court cannot fail to comply with these deadlines, i.e. it must postpone all other cases, apologise for colloquialism, aside and rule only on the validity of elections and referendums, etc. So much for discussing the most important decisions of each Chamber, I believe. And now I'd like to stop for a minute over the organizational activities. It's the most important thing. In addition to the ruling, there is information about the case law of the Supreme Court, and these actions are reflected in the official collections of judgments issued. There's a paper on access to public information. Up-to-date and up-to-date online databases for judgments shall be provided. There are newsletters, there are still a series of publications with a fairly high intellectual level. The Supreme Court studies and analyses, scientific materials and studies of the Supreme Court's analysis. The thematic review of case law has been published once again, these are yearbooks, a collection of Supreme Court decisions is published annually, a Disciplinar Court. It is also important to have a disciplinary officer... excuse me, a press officer, namely daily monitoring of the Supreme Court's case-law, as well as monitoring the media and possibly correcting the ambiguities and omissions that appear in the media. As in previous years, numerous scientific conferences were initiated in the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court judges also took part in a national conference on the challengeability of judgments and the instance of court proceedings in the light of constitutional regulations in a new model of appeal, cassation and renewal proceedings. This conference was organized together with the Attorney General, but of course the effects of these considerations, well, they won't matter much anymore. There has been intense international cooperation, but in certain ways, so that it is not the main tasks of the Supreme Court, although such cooperation with courts is very informative. The first President of the Supreme Court was in Dublin, the conference discussed the links between the European Court of Human Rights and the Supreme Courts and the limitation of the admissibility of actions to the Supreme Courts, i.e. cassation proceedings, because they do not exist in every country at all, and there are problems with the flood of cassation courts in these cases if there are no intellectual restrictions in this regard. There have been scientific conferences in Vilnius, attended by employees and judges of the Supreme Court, also in Vienna... I won't bore you with all these numbers. I would like to stress that, in connection with the parliamentary elections in the Supreme Court, there has already been a second representation of the OSCE. These meetings dealt with issues relating to the procedure for determining the validity of elections to the Sejm and the Senate and to active and passive electoral rights. The OSCE mission also took note of the statistics, so that I thought it was very interesting for us and for them. We answered all their questions. I would like to present to you the conclusions of the Supreme Court. As regards the functioning of the Supreme Court during the reporting period, the conditions for this operation and legal, and factual They didn't change much compared to the previous year. There has been a slight impact of the cases, which has not so far affected the average waiting time for the substance of the case. In the Civil Chamber, the Labour Chamber and the Criminal Chamber it lasted 10 months, and in the Military Chamber it lasted 2 months. This is in line with European standards, so I think it is a very good result. There are also a lot of legal issues that require greater focus and more consideration than ordinary cases, cassations or cassation complaints. As regards legal questions addressed to the Supreme Court, it is a group of entities which is institutionally entitled to raise these questions, and these are always questions at a higher level than questions to other types of courts. Cassation complaints are about different issues. I think that about 30% of cassation complaints are accepted for further processing after the so-called. a court of law. I think that's more than in the past. The Supreme Court rulings are quite extensive. This is not criticised because it is very good comparative material for common court judges. Individual issues are discussed as if it were a scientific paper. And if it's legible to the web page, that's another matter. I personally prefer such shorter justifications. It's said all the time that the law needs improvement. The legislator reacts very quickly to various bad facts, which often makes the laws poorly prepared. Well, for example. c.p.c. has actually lost its readability through these constant changes. But in general, the activities of the Supreme Court and the results we have achieved, the level of case law and the number of cases under consideration I'd like to make a positive assessment of all of this. Prejudicing your attack that you could use more humility and less glory 'Cause that's the kind of attack I met in the Sejm. I'll just say that I'm also an employer, and I think that judges who work hard should be commended and other employees of the Supreme Court should be commended. And that's the kind of praise I'd like to give from this speaker, because the result of 10 months when it comes to settling a case is really very good. And I don't know if it can be repeated next year because there's not enough judges. This good and quite quick judgment is of course the merit of the judges, but also of all the staff who work in the Supreme Court, from assistants to employees of the Office of Studies and Analysis. Thank you very much, Marshal. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u176	Thank you very much, Madam President. Would any of you senators like to ask the president a question? Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. [[And me.]] Good. Please, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u177	First, a question for your marshal. I wanted to ask you a question. I don't see anybody here from the Ministry of Justice. Has the Minister of Justice been invited?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u178	Mr. Marshal, as far as I know, no one from the ministry has been invited... [[No one's been invited? Good.]] ...because there's just no procedure. There's only the president. [[Voice from the Chamber: This is the information of the Supreme Court.]] So that I ask you a question for the president.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u179	Then I'll ask the president. Madam President, you mentioned some problems with the delegation of judges to the Supreme Court, I believe. There is a principle of posting for three months, also so that the judges can prove themselves before being appointed to the Supreme Court. I would like to know how many such proposals, your proposals, have not been taken into account by the Minister of Justice. And what's the percentage when it comes to running judges. And if you can tell me why the Minister of Justice doesn't delegate or justify it somehow, he tells you why he doesn't want to delegate. That's the question I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u180	Thank you. Senator Piotr Zientarski. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u181	Madam President, as you have recalled, it is well known that the Supreme Court plays a unique role in the system of the democratic rule of law in general, because it not only cares about uniformity, but that, in general, it shapes... whether it affects the formation of relations between the judicial authority and the other authorities. I am interested in the following question. We've been hearing a lot about this lately. - What was the announcement? The future reform of the justice system. With the president, with the Supreme Court... Do you know anything about any work, opinions or cooperation on the preparation of this reform that we've been hearing so much about lately?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u182	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask you another question, Professor Sewerinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u183	This year's information from the first Supreme Court President consists of 2 volumes. The latter, which is an integral part of all the information, concerns very valuable proposals for proposed legislative changes. The President did not mention this second part in her speech. It seems to me that it is very valuable, especially in the perspective of legislative work in the Senate, to be able to take part in a legislative initiative. Would you like to point out at least one such urgent, important matter, which would require improvement of our legal status, on the basis of... We're studying these other issues, of course, but maybe... Not all of them are members of the Human Rights Committee and the rule of law. So that it might be worth pointing out, if I may ask, at least one such case that would require some urgent legislative intervention. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u184	Thank you, Senator. There you go, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u185	If you don't mind, I'm gonna go one at a time... [[You're welcome.]] The first question was the marshal's question. With regard to the procedure for the delegation of common court judges to the Supreme Court, such an usus has been in operation for years, since 1990, that the first President of the Supreme Court has asked only the judges of appeals, i.e. judges who already have some greater discernment in the law, are experienced judges, have passed their professional career levels. The law only states that, at the request of the first President, the Minister of Justice shall delegate... Currently, about half of the proposals were not accepted by the Minister of Justice. In fact, only four applications were accepted to the Criminal Chamber. I don't think another four or five of my applications have been accepted. There are no reasons, because the minister doesn't have to give reasons. This, of course, may be due to various issues and problems in this court, but we always ask the President of the Court of Appeal first whether it would be possible for one or another judge to come to the Supreme Court for three months, because it is the removal of one judge from this court, and always only then ask the Minister to delegate if there is agreement of the Court of Appeal. This, of course, is a problem for us... 'Cause it's not like this judge is gonna really help us with the ruling, but, of course, it's gonna help us how three months he's gonna rule. But this is a problem of being able to select the best judges of the general courts at the Supreme Court. We, like I said, have certain priorities. We see from the caselaw of the judges, at what level a particular judge is at and whether he could possibly rule in the Supreme Court, but we still need to check practically what it looks like. And that makes it impossible for us to do it practically. Well, unfortunately, it's written in the bill that he's posting a minister, not e.g. The first president, because then there wouldn't be that grade. But so it seems that right now, only in the Criminal Chamber do we have a pledge of two or three delegated judges, not to the other chambers. About Senator Zientarski's question... [[But I'm sorry...]] Yes... [[I asked how many cases there were.]] No, four, five. [[4. Good.]] Well, because we don't perform that much, and in total, maybe eight, and four, five didn't get... Yeah, half. As regards the question of Senator Ziientarski, I would like to say that at the beginning of this term of the Sejm there were such questions addressed to me by the Undersecretary of State, which I would change in the law on common courts, which I might have suggested to improve, etc. Well, I don't think I can give the minister a hint on how to improve his business, and it's still common courts. Of course, everything is not so perfect and can always be improved, but it is already a vision of the Minister, so I gave very few examples of these improvements, but it was about six months ago. On the other hand, when it comes to judicial reform, I have no news except what we all know about the National Court Register. As far as these demands for change are concerned, I would like to stress that everywhere I am very praised for this, and this is because of Senator Sewerinski, and it is necessary to give it back to him, because when I first came to the Senate, I was very afraid of everything, he ordered me to do so, and he was still banging on me that I was not fulfilling my obligations under the article. The 5th Supreme Court Act, and I'm not showing these gaps. So we've been moving fast ever since, showing these gaps. They were written in the other book. I didn't talk about it today because it's not information about the activities of the Supreme Court in 2015. I think that it is a permanent problem for people to set an annual fee for perpetual use in the event of different use of parcels constituting a single property. The result of the application of the rules in force shall be presented uniformly when the individual parcels of land belonging to one immovable property are intended to be used for different purposes, one for housing purposes and the other for economic purposes. It is not known whether the annual fee can be determined as the sum of the charges calculated at the appropriate rates or whether it must be calculated uniformly for the entire property. And that's something that affects people the most. Of course, there are a lot of minor cases like this, and in commercial law. The very important issue of procura And in copyright law, on the functioning of the Committee on Copyright, etc., but it's all in this thin notebook. I think I answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u186	There are still questions. [[First President of the Supreme Court of Margaret Gersdorf: Are there any more questions?]] Yeah, yeah. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u187	Senator Sławomir Rybicki. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u188	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Madam President, you mentioned the draft law on the National Judicial Council. We know she's still in government work. I would like to ask: was the Supreme Court consulted on this legislative proposal? I know that the Supreme Court is necessarily interested in various actions in this regard as well. What is the opinion of the President or the Supreme Court as to whether this law in this form would enter into legal trading? What effect will it have? And can it be unconstitutional?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u189	Thank you very much. You're still Senator Piotr Zientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u190	I've got three questions, and it's more like two. Madam President, the resolution of the General Assembly of Judges of the Supreme Court, the one known to us, lawyers, or at all to the public, the fact that the Supreme Court will respect the ruling of the Court, regardless of the publication of these judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal... Do you still believe that fear of legal duality is real? And that's the first question. The second question is related to the National Judicial Council. It is well known that the first President of the Supreme Court, which is you, is a permanent constitutional member of the National Judicial Council, which, by virtue of the Constitution, upholds the independence of the judiciary and the independence of the courts. From this point of view, as a member of this National Council of Courts, do you now see threats to judicial independence?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u191	Thank you. I'm gonna ask you one more question. Senator Zbigniew Silence. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u192	The president mentioned that 70% cassation complaints are inadmissible It's okay, it's okay. Understood? In turn, 30% is allowed to be recognized. How many of these 30% is taken into account?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u193	Thank you very much, and I would like your reply, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u194	I'll tell Senator Cichoni right away that I don't know how much of this 30%. is taken into account in accordance with the proposal, because most are repealed if... or remotely. 'Cause it's probably not... As far as the draft law on the KRS is concerned, I do not remember, but I think that this project has not yet been submitted to our opinion, because it is probably still at the stage of the government, so that I cannot respond to something that is not there. There were various media presentations of these projects and discussions... I, of course, would not want the National Judicial Council to lose its position as an authority that upholds the independence and independence of the judiciary. I wouldn't want the Supreme Court to have one representative either. At the moment, on two. I don't know why he has one representative, but that's what I heard. Let's see what it looks like. I didn't make that opinion... But the National Judicial Council has quite a strong constitution, which is why it is quite important to examine how the provisions of the Act will apply to the basic law. With regard to the resolution of the General Assembly of Judges of the Supreme Court, she, Senator, is from 2016, therefore I have not talked about her in the context of this reporting year, this is 2015. But this resolution said I've got it here because I'm prepared for such an eventuality, and she's spicy. The Court's decisions shall be published without delay. Unpublished judgment of the Court declaring non-compliance with the Constitution repeals, although it did not say that it had to be applied The presumption of conformity of the provision with the Constitution. That's it. The general courts are to do what they think is appropriate, i.e. they are not bound by this presumption of conformity of the law with the constitution, but are subject to the law and the constitution. And they can rule as they see fit. And can this duality... So far there has been no such situation, I do not know the situation, that the court should simply say: now it is we who apply something completely different. I don't know what it's gonna be like. from the so-called: The Warsaw law, which was challenged by President Komorowski, and was now recognised by the Court as a constitutional law, of which I am very pleased. Is this bill going to be published now or not? This is very important for the State Treasury, for you. It is difficult to say now that we will rule as in this law, which is not published. That's the ambiguities here. The National Judicial Council protects the independence of the judiciary and the Supreme Court upholds the rule of law, so these objectives are very consistent. I wouldn't want judges... to be subject to justice, even indirectly, to executive power. They're just independent authorities. They have to respect each other. However, it must be said clearly and unambiguously that the independence of the judiciary is not some kind of judge's will. And it's not something to support the authority of a judge, it's for people. Thanks to the independence, independence of the judicial authority, man has the right to believe that his case will be settled independently and unwittingly. Those cases that are shown in the media, some spicy stuff, not very well-judged. We don't really know if it's too good, because we don't know a very wide background. These are individual cases that occur in every profession. The judges are really strongly reviewed for their moral and professional status, and this authority cannot really be undermined. Once challenged authority will be rebuilt for a very long time. I would like to say this to you because... just as it is necessary to build the authority of the Prime Minister, the President and the Parliament, because the authority of power is not given once and for all, it is not possible to destroy and defy the authority of the judge, because he will never be rebuilt. And if the judges are not bound, they will rule as he wills from whom they will hang. And that can also strike you in the future. So it's better that the courts are always independent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u195	Thank you. Senator Piotr Zientarski wants to ask you another question. Please. And Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u196	Excuse me, Madam President, for asking such questions... [[First President of the Supreme Court of Margaret Gersdorf: You harass me.]] Yes, I am. Yeah, but I'm having second thoughts. Madam President, this is a very well-known case of the famous pardon of Mr Mariusz Kaminski and the others. It is known that the Supreme Court was not involved because the legal question was not addressed there. I'm thinking about it because this issue is still... I'm not just talking about this case anymore, but I'm talking about possibilities of this kind at all, about when the President's pardon process can begin. [[...you speak as a politician.]] I'm talking in abstracto, I'm talking about legal matters, not political issues, I'm emphasising, of course, on the cognition of this casusu, but I'm not going back to that casusu. I understand that the question was not formally asked, but couldn't the Supreme Court express a legal opinion or a resolution in abstract, as it were, for the future, about a very important problem that ignites the discussion of lawyers to red? I understand that this is very...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u197	Mr. Senator... [[Yes?]] ...this case wasn't in the field of action... [[But it's a matter of...]] ...the Supreme Court last year. [[...careful of the uniformity of the case law of the general court. And here's the verdict...]] [[What's that got to do with court?]] [[...to deal with.]] Mr. Senator... [[For now...]] ...I ask for questions that relate to the work of the Supreme Court last year. Yeah, well, I'm gonna take that question off the table. And please ask questions about... [[About.]] ...about the information that the president has submitted to us. We're not gonna talk about things that the Supreme Court didn't deal with. [[May I?]] You're welcome. Mr. Senator Silence.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u198	Madam President, I have a question about the second very important institution, which is in the hands of the Supreme Court, in addition to the cassation actions, namely the action for finding that a final decision is unlawful. How's it look? What are the number of complaints? And how does the president feel that this institution, as introduced relatively recently, has worked? Because, as far as I know, in practice, it is very difficult for the Supreme Court to accept such a complaint at all, and I think the number of such complaints that are recognised is entirely traceable. But maybe it's different. Maybe I'm wrong.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u199	Thank you very much. Are you Marshal Borusewicz... [[In a minute.]] Then please, Madam President, for an answer, and then Mr. Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u200	With regard to the number of these complaints for finding an unlawful decision, this is on page 206. I don't remember how many there are, but I can read it. In 2015, there were 134 in the Civil Chamber; this is the largest chamber. 34 actions for finding unlawfulness are in the work room, and there are some complaints about chronicity. In the Penalty Chamber They're actually trace amounts because they didn't even mark it. So the majority of these actions for finding unlawful judgment are in the Civilian Chamber. 134 It seems to me that this is some kind of gateway for a citizen who does not have a cassation complaint because of the value of the subject matter of the dispute. And this is an institution that has a role to play. It is different that the conditions for accepting, recognizing a complaint or even saying that a patent is right are very high. Because it's not good when we adopt a legal system in which we can appeal ad Kalendas Graecas, as I say, over and over again, endlessly. The cassation complaint and if not, it's still this, and if it's not, it's that and this case is never over. I understand that for a citizen who loses a case, it's important for him to keep appealing until he finally gets his own, which is the court would admit to him. But it's not like that. You win once, you lose once. And these judgments of the common courts or of the Supreme Court seem to me to be balanced. And if the citizens are so dissatisfied with this court... First of all, it's exaggerated. Because not everyone who is dissatisfied was at all in court, as it turns out, but only heard, knows it's unpleasant. Maybe it's unpleasant in the O.R. Because first of all, you have to stand somewhere in the middle. I myself, when I was in court for the first time as a judge, was quite upset, I, a man by the law, and here comes a simple man, killing his own, speaking such a hermetic language, so it all causes some stress related to the courtroom. But please note that the judge has a different stress: quickly state, because he has 500, 600 cases to decide a year, he has two cases every day, so as if there is often no time for courtesy. Of course, he shouldn't be rude, I always pay attention to that. But not everything is perfect. However, I would like to draw your attention, if I can still take a minute, to develop alternative ways of resolving disputes that existed, but were destroyed by the conciliation committees, etc. After 1990, because there was a great deal of confidence in the courts. It was thought that the independent court would decide that. It seems to me that, despite the negative assessment of this judiciary, this trust is still when people go to court. Please note that all arbitration clauses and arbitration courts end in the fact that... you can always bring a case to a court of law. They have something to do because this man has an alternative. It may go to the court of law. All entrepreneurs say it's all taking too long. Then go to arbitration, but without that clause... The arbiter will make a percentage of your entry, and the judge will make a... I did the math: the general judge earns 40 PLN per hour, and the highest is 70 PLN. Show me the lawyer who's gonna work for that kind of money. The Supreme Court judge earns 70 zlotys an hour, despite a generally quite large salary. I'm not complaining here that the Supreme Court doesn't make enough money if it makes so much money, but it could be better. I've always thought, without thinking about myself, that the Supreme Court judges should make an average of good lawyers, because then these good lawyers will come... The defendant goes to court because he's pretty cheap there, and besides, he thinks it's independently... If he's going there, that means he believes it. That's what it looks like. This complaint is for people so... At least I can get some compensation if this court really did the wrong thing. Right? If this court has done really wrong, and not within the limits of free judgment, it will certainly be right to admit to that person, and that will be the basis for compensation. Thank you. I'm sorry, I've had a little chat, but it's in my heart.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u201	Thank you very much, Madam President. And Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. Mr. Marshal, question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u202	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I want to ask you how you limit the possibility of asking questions. There's rules, there's legal use. This is the first time I've met with these kinds of limitations. That's a general question. At the previous meeting, I met with the limitation of the reporting person's comments on the activities of the National Radio and Television Council, and now, as if on the other hand... There is an appropriate provision, your marshal has the right to interpret this provision, but there is also the law used here in the Senate. [[Questions should be asked about it.]] Now, here's the question. I'd like to ask you two questions. First in terms of pardon, but not so much in terms of pardon, but in terms of redemption... The president not only pardoned four citizens, but also dropped the case, interrupted the case. This case was before the appeal. That's the first line. Did you, as President of the Supreme Court, meet this situation in 2015, sooner or later? Second question. In a situation where the Constitutional Tribunal is paralyzed, can the Supreme Court take over part of the powers of interpretation? The Court completes the legal gaps, as the President said a few minutes ago. Is that possible? Is there such a legal possibility?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u203	Already, Mr. Marshal? Yes? Mr. Marshal, for many years you have been a marshal, and you know that because of the proceedings I am deciding... I am giving the floor and determining any doubts in accordance with the rules of procedure. You are asking the President to give an opinion on matters which were not in the scope of the proceedings of the Supreme Court in 2015, and I have therefore repealed this question. And I don't think I've done anything against Senate policy.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u204	Mrs. Marshal, I was actually a marshal, I was a marshal for three terms, and I didn't raise any questions from the opposition, ever. [[I understand, Mr. Marshal...]] Therefore, I thought that there was already a legal union in the Senate and that this Senate is different from the Sejm.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u205	I understand, Mr. Marshal. We're not going into polemics because it's not the time or the time. I ask the President now to answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u206	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Marshal, I am not a criminal, so I personally have not met with such a situation of dismissal by the President of the case. Mr. President said he served the courts. I'm not discussing the district court ruling. It was possible for the district court to rule directly on this case, but it was also possible Because it was a difficult case, and a precedent case, it was a question to the Supreme Court. And we counted on such a question, they were prepared for it in an intellectual sense. But the question wasn't asked. So the case fell apart. There is no such question, there is no discrepancy, because this is one case, so it cannot be answered by the Supreme Court on what should be done in this case. The first President of the Supreme Court will not ask such a question, because it will meet with the opinion of the judges that there is no discrepancy and there is no answer to the question asked. The judges are very clear about this legal justice system, so I have to be careful too. Paralleling the Constitutional Tribunal is obviously causing that acts, etc., will not be repealed, and the Supreme Court cannot do so. We were wondering what would happen, how matters relating to these contested laws would affect the courts. 'Cause there's no way out. A lawyer needs to find a way to deal with this situation. And we thought to some extent But only ad casum, in a given case, in the case of Mrs Pikutowska, who says that this solution is incompatible with the Constitution The court may consider and say, for example, that this is contrary to the constitution. But they won't... the Constitutional Court and the Court's rulings are a sort of system valve, aren't they? And the common court can only say to itself in a particular case: yes, according to this court, this and this is contrary to the constitution. That is why this resolution of April this year, which raises so much controversy, has been formulated so. But next year, I'm gonna talk about it, and then maybe the emotions are gonna drop. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u207	Thank you, Madam President. Are there any more questions for the president? I don't see any calls. Madam President, thank you very much for your extensive information for answering questions. Thank you very much. [[First President of the Supreme Court of Margaret Gersdorf: Thank you very much.]] [[Applause]] I'm opening a discussion. Senator Sławomir Rybicki was the first to speak. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u208	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have listened with interest to Professor Małgorzata Gersdorf's speech and to my appreciation and to my speech and to the activities of the Supreme Court in 2015, but also to the activity of the court and the attitude of the court in the months that passed already in 2016. As regards the performance of the statutory duties of the Supreme Court in 2015, they should be assessed very positively. More than 11,000 cases of diverse and complex nature, of which more than 10,000 have been identified. At a high level, numerous actions were carried out to disseminate information about case law, whether through publications or through the Ombudsman's activities. Numerous scientific conferences, cooperation with other public institutions are noteworthy. This balance sheet is definitely positive. The Supreme Court, and that's what the President mentioned, too. It is a specific judicial authority appointed to exercise justice by ensuring the legality and uniformity of judgments by common and military courts. In addition, the Supreme Court, which is important to us senators, gives an opinion on the draft laws and other normative acts on the basis of which the courts are ruling and functioning, as well as on the laws for which the Supreme Court will simply consider this to be deliberate. And it is precisely these 2 prerogatives of the Supreme Court that I would like to address in particular. Firstly, it is an assessment of the quality of legislation. Here, in this room where the law is created by us, by the senators, this problem becomes particularly important. Namely, the conclusions of the report show that the Supreme Court is becoming increasingly aware of the bad and non-existent signs of improvement, and even the progressive deterioration of the state of legislation, that is in extenso quoted. Major jurisdictional problems are largely due to numerous changes in law, including in particular civil procedural law. Multiple amendments are provisional and ad hoc and are far from professionalism. The legislator introduces them without sufficient reflection and without consultation, as a result of false impulses and the belief that the only remedy for irregularities occurring in the application of the law is its immediate change. Today there was a debate in this Chamber about a law amending the Act on Occupational and Social Rehabilitation and employment of people with disabilities. It was the 50th debate and the 50th novel of this law. This applies, of course, not only to this term, but also to the previous ones, I am well aware of that. Unfortunately, we must agree with this critical opinion contained in the report and ask how to improve the quality of legislation in Poland. This is a question first and foremost, as always, to the parliamentary majority. It may also be useful to use more frequently the substantive opinions issued with concern for the quality of the law in question by the Supreme Court. I believe that the role and importance of the Supreme Court in signalling loopholes in law, irregularities and inaccuracies are crucial for the functioning of the legal system. Secondly, I would like to express my highest appreciation for the responsible, wise and legitimate concern for the rule of law in Poland, the April resolution of the General Assembly of Supreme Court Judges on the Constitutional Tribunal. The judges were determined to uphold the law and independence of judges in Poland, and thanks to such a primal and worthy attitude of the Supreme Court we have the chance to avoid extremely dangerous legal duality, i.e. a situation in which some courts will recognise the judgments of the Court and others will not. The resolution is an indication for universal and military courts how to interpret the law, says that a public announcement gives the judgment of the Court an attribute of validity, so it exists in the legal order. So there is a great chance that this resolution will ensure uniform case-law of the courts in the interests of the public. High Izbo, I would like to assure you, by expressing my appreciation to the President for this attitude, that the Senators of the Civic Platform will defend the authority of the Supreme Court against the ruthless attacks carried out for purely political reasons. The independence of judges and the independence of courts become a key issue in the public debate, and I will say more, they become a key issue for the functioning of a democratic rule of law based on a threefold division of power. Madam President, thank you very much. Thank you, High House. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u209	Thank you, Senator. I'd like to speak with Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. You're welcome, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u210	Mrs. Marshal! Madam President! I, too, thank you for this report. The Supreme Court performs its function well, not only in everyday work, but also with regard to the opinions that I have the opportunity to read, the opinions concerning the Constitutional Court, but also in general opinions concerning the space that the Supreme Court deals with. At the same time, I would like to say that the Supreme Court is acting in an unprecedented situation, because attempts to put pressure on judges, not just the Supreme Court, are clear and more frequent, starting with the pressure on judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, which is called a group of colleagues, and the meetings of the Constitutional Court are called a meeting of a group of colleagues. It is so that, in a normal situation, citizens are not aware of the importance of independence and independence of courts and judges. Just like they don't realize that you have to breathe air, that it's necessary until that air starts to run out. This is undoubtedly a very difficult situation for the Supreme Court, also for the President personally. Because everyone, not only the Constitutional Tribunal, but also you, is under pressure. Not directly but indirectly What could be. It is clear to me that, after the Constitutional Tribunal has been paralyzed, there will be changes in the judiciary, so-called judicial reform, which will be subject to the judiciary of the executive authority. What has happened so far A refusal by the President of the Republic of Poland to swear three judges elected to the Constitutional Tribunal in accordance with the law, but also a recent refusal to appoint about 10 judges, at different levels This is the next step. If these steps are repeated, we will have the end of the rule of law. Because the rule of law is based on independent courts and independent judges. [[We're not gonna let that happen.]] [[Judge Milewski...]] Is he a friend of yours, Senator? Because it's not mine. [[That independent judge...]] [[Quiet, please. Don't bother the marshal.]] Judge Milewski? If this is your friend, then confess to him. This is a bad situation, not just for the rule of law. This is a bad situation for Poland. Unfortunately, further decisions show that the governing group will continue. How far? Everybody's asking themselves that question. [[Before that, Mr. Marshal knows...]] [[Mr. Senator, avoid comment.]] Mr. Senator, I'm not going to mention you by name. But I have the impression that you play the role of political commissioner and that you are here upholding the rule of law. You won't see to my rule of law, I'm sorry. Madam President, I would also like to thank you and the judges and the staff of the Supreme Court. And I am sure that regardless of the situation, judges of the Supreme Court and in general judges in Poland will continue to be independent and independent in their ruling. [[So do we.]] Thank you all so much for this. Thank you, all judges. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u211	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator Piotr Zientarski. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u212	Mrs. Marshal! Madam First President of the Supreme Court! I, too, would like to lean deeply, with great respect for the work of the Supreme Court and its authority... I was raised in ethos. That's what I'd say. The Supreme Court. I remember times past and the fact that many Supreme Court judges actually showed what it means to be a lawyer of the highest sort, a lawyer truly independent in difficult times, I think in more difficult than today. And so it is now. I am pleased that in the Supreme Court, which at the moment guarantees the balance of the authorities... And the balance of the authorities translates into the rule of law. Without this balance of power, we cannot talk about the democratic state of law that we are and I hope so. We want to be. We want to be in the family of democratic legal states, we have adopted the Western model. Indeed, the case law of the Supreme Court, and what was emphasized here... I would particularly like to thank you not only for 2015. This is a continuation, a normal continuation of the Supreme Court's position in terms of opinions. These opinions were, in fact, in common with other opinions of various legal corporations, but for us, for lawyers, the Supreme Court's opinion was always of particular importance, it was the crown of opinion. Indeed, there are many examples of the Supreme Court showing great courage in its opinions. I don't want to give casus, but much bigger than even... There was an ombudsman's case, too. Or the Helsinki Foundation; in this situation it was the Helsinki Foundation. The Supreme Court is indeed supreme. The Supreme Court is composed of the greatest legal authorities. And it's good that it is. And this practice should continue to apply. Who was accused by the current Minister It was very narrow, because the president was talking about 8 or 9 judges, in which case more than half of them were denied... The point is that the best judges of appeals can be posted for these three months so that they can not only verify themselves, but also be verified in this particular, completely different case law of the Supreme Court. And indeed of them later the Supreme Court, and so it has been so far, could complement its composition. I am pleased that your President continues to act as a representative of the Supreme Court, as a constitutional body, in a way that often requires this true judicial ethos to be shown in the National Judicial Council. After all, it is an organ which is to protect the independence of the judges and the independence of judges. We repeat as a mantra certain things, but we do so because at present they are not fears sucked out of the finger, those about which Mr. Marshal Borusewicz spoke just now. They are real situations, real threats. We know of a decision in Budapest, where the best judges of the Supreme Court were disposed of by lowering the retirement age; then, of course, there were the European Commission's actions and they were restored... But these judges were no longer restored. And I hope that this Hungarian system will not be transferred as part of the reform of the Polish judiciary. Because the experience of these judges... Not so long ago, ladies and gentlemen, we have increased the upper age of the Supreme Court judge by two years in order to exploit the potential of the most outstanding judges. I remind you of that, and I think in the interests of a well-understood, true democracy and the real implementation of the rule of law... Without independent and independent judges, in particular Supreme Court judges, there can be no guarantee of fundamental civil rights. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u213	Thank you very much. Senator Zbigniew Silence. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u214	Mrs. Marshal! Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! The power of judgment is a very difficult authority, requiring immense craftsmanship, and the outcome of judging in every single case always leaves the unsatisfied in at least one side, the one who lost. That is why it is often so easy to criticize if the judgment is not our way. But it is precisely the role of the Supreme Court that, with all the complexity of the legal system, which in the vast gallop of the 21st century creates a very diverse system... It is not a monocentric system, as it was once when the national legislature issued laws and it was the only legal order. Now it is a very complex system based on international law, including the law resulting from our membership of the European Union, on national law and finally, it must be said, on a kind of precedent established by the case law of the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, which follows the European Convention on Human Rights, which contains only a dozen substantive provisions governing certain rights and which are the subject of the case law of the Strasbourg Court, which only gives them concrete content. And praise is given to the Supreme Court for the fact that in its case law it often refers to the case law of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, taking the enormous effort to interpret our law in the light of these standards, whose failure by us often results in Poland losing its cases before the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, especially as part of a pilot system for examining cases when it is established that our law is dysfunctional and sometimes even the judicial system. I would like to recall this, for example, in the context of the recent judgment of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg in the Rutkowski case and others, in which it was stated that the length of the procedure in Poland was about law and practice, which is a systemic disadvantage, which requires legislative interference and a change of practice. And it is good that the Supreme Court, at least in its case law, is trying to remedy such a situation, often referring, as I say, to these judgments. What I would like to add is that the Supreme Court also serves as a function... aimed not only at establishing a proper, but also a coherent interpretation, i.e. by the power of its authority, to force uniform application of the law. The courts of the lower courts, although formally not related, because each judge is independent, often refer to the interpretation of the Supreme Court and apply the law as the Supreme Court does. Thus, the law is applied uniformly by courts in different parts of the country. Because let us imagine what it would be like if individual courts interpreted the rules at their own discretion, without referring to this rich case law of the Supreme Court or the Strasbourg Court. Nevertheless, I would like to draw attention to one possibility that I feel Maybe it's wrong, but I think it's wrong. It is not fully used by the Supreme Court. Namely, it seems to me that the number of legal questions concerning the compatibility of the law with the Constitution, addressed to the Constitutional Tribunal, is not adequate to the real situation arising from the state of our law, but which should often be subject to review by the Constitutional Tribunal. There are relatively few cases where the Supreme Court refers to the Court, requesting a decision on the compatibility of the regulation with the Constitution. And that's too bad, because I'll remind you that in such a very sensitive case, what it was like to take away people who retired, care benefits for their disabled children, in which there were as many as 150 complaints sent to the Supreme Court... Well, unfortunately, in more than 100 cases, the Supreme Court refused to recognise the cassation action and in other cases dismissed those actions. What's going on? Then the case goes to the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg and the Moskal case, in the Chai case and in many other cases, the Strasbourg tribunal states that the regulation of the Article. Article 114 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Act on the social security system... and, in fact, the Act on pensions from the Social Insurance Fund (Social Insurance Fund) concerns the latter Act (the latter) contrary to Article 1 of Protocol No 1 to the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which concerns respect for property rights, because they deprive people of rights acquired as a result of the fact that the ZUS spokesperson differently assessed the need for child care on the basis of the same documents as the basis of previous decisions. Well, violating that right makes it very difficult for parents who, sometimes after a few years after they have stopped working, to be deprived of these measures. And if the Supreme Court would then have asked the Constitutional Court a question about the compatibility of such regulation with the Constitution, perhaps we would have prevented it. Incidentally, as I recall, the Constitutional Tribunal finally found that the article was incompatible with the Constitution, only that it was, on request, if I remember correctly, an ombudsman. And this kind of situation could be avoided if the Supreme Court sometimes showed greater sensitivity, well, from the point of view of assessing the validity of the law. I know that the court is primarily called upon to apply this law, which is in force, but it would be advisable to be more critical, especially since I sometimes met as a lawyer with curiosity judgments, including the Supreme Court, which then Like the case I was talking about, the Strasbourg court and the Strasbourg court took a very different position from the position of our Supreme Court. I'll remind you of a case I remember perfectly. No, it's hard not to remember. In which I filed a complaint to the Supreme Court for delaying the proceedings for a man who was suffering from cancer, and the case had already been going on for four years, and the Supreme Court admitted that such delay had taken place, but did not grant any sum of money as compensation, because it concluded that as a professional I did not demonstrate what kind of negative effects of mental or health nature resulted from this delay. Well, it was a psychic Supreme Court ruling. I took the liberty of writing a critical voice on this subject. And as I referred the matter to the Strasbourg Court, fortunately, the government quickly came to an agreement and settledly paid this man the maximum amount provided for in the bill of complaint for delaying proceedings, i.e. PLN 20,000. And this poor man, who was actually at the end of his life, was at least so satisfied that he won the case in Strasbourg. So that I am appealing for greater sensitivity, and not just for Juridic correctness. Besides, all lawyers should, I believe, be not only law engineers, but a kind of virtuosoes in the application of this law, so as to comply with this beautiful principle, which was expressed by Roman lawyer Urpanus, ius est ars boni et aequi, i.e. the law is the art of good and right. And may the Supreme Court uphold this very art of good and right. I wish this to the entire Supreme Court and thank you for this very reliable report, Madam President. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u215	Thank you very much, Senator. And Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u216	Madam President! Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! It is appropriate to attach to the praises relating to the report and to the efforts made by the Supreme Court in the past year. But it cannot be overlooked that for the first time since our country regained sovereignty in the past year, the Supreme Court has acted under changed circumstances. And it could be said that not so much the case law of the Supreme Court as the attitude of the judges and the President began to play a completely different role than before. Therefore, this good assessment concerns not only those issues which Senator Cichoń has just spoken about here, but also this unbreakable and powerful attitude that you have taken for all of us on matters that we are in breach of law, especially the Constitution, have pointed out here in the Senate. And I'd like to thank you very much. Your name from this speaker has been mentioned many times in the past, and this year. We could make use of these opinions with the full conviction that we could count on a good fulfillment of the Supreme Court's mission, for which the letter of law stands. That's why I came out on the stand. Several times I asked myself, not only how often he tries to bend or break the law in an unworthy way, and not only because it was done so unceremoniously. I was standing here, holding that opinion file. Your opinion was here, too. And I said, "What is it that you can ignore?" I also asked several times the question: why do you do this? And that's what I'd like to end, because it seems to me that the time when we're all gonna look at the states, believing that you're gonna stay where you belong, then when you need to, it's just coming. I am convinced that the answer to the question why the crisis is prolonged around the Constitutional Tribunal is: because it is about courts, their independence, judges, their independence and local governments. Perhaps this autumn, perhaps in a few weeks' time, we can witness attempts to limit the independence of the courts and the independence of the judges. I would therefore like to thank the President and ask all the judges of our warm thanks, to say that this is not the end yet and that we are counting on you very much, not us in opposition, but us, Poles, because the country that we were talking about is and must remain our country. I know it's an overused quote, but I think it's extremely appropriate here, because once again we can repeat that there's never been so many depending on so few. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u217	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Would the President still like to take the floor and comment on the senators' speeches in the debate? [[First President of the Supreme Court of Margaret Gersdorf: Maybe I won't stall because I have a lot to say...]] Good. Thank you very much. [[First President of the Supreme Court of Margaret Gersdorf: Thank you very much for all your comments and for these warm words.]] [[Applause]] Thank you, Madam President. I thank the first president of the Supreme Court, Mrs Margaret Gersdorf, for presenting the information. I state that the Senate took note of the activity of the Supreme Court in 2015. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of the seventh item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Nuclear Law. The text of the Act is contained in print No 228 and the report of the Commission In print No 228 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Environment Committee, Senator Maciej Łuczak, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u218	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the proposed amendments to the Act of atomic law. The bill's draft amendment is a parliamentary project, Senate print No 228. Marshal of the Senate on July 8th this year. addressed the draft law to the Committee on the Environment, which adopted the draft law without amendment on 19 July. Nine senators voted, no one abstained, all in favour. High Izbo, the purpose of the Act is to arrange solutions for the appointment and dismissal of vice-presidents of the State Agency for Atomics and the Council for Nuclear Safety and Radiological Protection. In accordance with the current Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the This amendment provides that the Minister may revoke the Vice-Presidents without having to make a request by the President of the Agency. Amendment to Article The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, In addition, the Act introduces new rules on how to appoint and establish membership of the Council. In accordance with the proposed arrangements, the Minister will appoint the members of the Board after consulting the President of the Agency. The appointment by the Minister of the President, the Deputy Chairman and the Registrar and the removal of a member of the Board shall not require the opinion of the President of the Agency. At the same time, it adds after paragraph. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5a that the withdrawal of membership of the Board shall take place in the event of the appeal of a member of the Board, the written resignation of a member of the Board and the death of a member of the Board. The Act provides for the expiry of the current term of office of the Council as of the date of entry into force of the Act. According to Art. 2 of the Act, it is to enter into force after 14 days from the date of the announcement. I would also like to mention here that all the proposed amendments are in line with European Union law and do not affect the requirements of Council directives. As I said, at the beginning of the vote, all senators were in favour of the proposed amendments to the law without amendments. Please accept the amendments to the Act "Atomic Law" without amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u219	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Silence... Excuse me, Senator Florek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u220	We're alike. Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I'm going to go back to what you just quoted and said, that until the vice presidents are dismissed, you don't need an application from the president of the agency. The Minister responsible for Environment shall appoint vice-presidents at the request of the President of the Agency and shall no longer be present at the time of revocation. I think it's a bit of a curiosity situation. The practice is that the rules of appointment and cancellation are the same In general, this method is used. You've justified it by the fact that, in the absence of a CEO, it's possible in this case... In my opinion, this is a really curiosious justification for this proposal, because it could be passed on to all other vocations and appeals, and it could also be done there. So I'd like to know if you were discussing... Does this change result solely from the fact that it is one thing, centralization and that the Minister has the right to appoint and cancel whomever he wants, or is there any other justification? The same goes on; with regard to the Council, it is no longer the President, and the Minister appoints these 10 members. So, in general, we are dealing with the centralization of power. Is that all it is, or is there any other justification? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u221	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u222	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, this wasn't a matter of consideration at the committee meeting. I think the Minister here will answer your question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u223	Thank you very much, Senator. Are there any more questions? I don't see any calls. Thank you, Senator rapporteur. [[Thank you.]] The draft law was introduced by Members. Today we welcome Minister Andrzej Szweda-Lewandowski, Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of the Environment, Chief Conservation Officer of Nature and Mr Andrzej Przybycin, President of the State Agency for Atomistics. Would the Minister like to speak on the draft law? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u224	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I would just like to say that the government's position is positive when it comes to amending this law. These changes really standard a certain approach to the appointment of both the Council and the Presidents. I would also like to point out that the arrangements for the appointment of members of the Council are similar, as in the case of the National Council for the Protection of Nature, the Council acting at the General Director for the Protection of the Environment, i.e. the Environmental Impact Assessment Board. It's a certain codification of laws. As far as what the senator has raised is concerned, these provisions give the possibility to appoint the members of the minister's council in case there is no president. This is the situation that we are currently seeing, and it is also a matter of law. President, no CEO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u225	Thank you very much, Minister. Stay at the podium, or there'll probably be questions for the Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Senator Hare, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u226	Thank you very much. Minister, when will this state of duty end? That's my first question. And two: has the President appointed a new board as of July 2nd?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u227	No, he didn't set up a new board. When the Minister appoints the president of the agency, by means of an open competition, as he proposes to amend this law, it will be possible to... And then the minister can cancel the vice presidents. Right now, as I'm saying, there's a person acting president.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u228	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? Senator Komarnicki, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u229	First of all, my concern is that according to this law, it is the Minister for the Environment, not the president of the agency, who appoints and dismisses the Vice-Presidents, because it proves such a typical centralization, control in advance. The next case, the Minister for the Environment, appoints and dismisses all members of the Nuclear Safety Board. There is no alternative here, so to speak, to the President, who can see a member who is outstanding and want to keep him, because you will decide the Minister. If one of the members puts him at risk... From among the members of the Council, the Minister for the Environment shall indicate, in accordance with that law, the President and Vice-President, the Deputy Chairman, and the Registrar. Both the agency and the council... [[Question, Mr. Senator. Ask me a question.]] My question is very simple: why does the Minister of Environment call them and not the President?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u230	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u231	You'd have to ask the applicants for this amendment of the bill. I will repeat once again that the mechanism for calling this counsel is twins to the mechanisms for calling these counsels, in which I spoke earlier, among others. The National Council for Nature Protection. In my opinion, the logic is that the Minister... This is the council, which is the minister's advisory body. The Minister has the right to appoint members of this council to whom he simply trusts as regards the substantive aspects. The same is true of the National Council for the Protection of Nature, the same is true of the Council for Environmental Impact Assessment. It's obvious to me. The Minister must have on this council the people he trusts, which he relies on in terms of substance. I think that's the point.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u232	Thank you. Does anyone else want to ask the Minister a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act on Access to Genetic Resources and the sharing of benefits from their use. The text of the Act is contained in print No 248 and the committee's report In print No 248 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on the Environment, Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u233	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I report on the Act on Access to and sharing the benefits of genetic resources on behalf of 2 committees: the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on the Environment. This law comes from the government's submission and was adopted by the Sejm almost unanimously. It aims to introduce into the national legal system the provisions contained in Regulation No 511/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014. This Regulation is a consequence of the Nagoya Protocol's requirements for access to genetic resources and the fair and fair sharing of the benefits of the use of these resources. Of course, the Act clarifies concepts such as genetic resources, like, say, all such elements that are included in this Act. The Nagoya Protocol, which was created to clarify the Convention on Biological Diversity, has created an international system that provides countries providing genetic resources with financial benefits and not only financial benefits from the new use of these resources. It also prevents enrichment practices at the expense of countries with high biodiversity. The Convention on Biological Diversity shall apply to all genetic resources: plant, animal, cellular, with the exception of genetic resources derived from humans, human. Nor is it applicable to food, which is also important. What exactly does this law contain? It shall specify in particular the characteristics and tasks of public administrations in implementing the provisions of Regulation No 511/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council. This national public administration body is a minister, which is the minister of the environment, so I would say. The Act sets out the principles and modalities for carrying out checks on the compatibility of access and use of genetic resources and traditional knowledge related to genetic resources referred to in that Regulation, acquired outside the Republic of Poland and the sharing of benefits from their use. Finally, it lays down the rules on liability for infringement of the provisions of the Regulations which the Protocol contains. These are the most important, sort of general principles. But this law also indicates the body controlling all the records that should be included in our national law. This control body is the Chief Inspector for Environmental Protection, who categorizes part of his powers in the voivodship's environmental inspectors. When entities wishing to use genetic resources do not comply with certain provisions of this protocol, as well as our law, then... Well, the law also defines criminal sanctions, financial sanctions, in a rather large fork-break, let's say, from 1 thousand PLN to up to 50 thousand PLN, depending on how I say so, offences, omissions, etc. But it is clear that in the event of administrative penalties being imposed, the controlling authority may refrain from imposing a penalty in a situation where the entity has not actually been guilty or may not have known that it has failed to comply with something there. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, this law sets maximum limits for the expenditure of the state budget for a period of almost 20 years, 2016.2025, which is the financial result of the law, and this financial dimension is set at nearly PLN 14.73 million. This is roughly evenly divided into individual years, except in 2016, when this programme will not be fully run or financed. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill comes into force after 14 days. At the joint meeting of both committees, namely the Committee on Agriculture, I would like to say briefly, and the Committee on the Environment, which took place on 27 July, the committees took note of the programme, also listened to the positions of the government and held a brief discussion, especially with regard to financial penalties. After the discussion had been completed, the committees unanimously accepted the proposal to submit this law without amendments and asked the High House to adopt this resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u234	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see... [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] Senator Infantry. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u235	Dear Senator, I have a question about whether there was a question of additional funding for voivodship centers in committee regarding the tasks reported, whether this money is placed there and whether there are indicated sources of funding... [[I don't understand the beginning of the question.]] The environmental inspection will have increased tasks. Is this the reason why the Act sets out additional financial resources for the performance of these tasks?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u236	There's no mention of it in the bill and we haven't talked about it. But since you're entrusting yourself to someone, I think there should be money in the budget for it. [[Thank you. I'll ask the minister that question. Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u237	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to ask a question? I can't see. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for the Environment has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Minister Andrzej Schweda-Lewandowski is with us. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u238	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Act on Access to and Sharing the Benefits of Genetic Resources creates the necessary conditions for the implementation of EU Regulation No 511, which implements the provisions of the Nagoya Protocol as regards user obligations in the European Union. This law implements these obligations simply to the extent that it has to. The law therefore lays down the characteristics and tasks of public administrations in implementing the provisions of that Regulation, as well as the principles and modalities for carrying out checks on the compatibility of access and use of genetic resources and traditional knowledge associated with these resources; it lays down the rules on liability for infringements of the provisions of that Regulation; it sets out the arrangements for entering the collection of genetic resources in the Union register of collections, as required by Regulation No 511; it establishes the control body for collections already included in that register; it lays down rules on effective, proportionate and dissuasive sanctions, introducing administrative fines for infringements of Regulation No 511. The Senator rapporteur described this law in depth, so that was all I had to add.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u239	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Any of you... Senator Alicia the Hare. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u240	Thank you very much, Marshal. Me in addition to a colleague of the Infantry's. I would like the Minister to clarify the environmental services' activities. The base you're gonna be working on is a special base. It's not gonna be common, it's not gonna be like the inspectors are gonna start doing genetic tests all of a sudden. They will be selected individuals or one selected for the whole country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u241	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u242	The situation is in this way that... May I first add that there is a whole new scope of responsibilities here, which is precisely defined by Regulation No 511 in the countries of the European Union. All countries, practically the whole Union, are currently implementing the provisions of this Regulation. This regulation is not practical yet. It's all gonna go through time. The checks will be carried out by the regional environmental inspectors, but they will mainly be carried out in this way provided for by the regulation. . formal case checks, i.e. checks to demonstrate the correctness of the collection of genetic resources from a third country. Here the formal procedure, which is described in Regulation No 511, will be checked. It seems that... with the country from which the genetic resources are obtained, there must be a formal legal agreement signed. After all, the title of the Act refers to the distribution of benefits. The purpose of Regulation No 511 is to allow third countries, mainly poor countries, African countries, South American countries, of which large pharmaceutical and cosmetic companies, as such are mainly concerned, to collect genetic resources which are then converted and profited from... The first thing I could think of was a shark fin extract, a very popular drug. Pharmaceutical companies benefit from the use of these resources. The checks will depend on... It will have to be shown that it is followed by a procedure which ensures that the third country benefits from the use of its genetic resources by a pharmaceutical company. And it looks like this. These will be mainly formal controls, documentary checks, checks on whether the genetic resources concerned have been collected in that third country in accordance with the law of that country, etc.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u243	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u244	I would like the Minister to use that one word I lacked: security. It's about the safety of genetic material.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u245	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u246	Of course. The control of the collection or part of the collection will consist in checking whether this genetic material is safely stored in accordance with certain procedures, whether it is passed on to third parties in a safe manner. It will be checked whether the agreement between the country from which these genetic resources are obtained covers the question of the possibility that this country may benefit from the fact that... Let's say that the facility will examine the use of a given substance, patent it and pass it on to third, fourth and so on. This is so that the country from which the resources are obtained can benefit from this chain of use of this resource. This is the idea of Regulation No 511 transposed into Polish law by this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u247	Thank you very much. Senator Leszek Infantry, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u248	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I'll repeat my question. I would like to know whether additional financial resources are provided for in the Act due to the increase in the scope of activities of voivodship environmental inspectors. Well, it's some kind of computer program, some kind of study, people. If they are, what will be the source of funding? Thank you very much. I have another question. If I may ask them, Mrs. Marshal... I would like to know to what extent this law will regulate the control of GMOs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u249	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Art. 24 talks about the maximum amount of expenditure per year for each regional environmental inspector and for the chief environmental officer, but this is a theoretical calculation. This is due to the fact that, as I said, We do not know today what the scale of these checks will be, because it is a whole new thing. The calculation provides for the creation of a maximum of 1 additional staff for a person who will only be responsible for this. But I think that's the maximum amount. Now, calmly, 1 person appointed by the Regional Environmental Inspector will be able, in addition to his current duties, to carry out these checks. And the second question... Oh, GMOs. This bill has nothing to do with GMOs. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u250	Thank you, Minister. No further questions. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the National School of Public Administration. The text of the Act is contained in print No 225 and the report of the Commission In print No 225 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Krzysztof Mroz, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u251	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration dealt with the draft law on 19 July 2016 and recommended that the High House adopt the law without amendments. The Act amending the Act on the National School of Public Administration provides the basis for the possibility of ordering the school to provide training in the form of a grant agreement, without a tender. This option will be available to the Head of the Civil Service and to the directors of the budgetary parts for the purpose of carrying out training tasks. This law did not cause any controversy. I can only say that there were 3 arguments in favour of commissioning the National School of Public Administration to train officials of various ministries, offices, Sejm Chancellery, Senate Chancellery. The first is a matter of cost. When we order training today, we do it on the basis of the Public Procurement Law and each office does it separately, individually. So we're not using some potential, scale, because if one institution is running the training, it could just be cheaper. The second argument is that today all public institutions must implement this on the basis of the Public Procurement Law, which, of course, extends a certain process. Public procurement law involves certain requirements and, instead of moving on with training, tendering procedures that are ongoing must be carried out. The third argument, which was raised at the committee meeting, is perhaps the most important. Namely, the point is that the school is prepared for this. In general, as training, even in the same area, is carried out by different actors, they are slightly different. And when one entity will carry out these trainings, often very complicated, it will be a uniform level, it will be a uniform meeriology. It is also, of course, noted that this is also a form of support for a school that has some kind of financial problems. This is for this institution, which is a public finance institution, specific financial support. That's it... Oh, and I'll tell you this, the committee is asking for this bill to be adopted without amendment. Thank you very much... [[Thank you, Senator rapporteur. Right now...]] Only if I could... [[You're welcome.]] ...to say one thing, to finish... They were submitted by the Senate Legislative Bureau of some kind of comments, but they were of a general nature and were not completed with specific proposals for amendments. One of the issues on which the Legislative Office pointed out was that very many concepts are used in the sense that once the state administration is spoken of, another time public administration is spoken of and others are spoken about the administration of the Republic of Poland. Ms Hrynkiewicz, present at the committee meeting, said that if the amendment of the law were to be general, this terminology would become uniform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u252	Thank you, Mr... Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of you like to ask such a question? There are no volunteers. Thank you, Senator rapporteur. The bill was filed by the government. The President of the Council of Ministers has been authorised to present the position of the Government during parliamentary work. Would you like to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Deputy Head of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: Yes, Mr Marshal.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u253	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would not like to repeat here all the arguments put forward by the Senator rapporteur. We all know the reputation of the National School of Public Administration. This school has existed for more than 20 years. Since 1994, more than 60 000 officials have been trained in training This law, as the rapporteur said, comes down to allowing both the head of civil service and the directors of the budget, i.e. ministers, heads of central offices, to instruct KSAP without applying the provisions of the Public Procurement Act, in a simplified form. And here in advance I would like to point out that it is not so that the offices or the head of civil service will have an absolute obligation to order KSAP training. No, it's not. It will be possible to search for these trainings on the market, only then, of course, according to the provisions of the Public Procurement Act. KSAP will have such facilities that these public procurement rules will be excluded in this case. Ladies and gentlemen, for central training... Because at this point we are talking about the central trainings that the Head of Civil Service has commissioned and the trainings that are commissioned by the directors of budgetary parts, i.e. general, specialized trainings, trainings related to the individual development programme. Thus, for central training, those commissioned by the Head of Civil Service, the budget currently provides for PLN 0.5 million. And Minister Dowiat-Urban, the head of civil service, is prepared to begin the commissioning of these trainings immediately after the entry into force of this law, which we are proceeding today. Ladies and gentlemen, please accept this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u254	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. I see Senator Flork's report. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u255	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The task of the KSAP is to educate and prepare civil servants for the public service, and this is generally the task. At the moment, after this amendment there will practically be additional training tasks. I would like to know whether KSAP has so far conducted these trainings for public administration staff or whether they have been conducted. If so, how it looked when it comes to competition in the training market. I'm asking because we're getting such signals that it might disturb... Of course I think it's a good thing that there's an organ that has a well-prepared staff for training, it's a good thing that it educates, but there's also, as always, a price issue for this training. As a result, after this change, this revision of the budget part dispatcher, I am also referring to the Head of Civil Service... In my opinion, however, they will in some way be obliged to do these trainings in KSAP. Is this not going to disrupt the training market that has existed so far? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u256	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u257	Mr. Senator, as I said, KSAP has more than 20 years of tradition and experience in organizing training for civil servants. I also told you he trained 60,000 officials. These trainings include areas of law, administration, public finance, management, public policies, practical applications of information technology, official practices and foreign languages. Each year KSAP offers over 100 such trainings, both in the open form and in the closed form. It is difficult to identify an institution more prepared for training public administration officials than the National School of Public Administration. As for the second question, the question of the impact of the law on the training market today, I would like to inform the senator that in 2015. KSAP received revenues from the training she organized, those 100 per year, which I spoke about, at the level of PLN 2 million. And the whole training market, including non-public entities, is PLN 36 million. That was the story. So in the current state of law, it's a small fraction. After the introduction of this law, of course, it will increase, that is our intention, but we assume that it will not increase so substantially and strongly as to disrupt the functioning of the market, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u258	Good. Minister, when it comes to training in Warsaw, what kind of relationship would that be?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u259	I don't have that kind of information. Perhaps Director Graczyk could answer your Marshal's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u260	I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u261	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Indeed, I would like to add something else to what the Minister just said, clarifying the answer to the senator's question. Currently, according to our knowledge, we have checked this, the share of training provided by the National School of Public Administration in the whole training market in the country is only 5.5%. It's very little, so it's hard to talk about a disturbance, any distortion of competition. The training market in Poland is very large. We estimate that after this amendment the participation of the National School of Public Administration in the training market will increase to 7%, up to 8%, so the difference is indeed very small. It is difficult for me to answer your Marshal's question about what this numerical relationship is in Warsaw itself, because we have rather comprehensive data on the entire civil service corps.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u262	Thank you very much. [[And is there anything else...]] Oh, I'm sorry, Senator Florek. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u263	That's just one more question for me. Why did I ask that? Because trainings located somewhere in the vicinity of Warsaw in some centres can often be more expensive than those which are organized on site. Therefore, my question mainly concerned costs, whether or not a monopoly would arise. But, as I understand it, with this percentage, it won't have any special meaning. And it would be good if these trainings did not take place only in Warsaw and in some centres, quite expensive, near Warsaw, because with a certain monopoly of grants it could be going in this direction. It is also worth considering, because it would be good for these trainings to take place throughout Poland, so that it would also be so-called. away training. That would be so much better. If a large group of people are to leave for training... I think it would be better if the people who train came to this group. It would definitely be cheaper. That's my point, that's my point. Thank you. [[Deputy Head of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u264	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u265	Mr. Senator, thank you so much for your comments. I view them as right and will certainly pass them on to those who will organize these trainings. [[E.g. in Gdansk.]] Also in Gdansk.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u266	I'd ask you to answer my question in writing. [[Deputy Head of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: Of course we will give such an answer.]] If you are able to gather some information about what it will look like in front of Warsaw... [[Voice from the room: Of course, we will prepare such information.]] Thank you very much. Thank you, Minister. There are no more questions. I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to provide a written answer to a question asked by Senator Bogdan Borusewicz. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Act amending the Public Collective Transport Act. The text of the act is contained in print No 251 and the report of the committee In print No 251 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Grzegorz Pekkis, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u267	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The proposed text of the Act aims to amend certain provisions of the Act of 16 December 2010. This is a pose. 1440,. Journal of the Laws of 2015 The change is only to extend the current rules by one year due to the failure of certain local authorities to comply with the requirements of the law. In principle, there was no discussion at the committee meeting. The only performance you can... There was a speech by Marshal Czelej who justified this bill and asked for its support. The committees unanimously supported the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u268	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The bill was introduced by the Senate. Does a government representative, Minister Jerzy Szmit, wish to speak on the bill under consideration? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u269	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The government supports this project. At the same time, I inform the High House that the government has begun to work on a profound amendment of this law. In addition to the motivation that the senator mentioned, speaking of the lack of preparation for the implementation of some local governments... We believe that there are many provisions in this law that should be amended so that public transport in Poland can function better. It's a project like this, so to speak, in the government's working modes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u270	At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Senator Florek. There you go. Minister, please come to the stand.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u271	I think 6 years, if I remember, because from 2010 to 2016... I also asked about it in local governments. The sentences are divided in terms of this preparation, but since we're extending this deadline by a year... I understand the government will prepare it that way. It will be a government project that in a few months there will be no need to discuss this again. The Minister said it would be a comprehensive and broader change. It will probably include reliefs above all, because it is mainly about reliefs for journeys. As I understand it, it will happen before that date... Because it wouldn't be appropriate to extend the vacathio legis for a year so that we can get back to that bill. So I understand that, at this time, it's a government presentation here in the Senate that's gonna show up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u272	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u273	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! The government project is already at the final stage of preparation and I hope that immediately after the break it will enter the Sejm and the normal way will go to the Senate, it will also be conducted in the Senate. The question is why vacathio legis has been extended and is there any point extending it only by one year, when theoretically it would be possible to extend it by two years in order to improve this project. Mr. Senator, it was also thought over and it was discussed, but we thought that even this 1 year of the bill could still be in force for us. Even though we'll do our best to make her the best possible... Because she is very complicated, apart from what you mentioned, about reliefs, it also applies to transport organisation, transport market relations and millions of people who commute to schools every day, to work. We do not rule out the fact that some solutions may not yet be functional and that then we will need this law, just like any such one, to correct it. But the government's will is that the project will be completed as soon as possible... so that, from the beginning of 2018, collective transport can already function well under the new law. [[Minister, could you answer why these six years of vacathio legis were too short and we're prolonging it now?]] I'd have to, Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, actually get into the assessment of the work of local governments, because they're local governments... This is a law addressed to local governments and it is local governments that implement this law. I don't want to speak in any way here. We as a government have been given a task to do and we are trying to do it as quickly as possible. [[Very good.]] Thank you very much. I don't see any more requests for questions. Thank you, Minister... [[There's still...]] Oh, there it is. Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u274	Minister, in the matter of local government, you say it's mostly local government signals... I'd like to know if you have any information on what this preparation was like. But six years was a long time to prepare it. What did it look like in proportional terms? What information did we have, how many local governments were determined, ready to do so, and which signaled that they would unfortunately not comply with these regulations? Is there any proportion you can tell us?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u275	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u276	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! There is no such accurate data, because it is difficult to measure, because it was not monitored, no one was obliged to send such information. But we can certainly measure this level: some local governments have actually announced tenders for communication programmes, which would mean that they are actually ready to be implemented. Yeah, but I think about half of it. They didn't do it. Maybe 60% did it. So it wasn't an accidental phenomenon, such that 1 or 2 local governments or some small group of them didn't make it. Like I said, I don't want to judge. But of course you're absolutely right that five-year-old vacathio legis is, even in this complicated situation, a sufficient period of time. But it's out of my review, except for the government's assessment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u277	Thank you very much. I don't see any more requests for questions. Thank you, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed... [[Voice from the room: Submitted to the protocol...]] Oh, good. I would like to inform you that you have submitted a legislative proposal to Senator Maciej Łuczak, in writing... yes, you have submitted Senator Maciej Łuczak. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposal? [[Voice from the room: It wasn't a motion...]] Excuse me? [[Voice from the room: It was a speech, it wasn't a motion.]] Oh, I'm sorry, I'm straightening up. [[Mr. Marshal doesn't accept applications today.]] Straighten up. [[Wrong human thing.]] Thank you, Minister. I would like to inform you that Senator Maciej Łuczak has made his speech in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on special rules for the preparation and implementation of investments in the field of public use airports. The text of the Act is contained in print No 252 and the committee report In print No 252 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u278	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Joint Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Infrastructure, which held a joint meeting on 2 August 2016. The subject of the meeting was the Law amending the Law on specific rules for the preparation and implementation of investments in the field of public use airports. First of all, I would like to point out that the joint committees unanimously accepted the bill submitted, all the senators were in favour. What is this bill about? In short, it was a parliamentary project, the amendment is intended to postpone by 5 years the deadline by which the airport, airport manager or the Polish Air Navigation Agency will be able to submit an application to the voivodeship for a decision on public airport use, i.e. really use the so-called solutions. an airport specialty. In the light of the provisions currently in force, the deadline for submitting such proposals is 31 December 2015 and the proposal can be submitted by 31 December 2020. The Act is to enter into force 14 days after the date of the announcement. During the meeting of the Joint Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Local Government and State Administration, the Act raised no doubts and was unanimously, in principle without discussion, accepted by all senators in the vote. I therefore ask the High House to adopt the bill in the proposed proposal, i.e. without amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u279	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Are there any such questions? Senator Rooster reporting. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u280	It is not a question, and I would like to add that the Legislative Office has tabled one proposal for an amendment and it has been accepted by a government representative. This amendment was unanimously accepted by the joint committees. And that law was adopted unanimously with this one amendment. Thank you. [[Excuse me, Mr. Marshal, may I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u281	Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u282	I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman, my fault, I didn't really look. The committee meeting was held so quickly and smoothly that... [[So the motion is for the bill to be passed...]] For adoption of the bill with an amendment accepted by the committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u283	Thank you very much. [[There's a question, Mr. Marshal.]] There's a question. Excuse me, Senator, please stay. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u284	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, was there any reference to the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Bureau at the committee meeting? Because, as you read in the letter from the director of Michał Warciński, the parliamentary draft law amending the Law on air law falls within the scope of European Union law; the project is incompatible with European Union law in so far as it is intended to allow the public use of these airports. We're not talking about the Air Accident Investigation Committee, we're talking about these uncertified airports. Has this issue been raised at the committee meeting? [[May I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u285	Good. Senator Grodzki asked the question: is it incompatible... Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u286	Thank you. Mr. Marshal. Senator, this was not the subject of a committee meeting. At the meeting of the committee, the legislature of the Senate Legislative Office did not make such comments. So we didn't eat, so to speak, the Seym Legal Office. That kind of information didn't get to us, and I'm, to be honest, surprised by that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u287	There you go, Senator Grodzki one more time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u288	It is I who would ask our Legislative Office to refer to this issue. Because, you know, it's really dangerous that we allow airports without certification, even when it comes to small-weight planes, etc. It's a little psychic, which is why it bothers me.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u289	Okay, but the Senator rapporteur can't answer that. There's the minister. [[May I, Mr. Marshal?]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u290	Mr. Senator, if I say so, I'm reading the bill well, she doesn't change anything except the deadline for the application. It amends the deadline from 31 December 2015 to 31 December 2020. Thus, the certification of aerodromes is not subject to a change in this novel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u291	Thank you very much, Senator. Any more questions? There isn't. The draft law was introduced by Members. Is Minister Jerzy Szmit willing to respond to this project? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Jerzy Szmit: Yes, Mr. Marshal.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u292	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! Maybe I'll start by explaining, correcting... [[It's a connection to air law...]] I mean, that remark was probably about the next draft bill... [[Oh, next point...]] ...who will be considered. Yes. And that's the question... Anyway, if necessary, I will respond very deeply and substantively to these reservations and those doubts of the senator at the next point. As for this point, I will say this way: Ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo, this law has been very successful. Many regional airports, but also Warsaw Chopin Airport, at that time developed and this law was a very much easier development of airports in Poland. She should just continue. All regional airports are planning further development. It is possible to build a central airport or expand one of the airports to this function. So she is really very much needed and this is a good initiative, and the government strongly supports her. As regards the amendment tabled, there is also support. Indeed, there has been some strange legislative error, a mistake, and it is good that the Senate can correct this mistake. We therefore support this amendment. We're asking for a bill of amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u293	Thank you, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. [[One more question.]] [[Voice from the room: No more questions.]] No more questions. Excuse me. For the record, Senator Maciej Łuczak made his speech in the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the Law on amending the Law on Aviation Law. The text of the Act is contained in print No 259 and the committee report . in print 259 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Wiesław Dobkowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u294	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure, the position of the Committee on Infrastructure on the Law amending the Law on Aviation Law; Senate Prints No 259 and 259 A. The Act was adopted by the Sejm of the Republic of Poland on 22 July 2016. It was a parliamentary project supported by the government of the Republic of Poland. The purpose of this amendment is to clarify the rules on the organisation of the State Commission for the Investigation of Aviation Accidents and to ensure that they comply with European Union law. In addition, the Act simplifies procedures for the opening of airports of exclusive use for public use. New solutions introduced by this law... It introduces the principle of appointing the chairman of the committee and its alternates and the members of the committee for a period of 4 years by the Minister responsible for transport. The committee will include experts in the field of aviation law, air training, air traffic and air operations, as well as engineers in the field of aviation designers. The Act sets out how all the members of that committee are to be appointed. Thus, the chairman of the committee will be appointed within 14 days of the date of entry into force of this Act, while the employment relationship with the previous chairman of the committee will expire. The new chairman of the committee will request the Minister responsible for transport to appoint the deputy chairman of the committee and the secretary of the committee. The Minister shall appoint the President of the person for these posts within 30 days of the date of entry into force of this Act; at the same time, the employment relationship with the former Deputy Chairman and Secretary of the Commission will expire. The relationship of work with the former members of the committee will expire 60 days after the date of entry into force of this Act if they are not appointed as new members of the committee before that date. Those who lose their employment will be entitled to a three-month pay check. The second issue governed by this law, by this amendment, is the changes concerning the temporary opening of an airport of exclusive use for public use for a particular category of aircraft and at certain times of the day. After the adoption of this Act, the aerodrome of exclusive use may be opened to all aircraft within the time limits and hours laid down by the airport manager and made public. A new category of airports is introduced: they will be non-certified public service airports. Such a change in airport availability will be made by appropriate registration in the airport register at the request of the airport manager. From these airports only domestic flights for charter operations carried out exclusively by helicopters and aeroplanes with a maximum take-off mass of less than 10 t or with a number of passenger seats of less than 20 shall be available. Local flights and flights other than those previously mentioned other than commercial flights may also be operated. The bill's about safety. There will be fewer of these permits, red tape, just to turn the airport into a universal airport, provided, however, that it does not impair the safety of the flight and the safety of the landing. Technical and operational requirements for non-certified airports are expected to be similar to those for exclusive use airports. The Act will enter into force 14 days after the date of publication, except for the provision authorising the Minister for Transport to determine by regulation the circumstances and the way in which the flight manager is designated, the requirements which must be met by the flight manager and his powers and duties, the scope of documentation and the technical means necessary to ensure that the flights are operated. This provision shall enter into force 3 months after the date of publication. Mr. Marshal, High Senate, the Committee on Infrastructure is proposing to the High Senate that the bill be adopted without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u295	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Senator Joseph the Hare, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u296	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. Senator! I have one specific question. Namely, according to the proposed provisions, the Act does not provide in the composition of the State Commission for the Investigation of Aviation Accidents of Doctors, Medical Experts. Why were they removed from this group? [[May I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u297	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u298	Thank you. Mr. Senator, this bill is somewhat modelled on the arrangements for the railway accident and maritime accident investigation committee, and there's no record that doctors are still... It was about the second degree specialization in medicine, and so on, but that's not... I mean, it's a possibility, these specialists, as well as other specialists, can act as experts. The Commission has the right simply to appoint experts and, if necessary, they may act as experts at any time. But as for the committee's composition, like I said... I mentioned here what members of this committee are to be.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u299	Thank you. Mr. Senator Borowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u300	And I have one, Mr. Senator, maybe a naive question because I wasn't at the committee meeting. And why is this committee being resolved?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u301	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u302	There was no... there was no discussion about why it was solved. It is simply the bill that provides for it, such a law is adopted by the Sejm. Well, there's probably a need for a new committee to work better. Well, maybe you can tell the minister now. There were probably reservations, but as I say... I can express my own personal opinion, but I do not want to express that view, because I am the committee's rapporteur. I could say, for example, that Mr. Lasek... that I have reservations about him. But, as I say, I am the committee's rapporteur and such subjects were not at the committee meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u303	Thank you. I have a question about certification. So far, I thought certification was meant to ensure a higher level of safety, and here I hear in your report, Senator, that this level of safety will be maintained. So what's the difference between a certified and uncertified aerodrome? I understand this is all about the weight of the plane and the number of passengers. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u304	Yeah, well... I mean, the situation is that the bill ensures that this new category of airports will have the same, let's say... will be provided with the same security as at exclusive airports, so...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u305	Okay, I'll ask the minister. I'll have him explain it to me. [[I didn't... it wasn't, so that's exactly what Minister...]] Okay, okay. Are there any more questions for the senator? I don't see any calls. Thank you, Senator. The bill was introduced by Members. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u306	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! This is a very necessary bill. And maybe I'll say a few words as part of the introduction before I go through the problems that the senators have been gracious to raise in their questions. And for each of these questions, I think I can answer thoroughly. Well, High Izbo, the Government of Law and Justice is undertaking very profound changes in Polish aviation. Today, the High House, the Senate, is discussing two laws, the so-called specialty we have just discussed, and this is the second law, a change in aviation law, which includes... In addition, we are preparing a law on changing the functioning of the Polish Air Navigation Agency, and we are also working on a law that will change the functioning of PPL, i.e. airports. We are therefore dealing with a very wide range of changes that will take place in Polish aviation. What are the directions, what are the objectives of these changes? Well, ladies and gentlemen, we want Polish aviation to have a new impetus for development, so that access to airports is much wider than ever before. This is a matter of this law today, which we are discussing. What is this fundamental change? Well, today so-called airports use the exclusive theoretically I stress that theoretically, because practice is different, better than theory They can only serve members of those organisations who manage these airports. So if it is in the hands of a given aeroclub, then only members of this aeroclub have the right to use these airports today. Of course, the practice is slightly different, and it is good that it is different, because according to the law behind the agreement you have to inform beforehand that someone who does not belong to this narrow group will want to use this airport, arrive, land or take off. The solutions contained in this Act abolish these restrictions, without prejudice to airport safety obligations. It is not enough that it is clear that if the airport obtains the status of a non-certified public airport, it must ensure that the relevant services will ensure the safety of the take-off, flight and operation of this airport in general, and this is also included in the bill. Therefore, these doubts have been clarified. The second aspect... back to the question from the previous point concerning the non-compliance with European Union law. Indeed, such a conclusion was made in the opinion of the Seym Legislative Office. But during the work in the Sejm committee we discussed this issue, the case was consulted and we received relevant documents from the Aviation Department in the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction and Civil Aviation Authority, i.e. the highest aviation authority in Poland, from which the documents showed that this solution was compatible with European law. So that there was a misunderstanding in the opinion of the Legal Office of the Sejm, and that was explained. That is the answer to that doubt. As far as the State Air Accident Investigation Commission case is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, we really do have all these solutions that we propose in aviation, they just need to change this institution. Like any institution, as in any composition from time to time, it needs to be changed and that is understandable. As the Seym changes, the Senate changes, the government changes. There is also a term of office, there are limitations of one kind or another, but there is also the will of the sovereign, or nation, who says that certain changes can be made. I'd also like to say... Please note that these changes are made in a mild way, adequate checks are provided, there are appropriate regulations that ensure, first of all, that the committee can operate continuously, that there will be no problems with any disruption of work. The Minister will be responsible for this because he will be responsible for the appointment of the chairman of the committee, he will also appoint or appoint alternates at the request of the new or present chairman. I would also like to tell you that I had the opportunity to cooperate for more than 8 months, and in fact I did not have the opportunity to cooperate with the present committee, because in my opinion this cooperation was simply wrong or it did not exist at all. And from that, you have to learn the lessons that... one of the results is this bill. I will also say that, in general, it seems unacceptable to see a situation where, on the one hand, the need for independence of the committee is spoken out loud and, on the other hand, the chairman of the committee engages in current policy, speaks on current political issues, participates in political actions or movements that are unambiguously... Well, like independence, it's both ways, and that's something you need to be clear about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u307	Thank you, Minister. You're asking Senator Florek a question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u308	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I'm not going to get involved in politics like you are. I mean those words about the sovereign that he has the rights and what he can do. If that's normal, humanly approach the case, or a member... Who can become a member of the committee? Well, this is a very important issue, because we always make certain demands for committee members. I'll quote it because it's short. A Member of the Commission may be a person who: point 1 is a Polish citizen and enjoys full public rights; point 2 • has full legal capacity; point 3 • has not been punished for a criminal offence committed intentionally; point 4 has a diploma of higher education. Well, Minister, no requirements for air research experience, no requirements... Not to mention, I don't know, a two-year internship or some function, etc. Because from these four points it appears that each of us... practically all of us can be members of the committee, mostly with absolutely no experience and no knowledge in this regard. Minister, how is it possible for members of the committee to be appointed without requiring any experience on safety investigation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u309	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u310	Mr Marshal, High Izbo, Mr Senator, if we are referring to the President, there are qualifications, including in the aviation sector, in the case of the Vice-President too. When it comes to members themselves, I'll say yes. Well, that will be the responsibility of those who will appoint them, and they will be offered, above all, by the chairman of the committee. I can't imagine that the chairman of the committee, a very important body for which he will personally be responsible 'Cause the president's responsibility is gonna be huge. It will appoint people without appropriate competence, including those substantive ones, not only formal ones, which the senator has mentioned. Here's what I'm gonna say. Today, High Izbo, we are dealing with such a situation that if we looked at the competence of people who can perform managerial functions or vice presidents in the Polish Air Navigation Agency, we would see that there are really 3 or 4 people in Poland who can perform these functions. Therefore, we do not want to lead to such a situation that there will simply be artificial restrictions, but, I stress, this will be the responsibility of the chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u311	Senator Augustine, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u312	Minister, the media have been speculating for some time now that you are going to appoint people to the committee who have already made themselves known to us from their impartiality, especially political ones. In quotation marks And who worked with Antoni Macierewicz in his team. [[But speculation...]] Can you confirm that and refer to these speculations? [[Speculation.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u313	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u314	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, Mr. Senator, as you said yourself, these are speculations. I came to the High House today to talk about the bill, its shape, its records and its consequences... [[That's what I'm talking about.]] ...and the media reports will not comment because it is not my role, nor do I think that my personal opinions, one way or the other, matter here. There is a specific bill, there are specific provisions, there is a specific will expressed in the draft submitted and we present it to the High House.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u315	Thank you. Senator Grodzki, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u316	Excuse me, Mr. Marshal, Minister, that I will return with some stubbornness to these certifications. Indeed, the differences between the provisions of current aviation law and the proposed amendment are not that large. But from the point of view of someone who practices a field based on facts, certifications, specializations... Well, you can't operate on a man unless you're specialized in surgery... I don't know if a complete waiver of certification means that it's probably not gonna be controlled anymore... At the time when the aerodrome is put into service, it may even be safe, but next year, when it will not be subject to any control or recertification, it will be risky. Is that the right move? Can I have your comment, please?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u317	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u318	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! Each airport in Poland is subject to control, oversight of the Civil Aviation Authority and nothing will change in this respect. There are parameters that airports have to meet. We're also talking about those airports that are already in operation today. and have been checked many times, their performance parameters have been verified many times. Let me put it this way: this is really so important a bill that she's gonna bring . about this aspect it is also worth mentioning, because so far we have not talked about this Very serious financial relief for aeroclubs, mainly for aeroclubs, because they are the main owners of these airports. Because a change in classification will allow you to exempt airports from property tax, which unfortunately would be very high in this case, many aeroclubs reported this problem. In conclusion, as far as safety is concerned, I really do not see the risks, because the Civil Aviation Authority will continue to carry out the proper control, supervise and check the safety, functionality of these airports. The financial aspect is support for these airports from the financial side, because this is an important tax exemption. Finally, the question of availability. Enabling access for this small aviation in conjunction with the Act on ultralight aircraft, which, I hope, will soon be in the High House, will allow us to give a really important impetus to development for Polish aviation.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u319	Thank you. I will allow further questions, but first of all I would like to inform you that the earlier announcement of the 13th item of the agenda on tomorrow is incorrect, because this paragraph 13th: the law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare and certain other laws, we will consider today, at a later date, because this is the next item, we will consider it later today. Let's get back to the questions. Senator Flork's question, please? Because he volunteered?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u320	It's just one more question, Minister. Why, then, if you're talking about so many important changes made to this project, was it a parliamentary project rather than a government project? Why didn't you prepare this as a government? Is this about... because I suspect that the dates of entry into force again, especially as far as the committee is concerned, were decisive. Why aren't you making such an important change as a government change? You're gonna have a parliamentary project.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u321	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u322	This is a very good parliamentary initiative. Members asked us what was our opinion on this subject. I will admit that the last aspect I was talking about in a hurry was decisive. It was tax stuff, financial stuff. Unfortunately, tax titles are issued and tax obligations increase every day. We would like tax obligations to be abolished as soon as possible in relation to these airports. And that was the main reason why Members with such energy came to the issue, for which I thank them very warmly now.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u323	Minister, I'd like to ask you a question about certification. I want you to answer if certification ensures greater safety or if it has nothing to do with safety.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u324	We can say that where... Depends on what level and what objectives we want to achieve through certification. Because, of course, we can set goals that are oversized, which is to raise the bar very high in a situation where there is really no need to achieve such high parameters. Please note, High Izbo, that in the case we were talking about, there is a very limited range of use by the mentioned aircraft, which in this Act must meet the parameters... And for this type of aircraft We're talking helicopters, paragliders, hang gliders, airplanes. The level of safety guaranteed in this project is absolutely sufficient. Until now, public airports had to comply with much higher parameters, because in theory they could be used by much larger aircraft. This limitation actually guarantees that the existing level of safety at these uncertified airports, which must meet the parameters, will be sufficient for these flying objects... sorry, for aircraft, because it is necessary to speak correctly to achieve this level of safety that I am talking about.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u325	Thank you. There are no more questions. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Józef Zając.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u326	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I think we wouldn't have a few questions to ask if the terminology had been properly used; we understand each other here with the Minister. Namely, it's about airport types. 'Cause here's a couple of things that I'm gonna say, you know, domestic names came up, and they turned us off, and at that point, We did an excavation. I'd like to say a few words as someone who runs an internal use airport. I think it'll be pretty convincing and show what's going on here. This bill, which is now being proposed, was missing for a number of reasons, namely... Maybe I'll give you some data first. The airport of internal use, as it is called, is only for those included in the group of users to whom I direct, has 14 000 air operations per year or even more. This will probably be the fourth in terms of the number of operations, of course small ships, airport in Poland. Here's another thing. France's acrobatic staff is currently practicing there. The heaviest helicopters of our army have already been brought in, perhaps 3 or 4 pieces, which will also be there to practice. There are air shows there, instead of the sub-Warsaw ones. They were extremely successful; there were over 17,000 people who participated in the shows. On the other hand, it is an airport, given its classification, slightly depreciated, despite the kind of operations that take place there. And when someone wants to come to us Or when we want to go somewhere, we have to agree everything, as if it started from the beginning. That's the exclusive of this airport. As far as certification matters are concerned, I'd be the one to turn this thing off. It is checked by committees practically every week due to the number of operations carried out there. But this isn't about certification, it's about airport equipment. This differs, according to the current classification, from an internal use airport to a public service airport. And what does a public airport have to have? So he has to have all the service he has. Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, There's no difference. I think I'm gonna be the beneficiary, who knows or not the first one, of this bill, because we're gonna miss it a lot. Next case. It must be present e.g. Fire department. The fire department must be present 24 hours a day at the expense of the airport owner. There must be briefings for those who wish to fly to this airport, so we must maintain the Border Guard. Now you realize what the difference is. The classification that has been in place so far has led to many airports, just those airclubs, some very large ones, e.g. Mielec, entered a group of internal use airports. When we fly over some airports known from the past, e.g. White Podlaska, where is the longest runway in Poland, a huge airport... Unfortunately, I think it's out of classification at the moment. And that's where the airport dog is buried. The point is to introduce public use airports without certification, without certification of those requirements that I mentioned here recently. If something like this moves in, which is, for example. in the Czech Republic... When we fly over the Czech Republic, you can see this effect, a lot of airports, which we can only dream of. I don't know if we have at least 1/5 or 1/10 of the number of airports the Czechs have, and we're extremely embarrassed by the regulations. That's why I think it really is. In common sense, even in a quick vote, this type of airport should be introduced in order to take aircraft carrying up to 20 people so that they can be carried out. Very often I happen to have a flight procedure with several or a dozen people out there, to another airport, and it can't be done right away because you need special permission, special permission. And that's what's being done by this classification that we're missing by classifying an airport for public use without certification. Here, of course, as I understand it, the case of aeroclubs is bowing down. It's about time, because these airports are slowly starting to die, they're turning into pastures or grassy areas. I used to land at an airport in Mielec and I didn't even know where I was because the grass was almost three feet high. All because the classification that exists so far closed down the possibility of conducting many air operations that could be performed there, and this is an excellent airport. Of course, I understand that this bill will exempt you from taxes on the ground of an aeroclub. We also pay such a tax for 50 hectare airport, which we use only for the training of pilots at our university, over 120,000 a year. Of course, that money has to come from the ministry. That's how we generate turnover. So that so many technical comments. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u327	Thank you very much, Senator. Now, Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u328	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm sure this bill is needed. Indeed, making airclub airports available to third parties that can use these airports is a positive thing. I think this bill is needed. But it so happens that in a whole range of laws, some additional elements are attached to the laws needed, e.g. resignation from competitions for posts, e.g. a change in the competition committees whereby the government party receives additional, one or two judges in the competition committees. Such tactics are applied. In this case, this tactic has been applied to a much more serious case. When amending the law, the aviation law is being abolished. State Air Accident Investigation Commission. At the same time, the requirements for persons to participate in very specific and knowledge-intensive committee work are being reduced. The rule is that you have to investigate air accidents for three years. This actually fits with the former team of Macierewicz, so I understand that Mr Binienda for Mr Lask... that this exchange will probably take place. Mr. Minister said And for that, I sincerely thank him. After the elections decided by the sovereign, we also change the committees investigating accidents, air accidents... Are there other accidents, too? If you were to accept such a rule, Okay, I get it. All other accident investigation committees, including railway, should be amended, but you propose that the current aviation accident investigation committee be terminated in this law. That makes me object to this bill. A situation in which, by the way, as if from behind the coal, such changes are being made is not good, because this is not an ordinary committee. And she was investigating an unusual accident, investigating a Smolensk disaster. At the moment, you are proposing that political criteria be applied to the evaluation of this committee. I understand the substantive criteria, but the criteria... the justification that, after the elections in which the sovereign has spoken, we change the substantive committee is a clear indication to me of the political criteria of this change. You're shutting down this committee. Why? I didn't ask about the substance criteria, because if I asked about the substance, I probably wouldn't have gotten an answer. The Smolensk disaster was a shock to everyone, it was a terrible disaster. But what does that mean? Probably the new committee in the new squad will be investigating this disaster from the beginning. I think even if they examine her and the next one, they'll come to the same conclusions as the Chick Committee. Besides, as I say, it is not a good habit to make such changes under the cover of some other scope of substantive amendment of the law. I would like to point out that it is visible. And I'm surprised you're making that kind of change. For me, this change has no justification except what the Minister said was that there were elections, so we're changing the committee. If the findings are contested, this must be justified after fasting and said: yes, we do not like them, we question the reasons, this committee has not done its work well and fairly, and therefore we propose changes. Anyway, I would like to remind you that these kind of signals that there will be changes, that this committee will be cancelled, were earlier. In fact, it will be the only implementation of the announcements concerning the Smolensk disaster, because after the PiS took over the power, no wreckage was brought in, no international commission was created, and such announcements were made. So only this one announcement, the chick's cancellation and the change of commission, is realized. I, Minister, consider it That's what I'm saying again. For a serious mistake, because it is very possible that other plane crashes will occur in addition to the disaster that has happened. Thus, the principle of knowledge of things, specialization in aviation disaster research is very important. It's not enough just flying a passenger plane or watching this plane from the ground, which is from the outside. It's not enough for this study to be done honestly by such a committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u329	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u330	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I largely agree with what you said to the marshal, but some things have to be called by name. This change is a standard that we observe: under the coat of substantive change... There's also an airport in Pile, where I come from, and there's no doubt the part that doesn't make it so overly demanding, etc., that's good news for the aeroclub. But the state, as you normally do, is adding a part that's supposed to be used for staff change. And that's what the marshal was talking about. But I want to be clear: this bill, this change is important to the PiS, politically important. Not just because you say we've come to power and we have the right to change the power of some institution. No, today there is a change that aims to implement a long-established and implemented political plan in which he plays with the Smolensk disaster, which is a terrible disaster resulting from a confluence of many factors, including the President's inaction, who died and who had the right and the duty to stop this tragedy... I ignore the question of whether it was wise to take all these people aboard one plane. But the idea is to build division, build political support and build the myth of Lech Kaczyński. That's why it's not an ordinary bill. This is a law that has an absolutely political dimension squared. This isn't just a change. There is, however, something that I think is a different than political danger here. Indeed, in trying to implement your political plan, you are trying to so much lower the requirements for the members of the State Air Accident Investigation Commission that you are putting yourself at risk of losing any authority now. 'Cause if it's gonna be a sausage guy, a soda guy, a spray smoke guy, God knows what else, electromagnetic weapons, etc., congratulations on the results. But that's not the point. It's about having a second report, and somebody believe what they want. For this division to last forever and ever. This is a game. What I'm saying is that this committee that was, in my opinion... I don't know if she's done anything wrong. I don't think there are people like that. But as far as I know myself, it turns out that in the new hand I could also be a member of the committee, why not As far as I was able to know, I believe that it correctly identified the causes of the disaster. Numerous causes. And she didn't talk as hard as I did, not even about President Kaczyński's responsibility to avoid political irritation. [[What responsibility?]] Therefore, it is worth to mention from this speaker that I do not know if there will be another opportunity to give thanks to people who worked in such difficult conditions and presented a report to the Poles. Most Poles fortunately believe in this report, trust their work. I hope that the composition of the next committee will not at least be embarrassing. [[Maybe you'll be on this committee.]] Please? [[Why don't we offer you?]] Well, Mr. Senator, I would have met the criteria. They're so set up, I'd even fulfill them. That's what I'm talking about, Mr. Senator. I'm talking to Senator Rooster. That these standards have been so low that you, Mr. Senator, and I could be members of this committee and express our views, even though we are not professionals. I would just like to say, in the title, so to speak, chronicle, something that is not a discovery here, is obvious from start to finish. Well, it has to be said here, with such an obligation to speak honestly about the fact that it is not only political considerations resulting from elections, but also the political plan that pushes the bill to be passed in the part where the criteria for working in the State Air Accident Investigation Commission are completely lowered, while everywhere in the world the highest requirements are possible. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u331	Thank you, Senator. [[Except MAK.]] [[Right. And you're in.]] [[Stop commenting.]] Please take the floor of Senator Robert Dowhan... [[Except MAK.]] [[Right. And you're in.]] [[Stop commenting.]] Don't discuss it in the courtroom.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u332	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, as you can see, this bill raises a lot of controversy, albeit unnecessary, because it would be good for this law to be strictly technical. And I want to tell you, Minister, it's a good thing that this bill comes into force. I'm talking about the first part, and I don't want to talk about the second part. I'm not an expert in aviation law, although I once completed a flight course, I've piloted a plane several times, but I don't feel able to speak today about the plane crashes in which people died. I'm a Green Mountain citizen with two airports. One It's just that I don't know if I'm It is located in Babimost, it has recently been equipped with ILS and is a backup airport for Poznań. I know there's been calls going on right now to make it a spare airport for Berlin, because the airport there is closed at night. In addition, Natovsky airplanes have been landing there lately there has been a very large operation, a lot of equipment has been brought to Poland. This airport has been taken over as cohabitant property, today serves inhabitants of Lubuskie voivodship and not only. I hope that the agreement will be extended and this airport, which has put a lot of resources into it, thanks, among others. This law will continue to function. And the other airport is in Stick. At present, Pleps is already a district of Zielona Góra. A grassy airport that has served as a tourist airport for many years. This airport has a history, Minister. They even made a film about the famous escapes from this airport because people tried to get behind the iron curtain and get away from the commune and several such actions succeeded. One of them was carried out by pilots I met and who live in Australia today. They had the famous corner take the jumpers for exercise, but instead they took their families. And the kids were sitting with their noses glued to the windshield so the military wouldn't shoot down the plane. This plane landed safely on Tempelhof in Berlin, even though it was supposed to land on Schönefeld. Somehow he managed to get over the rooftops on fuel scraps. Tempelhof airport in the centre of Berlin It's closed today, and we know what it used to be for. I mean the help of the Allies for Berlin, which was surrounded by a wall. This bill will certainly help such small airports as the airports mentioned here by a colleague, Senator Józef Zając, because there really are a lot of events at this airport. Many events related not only to airplanes, which are becoming more and more popular. Well, with what's in the Czech Republic, we're still a lot short, but I wouldn't be convinced... When I trained in flying, these courses were much cheaper in the Czech Republic and could be done faster. But I don't think there was enough technical training going on, and a lot of people who just wanted to have a diploma always flew with the pilot, choosing such an alternative faster training. And our Polish trainings have always been very good, they have always been precise, although they have lasted a long time, but it is worth taking more time, for example, to ensure safety first of all, because most often you fly yourself. But I would like to confirm what my colleague Senator Józef Zając said that today aviation is becoming very fashionable. More and more Poles can afford to play in flying. This is an alternative. And besides what we talked about, apart from ordinary planes, there's a lot of parties... They're paragliding, and lately, I have to brag about a helicopter rally in Green Mountain at this normal airport. And it works, it also drives the economy, it also gives opportunities to our bets, even in Mielec, and I hope that this will also create opportunities... Today, a 50-hectare airport like this has to pay, like you said, 100,000 taxes. I don't know if it's much or little, because 50 hectares in different cities are different... I'm not sure, but I think any local government may also be exempt from tax. I'm not sure. I know that sometimes it seemed strange what we heard, which means that the airport has to pay tax, just as it is strange that the golf course is also taxed today, but entrepreneurs have to pay the tax as normally as they pay the business. But, Minister, thank you for this bill. It is a pity that it is actually divided into two parts and that the senators have a dilemma... But it's a good thing this bill comes into force. So that thank you, I'll vote for her. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u333	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Piotr Flork.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u334	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Although I am a member of the Committee on Infrastructure, I was not at a committee meeting due to its convergence with the meeting of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration And important topics were also discussed there. That is why I would like to say at this point that I do not agree with certain thesis put forward here. One fundamental point: I mean what I've already signaled, what I've said about committee members, who can become committee members. Well, it turns out that there is one country, Minister, in which there are no conditions as to who might be a member of such a committee. From what I've been able to find out and determine, this is Russia. There are no such conditions. On the other hand, the conditions that we have in the amendment of the law are, of course, general... And I was terrified when you offered: Senator Mieczysław Augustyn may also be a member of this committee. It scared me. I'm protesting, and I don't think you have any qualifications, Senator. You don't have any qualifications to be a committee member! [[Talking in the O.R.]] I absolutely disagree with that. [[He flew a plane once.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Just because he was on a plane doesn't entitle him to be a member of this committee. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result, I quickly wrote an amendment to the Law amending the Law on Air Law, precisely to this article. 1. It's about art, exactly. Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 12, where we have mentioned that a member of the committee may be a person who: paragraph. 1 is a Polish citizen and enjoys full public rights; paragraph. It has full legal capacity; paragraph 2. No criminal offence committed intentionally has been punishable; paragraph 3. He has a degree in higher education. These are the conditions that the senator meets. But I now, Mr. Senator, propose an amendment: point 5 has a minimum of two years of experience in the field of safety investigation. And you, Senator, will not fulfill that condition. I'm making this amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u335	I accept the amendment, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u336	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to remind you that the law does not determine who will be a member of the State Commission for the Investigation of Aviation Accidents in terms of whether he had previously dealt with the investigation of the Smolensk disaster or not, to what extent he dealt with it, where he was, when this disaster happened, and then when he tried to explain in various ways the reasons for it. This law is intended to ensure that the commission under the new conditions of operation of Polish aviation, which I stress, because after the entry into force of these laws, which I mentioned here, will be completely new conditions for the operation of Polish aviation, can function better, more efficient and more efficient than ever before. For 8 months I had the opportunity to observe, but unfortunately from afar, because Mr President was not gracious to me as a minister, who is formally subject, at least organisationally, even to come and talk about the work of his subcommittee. I don't know if it's the right behavior of the head of a very important public institution, that even organizational matters weren't gracious to talk to his organizational boss. Because the committee is independent. If anyone says I'm in any way... I'm also saying this to Senator Borusewicz. If you are able to prove that during these eight months the current government has in any way affected the functioning of the State Commission for the Investigation of Aviation Accidents under the current leadership, please say so today. [[Of course.]] Tell me, Senator, how it affected you. [[The prosecution.]] And so... [[No, no, that's a rhetorical expression. The discussion is over.]] Yes, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, in the same way, the government will not influence the functioning of the committee in the form that will emerge from this law. We will maintain the same independence of this body. I think that's actually the most important statement. As regards the qualifications of the High Izbo, the qualifications of the President are clearly defined, the qualifications of the Vice-Presidents are clearly defined, as are the responsibilities of those responsible for this committee. Of course, I could say here that it is not excluded that Mr Maciej Lasek will continue to be Vice-President. I don't get into it, it's the Minister's will. I'm not here for this. I am presenting a bill that can improve the functioning of this committee and can increase its independence, I stress, independence, because if it is written in the current law that the committee is pursuing the policy of the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction, so that we can Today they read, it is in a project that has been prepared that there is no such record, and so the independence of the committee is emphasized. Why does this bill have two parts? High Izbo, also as a senator many times, as a Member, I was not very able to understand how it is that 2 projects of the same law are going, are carried out in parallel instead of combining them. They were so different... Here is the 1st Act, the Law of the Air. We are making such or other substantive changes, the discussion is not limited, nor is there anything limited about the possibility of submitting amendments. Whether this would be 2 laws, whether it is 1 law, it is the same right to debate and the same right to make amendments, and finally the same right to adopt or reject the law. There's no difference here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u337	Thank you, Minister. As a legislative proposal has been tabled, I ask the Infrastructure Commission to respond to the proposal presented and to prepare a report. Oh, I still have to tell you who filed the application. I would like to inform you that you have submitted a legislative proposal in writing to Senator Piotr Florek. Then I'll say it again. As a legislative proposal has been tabled, I ask the Infrastructure Commission to respond to the proposal presented and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. The texts of the Act are contained in print No 250 and the report of the committee In print No 250 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Health, Senator Bogusława Orzechowska, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u338	At the meeting of the Joint Committee on Health and the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration, the law on amending the Law on the provision of public-funded health care and certain other laws was considered. The purpose and subject of this bill... The aim of the revision is to introduce regulations to ensure a transparent process of issuing opinions on the purpose of investment, which will be crucial for the development of health protection. The legislator aims to ensure that opinions are issued on the basis of reasonable grounds and thus clearly respond to existing health needs. As a result, the proposed rules are intended to ensure that the local oversupply of health services is avoided by creating inadequate resources in relation to the needs of recipients in the area concerned. The basic amendments were adopted by the Sejm on 21 July 2016 and are contained in the Act of 27 August 2004 on public-funded healthcare provision. The legislator prefers opinions on the purpose of investment in the voivodship to take into account maps of health needs of regional or nationwide maps, depending on medical entities, priorities for regional health policy and data from the register of entities performing medical activities. In order to give an opinion on the purpose of the investment by the voivodship, the law also takes the need to consult the director of the voivodship branch of the NFZ, and when it is the responsibility of the Minister responsible for Health to issue an opinion on the purpose of the investment, it is necessary to consult the President of the NFZ. It also introduces a deadline for setting priorities for regional health policy. The previous law stated that the opinion was issued in the form of an administrative decision. The current amendment amends the way in which an opinion is issued on the purpose of the investment, both in the part concerning the procedure and the reasons for the opinion. At the same time, the Act excludes the obligation to issue opinions on the purpose of certain individuals, such as a rescue unit or a trauma centre. The amendment introduces strict rules on the request for an opinion. One of the requirements set out in the Act becomes the completion of the form of the Investment Proposal Assessment Instrument in the Health Sector, IOWISZ, which is an important tool in this procedure. A scoring system shall be used to assess the purpose of the investment in the IOWISZ form. Each entity involved in the procedure with regard to its jurisdiction shall complete this form by awarding points for the fulfilment of the individual criteria. Applications are to be dealt with in the order of impact. An opinion on the appropriateness of the investment will be issued within 45 days of the date on which the application is submitted. The amendments introduced in the Act of 28 April 2011 on the Health Information System are a consequence of the provisions adopted in the Law on the provision of public-funded health care, the introduction of IOWISZ as a field ICT system. The law shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication. There have been a number of discussions, and at the end of the discussion, a proposal was made to adopt the law without amendments, 14 senators voted in favour, 6 abstentions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u339	Thank you, Senator Rapporteur. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. [[Voice from the room: Maybe me.]] I can see that. Senator Joseph Hare first. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u340	Mr Marshal, Senator, the National Health Fund plays a significant role in the concept of financing investments in the health services market presented. What direction is the amendment of the provisions proposed by this Act in the event of the liquidation of the NFZ being considered? And second question. The law shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication. My doubts are related to the preparation of voivodships for issuing opinions on the purpose of investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u341	The second point was not discussed, and as far as the first point is concerned, the liquidation of the National Health Fund is under consideration and I think that is my opinion. The first of the stages is the acquisition by the voivodship boards... by the voivodship agendas, by the voivodship departments of how a medical service will be contracted in a given voivodship.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u342	Thank you. Senator Augustin's question, please. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u343	Senator, at what stage is the issue of building maps of health needs, which are an essential element in determining the purpose of the investment by the voivode? Since the Act enters into force on the day following the day of its announcement, so very quickly, I would like to make sure Whether these maps are already everywhere, or will they be by then. What's it like?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u344	This was not the subject of our discussions, but I think the Minister is able to answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u345	Thank you. Since there is an announcement of the liquidation of the National Fund, I would like to ask whether this is a return to the budget system in the health care that was.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u346	That wasn't discussed either.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u347	It wasn't. Thank you. I don't see any more questions. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Health has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Minister Radziwiłł points to Minister Krzysztof Łanda, so I would ask that the Deputy Minister speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the Government.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u348	(PL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo! Dear Minister, Let me therefore first answer the questions raised by the rapporteur's senator and then try to give a general overview of this law from the health department's point of view. In answer to the first question, I would like to say this: if the NFZ as a payer is liquidated, then its name will automatically be replaced by other terms in all legal acts, so this is automatic. As far as the pace of work is concerned, it must indeed be very high, we must proceed quickly, because according to the law in force from 1 July simply applicants can submit applications, which must be considered, to finance such infrastructure or other investment projects. Therefore, I would like to ask you that since 1 July de facto some have already submitted these proposals, and that is why the Act states that all these applications which have been submitted until the entry into force of this law will be cancelled, all these proposals will have to collide with IOWISZ, i.e. the Investment Proposal Assessment Instrument in the Health Sector, and only then will they be dealt with. First of all, the applicant must prepare his assessments and answer to the criteria, then also the Regional Branch of the National Health Fund, then the Regional Health Department. Vojewóda gives an opinion about the purpose of the investment. At what stage is the creation of maps of health needs? Ladies and gentlemen, maps of health needs are implemented according to the timetable. I took over the design of health needs maps in the health department in the second half of January. I would remind you that this was a high-risk project because the European Commission had a lot of comments about us. Comments were also submitted by regions, voivodships, marshals and voivodships. They said they weren't involved in these maps. In turn, the European Commission has asked us to explain how maps of health needs, which are huge collections of demographic, epidemiological, human resources and infrastructure data, will translate into investment plans, which in turn involves dividing Union funds into infrastructure. Ladies and gentlemen, this project, thanks to the IOWISZ instrument, the Investment Proposal Assessment Instrument in the Health Sector, consumes information from maps, information from regional health policy priorities developed by voivodships and other additional information. He's making us numerically... It is a tool to assist the decision of the voivode. Thanks to IOWISZ, we achieve a much higher level of transparency and a much higher level of rationality of decisions. Therefore, thanks to IOWISZ, this project is also much more acceptable to the European Commission. As you can see, the European Commission has no objections to us at the moment. She just didn't know how to use the map information and translate it into decisions or opinions about purpose and therefore investments. At the moment, there is no such risk because there has been a decision support tool that ensures high repeatability and a much higher level of rationality. Let me remind you of one more very important thing. The criteria of IOWISZ respond to the European Commission's demands, as well as to... Some of these questions correspond to the health policy priorities of the Minister of Health, and questions 31, 32 and 33 correspond to the development policy priorities of the State, so they fit in with the so-called. Moravian plan. With these questions, we'll be able to put a barrier to the entrance. If any investment proposal of a project, an idea, does not get a minimum IOWISZ score, then it will not be possible to submit a proposal at all, because this project is simply not good for Poland. The Minister for Health is of the opinion that it is better not to use EU money than to use it badly. And this is a lot of money, a lot of resources that could hurt Poland. Thanks to IWIEV... We want these proposals to be passed and implemented, which simply fall within the priorities of the European Commission, into the priorities of health policy and state development policy. Maps of cardiological and oncology health needs have therefore been received by the European Commission. EU maps, as planned by the previous government I think that thanks to IOWISZ, too, at the end of April, 30 April, they were published and adopted by the European Commission. So we're going according to schedule. Maps on outpatient care and basic healthcare are currently under development. They'll be ready, according to schedule, at the end of December. Let's hope they're also gonna... [[What about the hospital? Excuse me...]] Hospital's ready. April 30th was... Hospitalisation has been received, adopted by the European Commission. Thanks to the fact that we have these maps and we have priorities for regional health policy... information from these two sources comes into IOWISZ and translates into investment decisions, investment plans in regions. The question is, are we moving on to the budget system... This is obviously not the bill. This law only applies to investment plans. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe this has been a tool that has been expected for many years. It is not that it eliminates the human factor when making decisions, no. But, ladies and gentlemen, anyone applying for an investment in the health sector must collide with IOWISH. The point is, is it really coming out of the priorities I was talking about? Then, as I say, it is additionally subject to verification by the fund's branches. If they make a difference in score, they have to justify any change. Thus, the transparency of the process is much higher. Then the voivode can finally change the score, but each time it has to justify why it changes. But, ladies and gentlemen, I'm just finishing my statement, and I'm just going to say one more thing I think IOWISZ has a different function and it's much more important than just as an entry barrier for investment applications. Well, ladies and gentlemen, he is immediately thought of as an ICT tool. So here's the computer program, ready to be posted on the website. So that he will be available to all those who think about investing in the health sector. I think that many people do not know whether their ideas are part of health policy, state development policy and the policy or priorities of the European Commission. If they have this tool on their websites, they'll crash their ideas... check the score for their idea... I think if they get a big score, they'll be encouraged to work on the proposals and submit them. And we want the best possible conclusions to be realized. Because Polish health care, Polish economy needs the money, we want to spend it. But we want to spend it well. Once again, if they were to be badly spent, it would be better not to be published at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u349	Thank you, Minister. Stay a while longer, because the senators can now report from a place of no more than a minute of inquiry to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. There are no volunteers. I'd like to ask the question. Minister, do you know that a map of health needs was made by Minister Balicki and operated for a year? And I'm asking if you're reaching for it. Because it was a pretty big and hard job.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u350	Mr President, I would like to remind you that the draft map of health needs has already been launched for the previous government. It is implemented on the basis of Policy paper and Action plan, which were negotiated between the European Commission and the Polish Government. So that, I think, Mr Balicki's work has certainly not been in vain, they are taken into account in the development of individual solutions and individual maps. But, as I say, the whole project is implemented in accordance with the agreement that was made for the previous team, between the Polish government and the European Commission. And, like a speech, we're going according to schedule right now, as planned.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u351	Only Balicki was not the minister of the previous government, he was a minister in 2001, as I recall. So I'm just suggesting that you take a look at it, maybe something positive will come out of it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u352	Mr President, there are many different documents that collect information similar to mapping health needs, including: It's a work done in the days of Minister Balicki. They are all, so to speak, consumed in IOWISH and translated into investment plans in the health sector.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u353	Thank you. Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u354	Mr. Marshal, Minister, when is the voivode and when does the Minister give an opinion on the purpose of the investment? I am particularly concerned with the Minister, about what kind of health care facilities his opinion will be.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u355	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u356	Well, all the measures that are EU funds as part of the draft map of health needs... Opinions will be issued here on the appropriateness of the proposals in the various regions. The Minister of Health is then an institution of appeal, i.e. if someone does not agree with this opinion, then of course the Minister of Health will be an institution of appeal. The Minister of Health will certainly give an opinion on all investments in the institutions whose body is the Minister of Health. If they request investment, then the Minister of Health will give the opinion. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u357	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Grodzki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u358	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, I have a question. Because according to the current regulations, the voivodship also gives this opinion, consults with the voivodship's health advice, and all these regulations have been further tightened up recently, as on 30 June 2016 IOWISZ, these 34 questions are a valuable tool, although I do not necessarily agree with the weight assigned to each of the questions, because improving the patient's conditions is estimated to be 0.2 or 0.3. And the less important factors, I think, are 1.0. But do we need that much regulation in a situation where the system, and recently modified one, exists? Please do not answer in the spirit of casuistics, because the fact that money has been spent badly somewhere, probably has happened, has happened and will happen. I'm talking about the essence of things.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u359	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u360	Well, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, as regards the importance of the points and the model used in IOWISZ, I remind you that the regulation is currently being processed, it is in an external consultation, until 11 August can still be made comments. The Act will provide the Health Minister with the legal basis for introducing tools that increase transparency and increase the level of rationality of opinions issued. Opinions aren't... Sorry, it is, of course, possible from 30 June, to issue them, in accordance with the law in force, still pending for the previous parliament. However, ladies and gentlemen, the question arises... And that's the basic problem I'm dealing with. I would like to remind you that in January, February, March, when the work on IOWISZ started, on this instrument, the European Commission, which sent its representatives, made numerous and serious comments to us. She spoke very clearly: if we have maps of health needs, which contain a collection of epidemiological, demographic, human resources and infrastructure information, but these are huge documents for each region, for each voivodship, one thousand each 300, 1 thousand 200, 1 thousand 500 pages, like anyone who's an applicant or a voivode who's supposed to give an opinion of purpose. In fact, the bill was created for the previous government and the previous parliament to consume this information? In addition, the European Commission has said: there will be priorities for regional health policy, but how it is to play all this so that we know that the funds we spend on health care in Poland, on infrastructure development, on investment... How can we make sure that they are issued in a transparent and rational manner? I told you right away that IOVISZ does not eliminate the human factor. IOWISZ is a tool for supporting decisions taken by the voivodship, ensuring that these decisions are more rational and transparent and satisfying to the European Commission. It is the missing fifth element, the missing element of the whole puzzle: maps of health needs, regional priorities, other information held by the NFZ and voivodeships, but also the applicants themselves, and ensures that this information will be consumed, that transparency, rationality will be much greater than when this tool was not. Secondly, this tool ensures, as I say, the inclusion and submission of proposals and opinions on the purpose of the priorities of the European Commission, the priorities of the Minister of Health in terms of health policy, and the priorities of the development of the Polish economy. This is his, this tool, the target. But, as I say, the tool itself will be the subject of an external consultation within the framework of the contested regulation.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u361	Thank you, Minister. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u362	Thank you very much, Minister, for these explanations. I don't want to get deeply into the discussion, because time may be chasing us a little bit, but I have the impression that maybe this valuable instrument, which is IOWISZ, was enough to give the voivodships through a regulation to use it to standardize their opinions, and not to change the whole law. Now I would like to move on to another subject. For the absence of marshals in the evaluation of projects. I ignore the fact that the marshals have more than 400 hospitals in their power. The Minister has institutes, clinics, clinical hospitals, an equally important part of the system, and in relation to his hospitals, the Minister not only participates in issuing decisions, but is even an appeal body, and the marshals are excluded from this at all. I ask a little about this in the context of yesterday's Marshals' Convention, which took place in Szczecin, where the Marshals called for increased expenditure on health protection. It seems to me that including marshals in this cascade process, as the Minister was graciously calling it, will not be a sin and will contribute to its improvement.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u363	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u364	(PL) Madam President, I would like to ask you a few High Izbo! Minister! First, however, I will start with this thread, which has already been touched. Well, I wouldn't suggest that this would be just a tool to help the voivodship's decision. I have already mentioned that IOVISZ has an additional aspect, i.e. it is intended to encourage applicants as well. Also those who think today: no, I have an idea, but he probably doesn't fit into health priorities or development priorities. No, let someone like that see this tool, see what score he gets. If he gets a big score, he'll be extremely encouraged. Secondly, as we have said, this cascade assessment is still coming in. From this cascade assessment the marshals were removed during the government's work, perhaps at the stage of the Standing Committee. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the question is why aren't the marshals and the minister? I'll answer that question right away. Well, the marshals are an organ that creates many providers, many of them. And in my opinion, they do have an immanent conflict of interest. If they'd been involved in this cascade, you'd have guessed. It's a lot of probabilities. That they could favour their hospitals or their healthcare providers, but also, which is an even more important argument, they could discriminate against all others competing with hospitals or marshals. As for the Minister of Health, the Minister of Health does not have this problem because he operates at a completely different level. Let's say, in a different segment of the market at all. Because it gives opinions to institutes and universities. They're not in competition with practically any other... They're about... We're thinking of introducing reference levels. So here we're talking about hospitals with the highest reference level. So I don't think there's anything to say about a conflict of interest here. [[That's a short one, Mrs. Marshal. One last question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u365	But just a little bit, Mr. Senator, 'cause there's another one of you waiting to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u366	Yeah, I'm sorry. Minister, this thesis would probably be true if the Marshal had a decision-making role here. But this decision remains in the hands of the voivode. You know, it's kind of weird if the owner's off the case where they decide what he's supposed to do. That is why I will table an amendment in the discussion. I don't expect the marshal to be a determining factor here, but he should, in my opinion, be involved in the decision-making process.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u367	I mean... If I may, it's just one sentence... The Marshals are de facto included in the decision. But IOWISZ is only a barrier to entry, and then, in the context of the competition proceedings, the marshals of course participate in it. So here I don't see any contradictions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u368	Thank you very much. And there you go, Senator Dorota Czudowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u369	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I will ask the same question that I asked yesterday at the committee meeting so that the other senators can hear the answer. How much time does it take for a professional to fill out the IOWISZ form?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u370	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u371	High Izbo, as I say, this tool was created by a team appointed by the Minister of Health to translate information from maps of health needs and these priorities into investment plans. We saw that this element was missing. Therefore, the Minister of Health has appointed specialists, few specialists in Poland from so-called. quality indicators. I think that on the fingers of two hands you can count specialists in Poland who do this. We've managed to gather them here. If these are maps of health needs, which are maps, then we call them robotic cartographers. So cartographers worked on it for a few months and also an element... It was not only about developing criteria, which are written in the form of questions to IOWISZ, along with the instructions of the service, how it should be done, but also, of course, the importance and pattern, a rather complicated pattern, a very well thought out pattern. This pattern was created on the basis of more than 70 so-called. design cards, with already completed projects in the previous perspective. And, ladies and gentlemen, as a result of this, the calculations were obviously ongoing, the adjustments were permanent, and the whole machinery was behind them... But in fact, there was one rule to all this work. This must be a simple tool to use. And I have to tell you that I am convinced that in time from, say, 40 minutes to a maximum of 2 hours you can fill IOWISH on the basis of a specific investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u372	Thank you very much. And Senator Piotr Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u373	Minister, actually my predecessor has already asked about these matters, but once again I would like to emphasise, as regards the marshal, that he should be in this decision-making process. I've been councillor of the voivodship sejm for a few years, and I know what kind of knowledge the marshal has, what kind of facilities he has, what kind of hospitals he has. I've also been a voivode recently, so I know what kind of knowledge the voivod has. With this mapping of needs, etc. It's a different matter, and you're right, Minister, to explain it all. But it's missing, and I'm pretty sure it's gonna be treated as a charge. This decision-making marshal who has knowledge has a health department and doesn't seem to... The decision, i.e. this opinion of purposefulness, and yes, in the end, is issued by the voivode. So the omission of the marshal in this process is really not good and I am convinced that you will hear about it many times more, the marshals will probably protest in this regard. So we should think about it... I understand that IOWISZ is a great program, probably so that if this data is backed up and collected, it will be a great material to give an opinion on purpose, but it would be good for everyone to be able to comment in this decision-making process concerning the opinion. And here the National Health Fund, as you said, may speak in this cascade assessment, the voivode may also speak, the Minister of Health, as far as its institutions, its units are concerned, may also speak, and the Marshal does not have the opportunity to do so. So I would simply, well, I would advise you, Minister, to think again, if such an amendment is, do you really not change something in this regard, because it will certainly be a multiple charge raised.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u374	I answer, High Izbo. Firstly, as I said, the marshals then participate in the competition procedure, IOWISZ is only an entry barrier. Secondly, I must tell you that the marshals were indeed in the project of this IOWISZ, in the earlier version of the working law, they were placed in this cascade immediately after the NFZ. But, ladies and gentlemen, there were many letters coming to us from the marshals who said they didn't want to participate, that they didn't have the strength, they didn't have the employees at all, why we forced them to participate in this assessment. This has indeed changed, because when they were voted out of this cascade within the Committee of the Permanent Council of Ministers, then letters began to come to us that they would very much like and wonder that they did not participate in it at all. But, ladies and gentlemen, I share the government's position. We've never thought this through with cartographers before. In my opinion, the marshals have a significant conflict of interest, not to be eliminated, and I believe that the government's position in this respect is right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u375	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u376	Mrs. Marshal, Minister, I think the same thing as the Marshals could be for the old men. Because the counties have hospitals, too, and they have some investments. And if they're not here and if the marshals aren't here, then... I think it would be fair enough... That's what I'm gonna say when you ask for marshals, you'd have to ask for old men as well. Would you agree with my reasoning?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u377	However, we have planned this cascade evaluation in a slightly different way, so to speak, a series. I thank you for your attention, but, I'll say again, I'm staying at my post. I think the government's position here is correct. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u378	Thank you very much. Now, right? Thank you very much. There are no further questions for the Minister. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I'd like to speak with Senator Tomasz Grodzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u379	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! In health care, reforms are evolutionary. And that's definitely a better approach than making a revolution. The establishment of a tool in the form of IOWISZ is certainly an evolutionary step that will help clarify the investment situation and will allow, certainly not 100% , but to a large extent avoid the so-called. investments that have not been made. Although it must be realized that an investment that is not financially viable sometimes means an investment that has been hit in terms of health. Because patients don't see whether the hospital is in debt or generating a positive result. Because, as we all know, in the monopolistic system of the NFZ, in a rather rigid valuation of procedures, it's not just the finances that determine the success of the hospital. There are hospital profiles where the best director or manager can't balance them, and there are specialist hospitals whose disciplines are actually well priced, and such hospitals usually don't turn out so bad. But it's a digression. I'm going back to Iowa. I don't want to dwell on the justification, but I think we need to include the marshals in this useful tool, otherwise we already create a potential conflict in the process. I agree with my colleague, the speaker, the Senator of the PiS, that it may be worth joining the elders as well. If a colleague wishes, we can make such an amendment together. Imagine, however, that the entire steering committee, or whatever it is called, in the voivodeship, after the survey IOWISH will make one or another decisions, and the marshal will say: well, but my plans are different, I didn't know all about it, please don't govern me here in my hospitals, I am very glad that you are judging this positively, but I have a different opinion. Something like this could happen. And by creating these exemptions, we create a source of conflict. I don't think there'd be any damage if we put in the owners. In quotes, because they're all public hospitals County, voivodship and clinical hospitals to this law. Because at this stage we create a certain inequality of entities. That is, clinical hospitals, institutes for which the Minister owns, have a voice, others are included differently. It seems to me that filling in a questionnaire that is currently being assessed is not that simple and it will not be done within 40 minutes, because these 34 questions are not questions that require answers, either yes or no, but they are descriptive questions. Let me quote some typical: to what extent will the implementation of the investment translate into an improvement of the health effects obtained in the population of patients in the voivodship? They're all like that. It has to be justified, it has to be described. And that's what we've written many times as hospital directors. Because it's not like so far, ladies and gentlemen, it's been total chaos, and now everything will be perfect. That's not what evolution is all about. Such health maps, steering committees, health plans of the voivodship Whatever it's called. They've been around for a dozen years. The mechanism we are proposing today, which we are discussing, is certainly a step in the right direction. However, in order not to create potential conflicts of ownership, and conflicts in protection or in health care are the last, I suppose, what the resort and contractors want, and the workers of this system want. We're calling for an amendment. In general, it comes down to the records that the Legislative Office wisely wrote to us to include the marshals in the decision-making process. If the law and justice colleagues want to introduce the elders, I suppose we can persuade the Senators of the Civic Platform to support such an amendment at the club's meeting. Generally speaking, the tool may not be groundbreaking, but it is certainly conducive to rationalising public spending. However, in carrying out the Senate's mission, we can make the law we are discussing even better. That is why we are proposing this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u380	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Minister Konstanty Radziwiłł. Minister, Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u381	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am honored to be able to take part in a decision which, however, is groundbreaking; in this case, I would argue with Senator Grodzki. Against the background of quite common poverty in health care, various types of investments are shiny, which are sometimes a cause for pride for those who look at them, but are often a big problem for the whole system. Of course, we are happy when Polish health care is being modernised, when more and more excellent facilities are being created, which serve patients well, but we must also be aware that this cannot be done without a plan. Today, there is virtually a complete free American woman in terms of investing in health care. Of course, among the very sensible, necessary, or even necessary, investments serving patients are also those that serve someone's interests, satisfy someone's ambitions, or are simply realized on the basis of human, unreliable, ultimately intuition. We want to settle this process. Some call this type of trend to regulate the return to the PRL, but I would like to inform you that such tools operate in many countries, including. with the United States, where private investors who intend to build a larger enterprise must obtain consent, a certificate of demand That's what it's called. To build something like that. For a very simple reason: every investment in health care generates systemic costs, because immediately there is a need to finance the benefits that are provided in such a place. And that's why I thought of it. Here, by the way, we must refer to the idea of including owners in the process of assessing applications, because marshals of voivodships are the owners of hospitals. It is hard to imagine that the director of the voivodship hospital will make an investment request without informing his superior, the Marshall of the voivodship. This is a completely unimaginable situation. Similarly, the director of the county hospital will not make an investment request without informing the old-timer, who in some sense He's his superior. It is difficult, going further, to imagine that the president of a private hospital will make an investment request without informing his superiors in the form of a board of directors in the form of a supervisory board. And just as the board of supervisors in relation to the president of a private hospital company, the marshal in relation to his hospital, or the head of the hospital respectively, is not some external entity that could judge the idea of the director. You have to see it anyway. It's just that they should have agreed on it sooner. And it must be pointed out that the tool that IOWISH will make it possible for them to do so. Minister Łanda was talking about the fact that it was really an investor or actually an applicant, the originator of some investment, but ultimately the investor should be the first to take an interest in this tool to see if the investment that came to his mind makes sense whether it is reasonable or needed. And so you have to see the context of this idea for inclusion as a second stage after the applicant himself, which is the hospital director, the owner and his superior. It's just not necessary, because it's about someone on the outside judging it. The difference between the voivodship and the governor, as well as the private hospital owners, and the health minister is fundamental. Minister for Health Even I would say that contrary to the uncertainty that just appeared in the discussion It is not a founding body for hospitals. He is the supervising body of those who have some hospitals, such as institutes, such as clinical hospitals. The Minister of Health, as you know very well, Professor Grodzki, is not the founding body of the hospital you are the director of. [[It's voivodship...]] I'm sorry, but anyway... [[The Institute.]] ...a clinical hospital... The Institute isn't the founding body, it works a little differently. So that here this property looks completely different. And of course, like the voivodeship in the voivodship, the Minister of Health throughout Poland is responsible for shaping health policy and also to assess whether something fits it. I would also like to draw attention to another aspect of the matter, which also appeared in the discussion. Well, in IOWISZ, for now, this is a project, as Minister Łanda rightly pointed out. Among these 34 questions, which aim to assess the relevance of the investment proposal, there are only 3 questions relating to finance. The rest concerns completely different aspects: health needs, patient's rights, medical sciences, industrial development priorities, Polish investments, etc., etc. In short, this is not a financial tool. Well, I'd say the Minister of Health is well aware that in health care, not finances, but patients' needs are the most important. It can therefore be said that everything that is being implemented by the law and then will already be implemented directly in the regulation Which will ultimately determine what the decision-making questionnaire will look like, which IOWISZ will simply move towards taking greater responsibility for the state. IOWISH will use in his actions in practice... In fact, it can be said that decisions taken on the basis of IOWISZ will complement the knowledge and information contained in health needs maps, in regional policy plans, in health priorities, in medical registers, in a whole range of other information. This will lead to objective decisions that we will make about investment. I think that an important additional aspect, which the Minister mentioned, is that we will already be able to benefit from this instrument in the first place on investments based on European funds, but also And I'm declaring that it's definitely gonna happen. We will be obliged to apply this to all investments based on the Polish budget. Moreover, in the future, contracting will probably also be based on precisely the kind of information contained in IOWISZ, e.g. as regards the inclusion of appropriate facilities in the hospital network. And finally, one last thing, though not least important. There's so much talk about private private money, private investors' money in health care... They too will be able to make decisions with IOWISH, and not necessarily when someone evaluates them, but also when they judge their own ideas, even when they simply decide to invest private funds in health care. To sum up, I believe that this solution will give a better opportunity to use both public and private resources. And I think it will be a great benefit for both those who invest these funds and Or above all, For Polish patients. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u382	Thank you very much, Minister. And I'll ask Senator Piotr Flork to speak. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u383	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! And we heard a lot at the committee meeting, and today we hear a lot about IOWISH. This IOWISH is supposed to shine so brightly, it has all the problems to solve, but we know that it is not so easy that the program itself is not always able to solve everything. I would like to say something about a map of health needs. This is a very important issue, because, as ministers emphasized here, it looks different in Poland, in the area of the voivodship, it is different when it comes to hospitals, e.g. Specialised. It's all spread out differently. I'm just reminding myself, in my own experience, that when there was an emergency, it turned out that at that time not this county hospital, just everything to the specialist hospital... In the case of my voivodship Of course, to Poznan, because there they are best prepared for it. And that's where you have to notice that it's different. Therefore, the funding of these health needs by the National Health Fund... Well, I remember that one time I remember this. In the National Health Fund there were probably 28 billion zlotys, today it is probably about 70 billion, I will not say exactly, and yet, as it turns out, still, the financial needs are big. Therefore, if we have the opportunity to use the EU funds they are, we must try to make maximum use of them. And therefore cooperation is also needed, this cooperation, so that what is really possible to obtain can be used. That's why apart from the health maps... They are in progress, the Minister of Health at the first stage prepared such a map, the voivode will only prepare it later. This will be done according to the plan, according to the law, as it is written. But also important are the priorities, the regional priorities, what they are. 'Cause it's not always gonna happen. A map of health needs, priorities, needs, what are... And I'm a little worried that this rigid system I'm talking about... I don't know if all the data we're going to collect will actually confirm the purpose of this investment. We'll probably evaluate it based on experience, first analyses, etc., then we'll see if this solution is good. Of course, to correct them, it is good to listen on the way to all those who have something to say. And I kind of disagree with the Minister here, because when it comes to institutions, for example. However, as you said, the director of this hospital will also inform the Minister of Health of the fact that he will wish to perform with such a request; and you also said that the director of the county hospital will inform his old lady. However, in this decision-making process, it is important that there is a certain independence and that everyone can speak. I know that, according to the Minister, the marshals weren't interested. I don't know if they were or weren't at first, nor do I know who the marshals are. It would be good to give their names, because I don't know marshals like that. Those I've been talking to are saying the opposite. The fact that they are most interested in this decision-making process. It would probably be good if he didn't expand too much, because after going down to a lower level, the body would expand too much, and in this decision-making cascade, everyone has to say it one at a time. The fact that the National Health Fund will speak is right, very good. That the voivode will speak. If he wants to change the score, he'll have to justify it, as the Minister said. It's good too, it's important. And if we can raise 13,000 points, maybe 13,5,000, as the Minister said in the committee, then we can raise additional funds, i.e. EU funds. But there's really a link missing here. The marshal is not decisive, but he has a lot of knowledge in this consultation. However, the opinion of purposefulness is issued at the very end of the voivode, which means he must collect all the information, including this score. I don't know if he's gonna consider this score decisive or sign what comes out of IOWISH. I'm not so sure that all this is going to work out well, it's going to turn out how these actions are going to be done, how this program is going to be done and the counting starts. However, I think that at the end of this there must be a voivode who will consider everything and find the best solution in a given situation, in a given place, under the circumstances. Because it's not that simple. There are many different aspects to be considered. It seems to me that the ranking of points alone may not be sufficient and may not lead to the right finale, which is why I would once again appeal to the Marshals, however... And I know they're prepared for it and they have the right knowledge. The idea is for the marshals to be involved in the same way as the Minister of Health, who gives an opinion and is involved in this process. Whether the voivode takes this into account is a different matter, but the marshals might be interested. I think there are 27 hospitals in my voivodship under the Marshal, which is a lot. One can consider that the marshals can actually only look at their objects, their units, but the voivode who will make the final decision. Because he's the one who's taking it, and he's responsible for it. It can also be considered, although it does not have to be. I know that in the end, as far as the regional operational program is concerned, the marshal will be running for this money, signing, but these are technical matters. It is important to get to the point of making the right decisions. And that's why you have to look for this broad solution to make sure that this decision is the best, that it will be successful. And the most important thing is the patient's well-being, to ensure that these measures, these opportunities, which are used to the maximum for the benefit of our patients. We can say about this at every stage, and in individual counties, voivodships, we also think about other hospitals, also those subordinate ministers, because they all form this service together. This is very important, important in this context, that we create the law and therefore we should also be responsible for what we adopt. That's why it's important. Once again, I would urge the marshals to find such a solution so that in this decision-making process they would also find themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u384	Thank you very much, Senator. I'll ask Senator Dorota Czudowska to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u385	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. High Senate! Dear Ministers, With all due respect, to the Marshal's Offices, to the regional government... I am from this political period in Poland, when we created local governments and with great hope we gave local governments great opportunities to act for their voivodship or district communities. But I won't regret it, because it can't be the way it is now. The National Health Fund has money from our contributions, which, as you all know, They're not even budgeted because they never knew how many of these contributions they were going to be. I was a councilman of the Seym, so I also have some experience on this side. I'm also a doctor, and I'm also a director, manager, employer. And when there were complaints, when there was any shortage or lack of services in voivodship hospitals, then they said this: and what about us, marshals, can we, if the NFZ doesn't give us? The NFZ, in turn, said that it was the government that adopted such rates, not other tax rates for the National Health Fund. One threw it on the other, and the public still thinks the government's health care status. So we finally have... I'm gonna say it, I'm gonna say it, although it might sound like we're bragging, but as a government of law and justice, we're taking it into our own hands. If the government is to be responsible for everything... Because every time it's bad in health care, people judge the government, it doesn't go into an NFZ account or marshals, it goes into a government account. So it can't be that the government is responsible, and the government or the voivode cannot even know how many directors are in the hospital, how much they earn, what are the staff. I know that as a councilwoman, I've never been able to get that kind of information. Meanwhile, marshal hospitals are indebted to themselves, every once in a while money is being pumped in there, no one is worried about county hospitals, which are often liquidated, and yet the marshal as a marshal of the voivodship should also take care of what is happening in the powiats. He's a voivodship marshal, he should be helping the old folks. Nothing like that ever happened. All the money was pumped into voivodship hospitals, and there was no way the government could control it. Then we take responsibility for all of this. And what the ministers have just presented, I personally, as a doctor, perceive as a highway on which this health care will lead to such a state that Poles will be healthier and healthier and everyone will be satisfied with health services, and doctors, nurses, all health professionals will be more satisfied with their work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u386	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing to Senator Tomasz Grodzki. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Krzysztof Łanda: Yes.]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u387	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, Just a few notes. Very briefly. Regarding Senator Grodzki's statement: it is clear that not only finance matters. But let me remind you that the economics of health and the economy of health measures today is an ethical issue, because if you spend this money in one place, this money will run out in another place. That is why economic aspects must be taken into account and rightly also in the Refund Act adopted by the previous Parliament and proposed by the previous government, these economic aspects are fundamental. On the other hand, Senator... I would like to remind you that it is difficult to talk about any reasonableness, not only for economic reasons, but also for health reasons, if we recall even the report of the NIK or documents of the European Commission, where Poland was scored for purchases of equipment which was not unpacked at all, which was completely unused, and already one or another applicant reached out for further money and for new generation equipment. Building two hospitals with the same profile next to each other is certainly not justified either for economic reasons or for health reasons. As for the details, the Marshal without an evaluation in IOWIS, who is a barrier, will not be able to... Let's put it another way: hospitals that are subject to a marshal will not be able to enter the competition with their conclusions without such an assessment. As far as Senator Flork is concerned, all I can say is that, in the end, in the act currently in force by the previous government and voted by Parliament, which I would like to point out is that when it comes to the opinions on purpose issued by the voivode, there are no marshals, they were not included in the process of preparing such administrative decisions at all. So here I think that... of course, I'm holding up all the arguments I mentioned earlier. And one last thing. I ask the High House to adopt the law without amendments, because time is very important here. We're doing this project at a pace... The project is very urgent because from 30 June, applications can be and are being submitted, and this EU money can already be spent. And if the trial is delayed, of course it won't be good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u388	Thank you very much, Minister. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Commission for the Territorial Government and State Administration and the Health Commission to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. High Senate, I am now proposing that we proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: the law on the amendment of the law on copyright and related rights. The fourteenth point will be dealt with immediately after the fifteenth point. We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: the law amending the law on copyright and related rights. The text of the Act is contained in print No 247 and the committee report In print No 247 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Media, Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u389	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Senate! I have the honour to be the rapporteur for the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media held yesterday. We discussed the law on amending the law on copyright and related rights. Let me briefly say that the purpose of the law is to implement the copyright law of 4 February 1994... We are to implement an article into this law. 10 Council Directive 93/83/EEC of 27 September 1993 on the coordination of certain rules concerning copyright and related rights applicable to satellite transmission and cable retransmission. This may sound quite difficult for people who are not aware of the subject, but it is mainly about matters of funds received by authors or broadcasting companies. The basic question was whether the copyright law must be used primarily by authors. We've received a lot of feedback. The main and most important, of course, is the opinion of our Legislative Office. The Bureau did not make a final statement on the draft law, since in several of its comments it claimed that the law was inconsistent. The main allegations were the word "transmission' used. Ladies and gentlemen, if the senators wanted to look into it, they would have noticed that, according to the translation, This is literally translated from this directive: the radio or television organisation benefits from its own transmission, whether or not the rights in question belong to the organisation or have been transferred to it by another entitled... The word "translation" has a completely different meaning for us. Following the advice of the opposition group of senators and after a long debate in which the Prime Minister, Minister of Culture, Mr Gliński, presented his opinion, we proposed an amendment which reads as follows: the provisions of the Act do not apply to the rights which the radio or television organisation uses in relation to its own works, whether or not the rights in question belong to that organisation or have been transferred to it by another entitled party. Those who follow the text see that the word "translations" has been replaced by the word "works." The discussion has been going on for years. I've been in it before. I think it's really a fault that it wasn't brought... Time is running out, and this directive must be implemented, as Prime Minister Gliński pointed out. We are making these amendments, hoping that this amendment will not change this main act. That's hope, because we don't intend to spoil it as an opposition. Or interrupt... Because Poland could be in danger of being punished. In the Seym it passed without any votes against. The pronunciation of this passage through the Seym is clear. Nevertheless, we are guarding the interests of the creators who claim that through a project proposed by the government side they could lose influence for their works, which they deserve from broadcasters. Finally, six senators voted in favour of this amendment and four senators opposed it. In this way, I can present to the High House a proposal for this... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u390	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. Mr Piotr Gliński, Minister of Culture and National Heritage, is at our meeting today. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u391	Dear Marshal! High Senate! I would like to briefly present the position of the government. This is indeed a novel introduced on a government initiative, because this directive has not been fully implemented for 12 years. He was implemented, but someone left one article, art. 10, which speaks of the so-called. an exception to the fact that copyrights under this law are implemented through collective management organisations with the exception of their own transmissions, programmes or their own works. This is, of course, an exception that is detrimental to collecting societies. By default, it can be said that if it is unfavorable for collecting societies because they do not exercise these rights, it is the same for creators. It's like whenever we're dealing with copyright, we have to judge between the interests of a group of creators and groups of other entities, those that, for example, are. give the works of the creators, allow the spread of these works, etc., etc. And that's the case. We are obliged to introduce this European order in Poland, i.e. to implement a directive that was not implemented. All the more so we are committed to the fact that the representatives of this second group of interests, not creators, in this case cable television, have already challenged that the directive has not been implemented in its entirety. We know what this is about, so as a government, we are obliged to straighten this matter out quickly. We have prepared such an amendment following an inter-ministerial consultation, following a public consultation. Nevertheless, at the stage of the examination of this issue in the Sejm, we went to the hands of the creators of the Sejm. An amendment has been adopted that goes against the interests of the creators, which narrows down this exception somewhat. This amendment also implements our final stand as a government, that we propose a literal translation of the European directive, in which is the word "translation." Because the word "translation" is obviously ambiguous in different languages, in different contexts. You can explain them differently, you can treat them as they were done in the Senate committee, that they are works, and you can treat them so that they are programs. This first translation would be beneficial to the creators, the latter Most likely for cable TV. We, as a government, were looking for a compromise. On the Sejm Committee, we went towards... We recognized the right of the creators, because in fact copyrights are related to creation, etc. But these laws are always implemented somewhere, so there is always a second group of interests. Because the creators themselves are not able to spread their original works, but they always use some technology and entities, etc. So we have to judge. I'm telling you again. between these two groups and as a government, we have taken the view that the compromise will be what we propose. This compromise still has the advantage that it is a literal translation from the European Commission. This is also in some sense the interpretation of this Commission. My department, which deals with these matters, has been in relations with the Commission for a long time, because it has to deal with these matters through Brussels. This is the safest thing for the next problems with the European Commission: literal translation. The practice is also that this provision will be challenged and specific issues raised between collecting societies and cable television will be brought to court. Depending on how we present this provision, in these courts probably one or the other party will have a more favourable position. In my opinion, we should stick to this compromise and the literal translation, especially since in the directive in question, in other articles the word "works" occurs, i.e. there are pieces, and there are no "works" here. So we can presume, however, that the intention of the legislator was to define the transmission, however literally we would interpret it later. 'Cause I'm gonna agree that there's no ambiguity here. I repeat that once again with the government's argument. The point is that, firstly, in our understanding, this is a compromise, and we must always seek compromise; secondly, literal translation protects us from further problems with the European Commission. I therefore request that the amendment which was voted on by the Senate committee be rejected, inter alia. As the turnout of the Senators of Law and Justice was not very impressive at this committee meeting, these are the facts. So that I maintain the position that came out of the Sejm, and I ask you to accept this novel without the Senate amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u392	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. During that time, several committee meetings were held, hence... [[And the Senate Bureau meeting.]] ...yes, and the Senate Bureau, which is why... [[Minister of Culture and National Heritage Piotr Gliński: I am merely stating the fact.]] ...they weren't all allowed to participate. I'm not making excuses, but I want you to be aware of this... [[Maybe they'd vote differently.]] ...that a lot of things happen at the same time in the Senate. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Are any of your senators... You're welcome. President Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u393	Such a question was raised at the committee meeting, and the Prime Minister himself has just admitted that this word transmission can also have legal effects that will continue. We talked about the creator. I belong to them, so I'm on this side of them, and they're really gonna go on trial, and this process can take years, and they're always gonna lose to the big company. But I'm asking, Prime Minister, about such... This is a simple question: are we not able to convince the European Commission that our translation is a translation of the language and principles that apply here? We've been talking here for a while with some serious... lawyers' colleagues... In English, the word "transmission" appears once and the word "works" always appears. So what I'm saying is that we can reassure the creators that right now, well, the sender will say... then they'll go to court and then the creator will go away. And this paradox that I took on myself, as you know, for 10 years in the Seym, was that there wouldn't have been any broadcasters if it hadn't been for the creator. Or they would only broadcast political information Who's gonna want to hear it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u394	You're welcome, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u395	Thank you for that question. Of course, we were discussing it, we were wondering. It seems to me that the argument you put forward is for the purpose of determining the transmission. Since the word "works" appears repeatedly in the directive and does not appear in this provision, perhaps we should draw such a conclusion that if the legislator wanted it to appear and that it were "works," he would have written the "works" and would not have been a problem. But, in my opinion, the term "works" is also ambiguous in this context. As for the creators, I stress once again that we have come up against the interests of the creators at the stage of the procession in the Parliamentary Committee. That is not enough, I can show you a text from one of the main representatives of creative circles, thanking you for accepting the arguments put forward by this web page. That's why I think it's a compromise. At the moment, the creators probably want to take even more, go a step further. I would also like to point out that the fact that this amendment was not implemented for many years served the creators, because there was no exception which took away a little bit of rights from them. This is our position, I stress it, although as Minister of Culture and National Heritage I feel as a representative of the creators, but also of all the institutions that enable creators to spread their talent, their work. And we always have to balance, in my opinion, interests in this area. In addition, you know, the argument that the European Commission can be convinced does not exactly convince me, because we have a variety of experiences with the European Commission. That I would avoid clear terms. I prefer to use literal translation. If European legislators have set us up for this fact, then this is it. Some of their responsibility. For us, let's just say, with procedural caution, maybe it's better if it's a literal translation. I'm maintaining the government's position.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u396	Thank you, Prime Minister. Would any of you like to ask another question? Thank you. I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk made his speech in the discussion on the minutes. I would like to inform you that Senator Marek Martynowski has submitted a legislative proposal in writing. The discussion is closed. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Culture and Communications to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the Law amending the Civil Procedure Code, the Law on the Notariat and the Law amending the Civil Code, the Law amending the Civil Procedure Code and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 258 and the report of the Commission In print No 258 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Legislative Committee, Senator Rafał Ambrozik, to present a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u397	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Dear Marshal! High Senate! On behalf of the Legislative Commission and of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, which held yesterday on the Act on the 14th item of today's agenda, I would like to present a report on the work of the Joint Committees. The subject matter of the work was the draft law introduced by the Council of Ministers concerning the Law amending the Law on Civil Procedure, the Law on Notariat and the Act amending the Law on Civil Code, the Law on Civil Procedure and some other laws. The purpose of the amendments is to extend the scope of the Revenue Register to the European Certificate of Succession referred to in Regulation No 650/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 July 2012 on jurisdiction, applicable law, recognition and enforcement of decisions, acceptance and enforcement of authentic instruments relating to succession and on the establishment of a European Certificate of Succession. This Regulation indicates that the principal factor in determining jurisdiction will be the habitual residence of the heir at the time of his death, unless the heir himself indicates the law of another Member State of the European Union, but must be a national of that State. The regulation is intended to facilitate the exercise of the right to inheritance by citizens of the European Union. At national level, the regulations contained in this Regulation have been taken into account following the addition to the Code of Civil Procedure of the new Title VIIa fully devoted to the instrument of the European Certificate of Succession. On 10 July of the previous year, as a result of the amendment, the Land Register was introduced, i.e. the public register, which was entrusted to the National Council of Notaries. The register shall contain information relating to the statements of inheritance by the courts, as well as the certificates of inheritance issued by the notaries. The European Certificate of Succession will be registered in this register. This will make it easier to confirm the right to inheritance. The Legislative Office raised no objections to the draft amendment. The draft was adopted unanimously on the committee. The Commission proposes that the law be adopted without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u398	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] The draft law was introduced by the government. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. We have Minister Łukasz Piebak, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Justice Łukasz Piebiak: Yes.]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u399	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I'll try to be brief. It seems that the project is not controversial, although it is important in terms of the completeness of our legal system and the fulfilment of the obligations arising from membership of the European Union, that is, what follows from the regulation already mentioned by Senator rapporteur, Senator Ambrozik. The main purpose of the Law on the amendment of the Civil Procedure Code, the Law on the Notariat and the Law on the amendment of the Civil Code, the Law on Civil Procedure and some other laws is to extend the scope of the register of succession to the European Certificate of Succession. As the rapporteur has already mentioned, the inheritance register in its original form could not include European certificates of inheritance, since, at the time of finalising the work on the 10 July 2015 Act, which was already mentioned here, aimed at implementing Regulation No 650/2012, including the provisions on European certificates of succession, work was still ongoing. This law is therefore intended to implement what could not be implemented at the time of the adoption of the original provisions on the register of successions and to complete the process of adopting national provisions for the implementation of Regulation No 650/2012. I would like to stress that, in the view of the government, the extension of the inheritance register to the European Certificate of Succession is absolutely desirable. First of all, registration will increase the effectiveness of European inheritance certificates and thus contribute to the effective implementation of Regulation No 650/2012. What is equally important, the inclusion of the inheritance register of European inheritance certificates will increase the credibility of the succession register as a whole. This will strengthen legal certainty and minimise the risk of issuing conflicting decisions or notarial documents confirming the right to inheritance. For these reasons, the Act contains provisions amending the provisions of the Civil Procedure Code, the Notariat Law and the Act of 10 July 2015. This will make it possible to register notarial decisions and actions concerning European certificates of succession in the succession register. Such registration shall be carried out by an official court or notary depending on who issued the document to be entered in the register. The Act contains a number of additional amendments, specifying, correcting or adjusting. The Sejm has passed a law that takes into account all relevant solutions proposed in a government project with minor legislative or editorial corrections. In addition, it has introduced 3 amendments to the amended Act of 10 July 2015, which will assist in its proper implementation and application. The government welcomes these additional changes. At yesterday's joint meeting of the Senate committees The Legislative Committee and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions They unanimously voted in favour of the law without amendment. I therefore ask the Senate to adopt the law in this form and I would like to stress that in accordance with the article. 5 The Act is to enter into force on 8 September 2016. This date is so important that the provisions of the Act of 10 July 2015 enter into force by that date, which inter alia. enter the Land Register and which is amended by this Act. If this law is adopted by the High House, on 8 September we will have a complete register of inheritance as regards both this national part of the Act of 10 July 2015. And the part we're talking about today. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Marshal Stanisław Karczewski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u400	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jerzy Czerwinski reporting. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u401	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I already expressed my doubts at the committee meeting, and then I was tried, let's call it, calm down, i.e. It was explained why I was wrong. Maybe I'll just give you a brief summary, remind you, because not all the members of the High House have attended a committee meeting. I meant that the introduction of these provisions, including those which were introduced by the 24 July 2015 amendment, could facilitate the so-called. late displaced persons, because they are mainly about them, i.e. Polish citizens who emigrated to Germany and tried to recover property here in our country. I was calmed down, explaining that in the article. 1 paragraph 2 in point (a) I, the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 July 2012 It is said that all entries in real estate rights registers are excluded from the scope of this Regulation, i.e., I understand, also to e.g. For the books of eternity. But unfortunately, in the article. 6th Amendment of 24 July 2015 the geodetic and cartographic law has been amended and it is made clear that the update of the information contained in the land and building records, which is the basis for establishing the facts in our legal system, is also based on the ENP, the European Certificate of Succession. What does that mean? This means that perhaps not immediately in the eternal book, but in the records of land and buildings from which, as I say, you will then be able to draw on the next step, i.e. claims against the Polish side... you will be able to use the EPS... you will be able to implement entries with the help of EPS. And now with the inheritance register, it'll be even easier, because it's in electronic form. And the question to the Minister... There are other issues to do with this, for example. in the context of the ENP proceedings, the complaint cannot be applied... [[Excuse me, Mr. Senator, the question is a minute.]] Now. [[Ask me a question.]] I've just closed the historical drawing, Mr. Marshal. [[I know, that's a question now, please.]] Question: "Aren't you worried about the comments I made just now that it might actually be that Polish citizens or their legal successors, in particular their successors who emigrated to the Federal Republic of Germany, as a result of the legislation that we are now adopting, will have an easier path to recover property in Poland?" Especially when it comes to eternal books. That's another question. In many cases it has not been agreed to the actual state with the records in the perpetual books or these books. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Łukasz Piebiak: I'll answer if you don't mind.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u402	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u403	We have analysed these situations because, indeed, Senator Czerwiński has already signalled this problem. I don't think there's any such danger. Speech is in the article you've summoned from the senator. 1 paragraph 2 (a) (i) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) and a regulation that explicitly excludes such public registers And this is the exclusive possibility of registering property rights In the eternal books. Moreover, even more clearly the motivation of the Community legislature is reflected in recital 18, which also has normative content. I think everyone who deals with Community law knows that the preamble is not an ornament. It has normative content. This recital of the 18th was introduced at our request, at the request of Poland, so that doubts which might arise... Although it seems that art. 1 paragraph 2 is pretty clear. It's about the danger you're signaling. That's why there's no doubt about it. There is a clear explanation in the regulation that, with regard to the issue of real estate as regards the issue of perpetual books, the European Certificate of Succession will not decide anything It will be decided by law governing this register, i.e. the Polish law on perpetual books and mortgage, plus a code of civil procedure. It's about how you register property rights. There is indeed, you can say, a certain inconsistency between the fact that we enter into the records of land and buildings... There is an entry in the municipality on the basis of the EPS, but about the property right, I think we will all agree on that here. It determines what is in the eternal books, not what is in the records of land and buildings. And one last thing. Of course there's still some outstanding legal estates. After one of the meetings of the High House, I spoke to Senator Żaryn... We checked with the Ministry of Justice and it turned out that, surprisingly, not western and northern lands have the worst rate of these irregular states, but for example. Świętokrzyskie voivodship, which was never German land. Right? This is a matter of different historical events, of some disorder that has been, I don't know, for 100 years. Of course, we try to ensure that what is revealed in the eternal books corresponds to the actual one, but it is often difficult because there are no documents, owners are unidentified, etc. I'm not saying that this process is over and there's nothing that can be improved. We work in the Ministry of Justice to address this issue even more closely. If we're talking about this particular normative act, I'm the kind of concern the senator raises, I don't have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u404	Thank you very much, Minister. The senator wants to ask, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u405	Yes, Mr. Marshal. Minister, you didn't calm me down. I still don't think we understand one thing. The basis for establishing the facts is the record of land and buildings, and the ENP can be the basis for updating this record. I mean, it's basic, not just that it can be. That's one thing. Secondly, in the eternal books, in many cases there are preserved old owners, and sometimes there are no such books at all. There are therefore requests to establish these books from present German citizens. Third, this is also important. The regulation does not really talk about real estate registers, but the Polish law, which went further than the regulation, speaks about such a register, namely the register of land and buildings. Well, the EPS provisions are entered directly in the records. And finally, fourthly, the regulation talks about it... I might quote: the law of the State in which the deceased was habitually resident at the time of death is applicable to all inheritance cases. So German and not Polish law will apply here, which I think is even worse. And one last thing, Minister. I wouldn't underestimate those things. Perhaps in the Świętokrzyskie voivodship there are more outstanding matters related to the perpetual books, suppose there are 100 of them, in some unit of measurement. But these 100 cases are not as dangerous for the Polish state of possession as 10 cases. in Zachodniopomorskie, Opolskie or Lower Silesian voivodship. That's what happened before. They were, Minister, from 2001 to 2005. There was even an invitation by the Ministry of Finance of the German party, the Federal Republic of Germany to recover their property here or, I apologize for the expression, a sting for this purpose of their citizens. These things are very shocking from a media point of view. I wouldn't want the PiS government to lead By some kind of frivolity in the absorption of European legislation For further threats. And for this reason, I do not follow so much as I inform you that such situations can happen again.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u406	If you don't mind... It'll be very short. Of course, it is not the intention of the Ministry of Justice to do anything that could compromise the interests of Polish citizens or to facilitate the recovery of property which was too much for these late displaced persons, although not everything was revealed in the eternal books. However, I would like to draw your attention. Two things. Firstly, if there was no European Certificate of Succession, it would be those, those who die abroad, e.g. in the Federal Republic of Germany and have, at least in their opinion, any claims would have been issued by the relevant German authority. And these documents, as a rule, should also be honored by us. The European Certificate of Succession is some facilitation in cross-border relations, but that does not mean that without this facilitation this problem, which the senator says will not exist. Maybe it'll be a little harder, but if someone actually has a fortune to recover, I'm assuming they're a little more difficult to overcome. And it's not like... It would be necessary to indicate in this law, which we are talking about, a passage which would actually confirm the thesis about the frivolity of our legislator, who did not see anything, which does not care about the national interest and thus facilitates the recovery of the property in the territory of the Republic of Poland. If this danger really exists, I am convinced that it is not, but hypothetically let's say that such danger is This is due to the content of the Regulation. We are not the European Commission, the European Parliament. What we have been able to obtain in the EU within the scope of the regulation, we have obtained. Now the regulation is what it is, and it is our duty to adapt the provisions of the Civil Procedure Code and, above all, the notariat law so that this regulation is applied. Otherwise, they threaten us, of course, with sanctions from the Union for not doing the responsibilities we have assumed. Now it's a matter of land and buildings records. The records of land and buildings did not tell about it It is, of course, the basis for making entries in perpetual books, but in Section I, which refers to the marking of real estate and not to the department which provides for who owns the real estate. So this danger... I'm not saying I underestimate them, but I wouldn't overestimate this danger, because it's not a document that points to the owner of the property, it's the basis for the registration by the perpetual accountant's court in the eternal book. That's the designation of the property, not the person who owns it. And of course it can be that if there are still And certainly there are on the Recovered Lands and on the rest of the Polish lands such situations that due to various historical events we are dealing with the non-disclosure of these new owners, there is a danger that whether by means of the ENP or other legal instruments, such attempts will be undertaken and in some individual cases they will be effective. But this is not the fault of this law, which we are talking about, but it is the fault of certain historical events and of the fact that everything that should be done has not yet been done, and it is not entirely the fault of the state administration, but it is often the fault of those concerned who do not care enough or care enough. Well, there may be such individual cases, but it seems to me that we are not saying that in some individual cases, by some inability or unwillingness to settle property matters, there may be a possibility that such property will be recovered. But I wouldn't link it to the bill we're talking about today. Well, it's the only way I can respond to the senator's objections, even though I understand them in human terms.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u407	Thank you very much. Senator...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u408	Just one sentence, Mr. Marshal, to... This law, specifically this act, is, of course, a consequence of this unfortunate novel of 24 July 2015. Neither this government, nor you personally, that novel and the adoption of this regulation in this form are burdened. Unfortunately, that coalition that may have been too short-sighted...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u409	But this, Mr. Senator... [[...but that's how it is...]] Okay, but we're not discussing... [[Okay, I'm sorry.]] ...because this is beginning to be a debate and an exchange of views. Excuse me, there wasn't even a question. Are there any more questions for the Minister? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Łukasz Piebiak: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We begin to consider item 17 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on amending the resolution on the establishment of the Polonia Consultative Council. The project was submitted by a group of senators and is included in print No 262 and the report I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad, Senator Jan Żaryn, to present a joint report of the committee on the draft resolution. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u410	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The two committees mentioned by your marshal discussed yesterday a revision of the resolution on the establishment of the Polonia Consultative Council. The amendment tabled concerns Article. 1, i.e. the number of people who would be in the Polonia Consultative Council. There's a request to replace the 15-person record with a 16-person record. This amendment was adopted unanimously by all the members present at the meeting of those committees. She wasn't controversial. the motivation, which accompanied this amendment, the motivation resulting from the fact that the idea of the Polonia Consultative Council met with a great positive response from the Polish immigrant environments and certainly there are many people and environments who would like to participate in its work. There is a clear need to increase the representativeness of this consultative board. As I said at the meeting of these committees and I will also repeat at the moment: I ask the High House for great empathy in advance, if it turns out that it will be necessary to increase the number of those members of the Polish Consultative Council once again, because we are from being able to meet the needs of emigration and we will see them, and therefore also amend this resolution. It's a reality that can happen, but it doesn't have to. For today I am making such an amendment and I ask you very much to adopt it and to adopt a resolution with this amended provision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u411	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. Let me remind you that the applicants have also authorized Senator Jan Żaryn to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the draft resolution. This third reading would only involve voting. It will be held together with other votes at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: information on the activities of the Ombudsman for the year 2015, together with comments on the state of compliance with the rights of the child. The text of the information is provided in print No 141. He addressed the information received to the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and to the Committee on Science, Education and Sport. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy took note of the information at its meeting on 17 May 2016 and the Committee on Science, Education and Sport This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its The committees have informed the Senate marshal. I would like to welcome the President of the Senate, Mr. Mark Michalak. Hello, sir. Hello, sir. I ask the Ombudsman to take the floor and present the information.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u412	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! High Izbo! In accordance with the rights of the Ombudsman, the Ombudsman shall uphold the rights of the child as defined in the Constitution, the Convention on the Rights of the Child and other laws, taking into account the respect and responsibility of the rights and obligations of the parents. All actions undertaken by the Ombudsman in 2015, as in previous years, aimed at ensuring the full and harmonious development of the child, were carried out with respect for its subjectivity and dignity. For years, the Ombudsman has been conducting a continuous and systematic analysis of problems affecting the child and the family, as well as measures to protect the child from violence, cruelty, exploitation, demoralisation, negligence and other mistreatments. They shall act on their own initiative and on the basis of the signals received in individual cases. The Ombudsman also conducts activities to promote and disseminate the rights of the child and the methods of protecting them. In this respect, cooperates closely with NGOs. The amendments introduced in 2015 to the Ombudsperson's Act ensured a more efficient functioning of the Ombudsman's institution, which consequently translates into even better protection of the child and his rights. It was important to give the Ombudsman of the rights of the child the right to refuse to disclose the data of the person from whom the Ombudsman was informed of the breach of the rights or interests of the child and the documentation collected during the investigation. In this way, the Ombudsman has become a body to which victims or witnesses of child harm may report without fear of disclosure of personal data. Compiled to the High House in accordance with the Article. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Act on the Ombudsman of the Rights of the Child, Senate Printing No 141, Information on the activities of the Ombudsman of the Children's Rights for 2015, together with the Notes on the state of the child's rights, provide a detailed description of the actions and actions taken to implement the constitutional and statutory tasks in the area of the protection of the rights and the welfare of the child. A total of 49,000 674 cases were brought to the Ombudsman's Office in 2015, i.e. more than four and a half times more than in 2008, when I had the honour of taking up this office. Since 2013, the number of interventions has remained close. In 2015, the Ombudsman addressed 116 general speeches to ministers, bodies and institutions. In addition, the Ombudsman, using his statutory powers, if he considered that there was a risk to the interests of the child in the ongoing proceedings, reported and participated in judicial proceedings on the rights of the prosecutor. In 2015, the Ombudsman made use of this right 231 times. In accordance with the provisions of the Ombudsperson's Act, the information presented to the High House, as well as in previous years, covers five main areas of action for the protection of the youngest. These include the right to life and health care, the right to family education, the right to decent social conditions, the right to science and the right to protection against violence, cruelty, exploitation of demoralisation, neglect or other mistreatment. In view of the wide range of written information, please allow for synthetic take-up and identification of key issues concerning the Ombudsman's action in 2015. In the area of protection of the child's right to life and health, a total of 6 000 119 cases were reported to the Ombudsman in 2015. The Ombudsman asked the authorities and institutions to take action or to provide information on, inter alia, matters relating to: access to specialist doctors, treatment costs, caries epidemics, availability for sanatorium treatment, rehabilitation of children, protection of the life and health of the unborn child, preventive vaccination, respect for the rights of minors of patients, so-called. life windows, a basket of child guaranteed benefits, a health care organisation on the population of developmental age, the organisation and functioning of health care institutions, medical errors and claims related to the provision of health services, monitoring from birth the fate of the child and safety in playrooms and playgrounds. To this extent, the Ombudsman took action on individual matters and sent 17 general speeches. In his speeches, the Advocate-General strongly responded to the recommendation of the UN Children's Rights Committee recommending the liquidation of the so-called. windows of life. The protest expressed during the proceedings of the Committee on the Rights of the Child in Geneva and several times thereafter, including in response to the written recommendations of the Committee. In the opinion of the Ombudsman, the so-called. The windows of life are an important element in complementing the protection of the fundamental right of the child to live, so he once again took the view that the natural right to live with another right should be given priority to the right to live. The views of the Ombudsman were divided by the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy. By directing proposals, comments, recommendations and requests to individual bodies and institutions required to ensure the best possible implementation of the rights of the child, the Ombudsman paid attention, inter alia. on the problem of a decreasing number of children and young people receiving health care This issue has been addressed by the Ombudsman since 2010; the need to prioritise the evaluation of systemic rehabilitation of children in fixed conditions; the issue of availability, quality and efficiency of dental care for children and adolescents; the still unresolved issue of the use of solar devices by children; the issue of prevention of infectious diseases in the context of an increasing number of parents refusing child protective vaccination; too easy access to prescription-free medicinal products and containing substances that have psychoactive and addictive or otherwise adverse effects on human health through undesirable effects or interactions; the need to improve the protection of the rights of minors with the most severe injuries; the need to isolate the basket of child-guaranteeed benefits; the need to work on provisions restricting access to electronic cigarettes for minors and banning advertising of nicotine-containing products other than tobacco products; the availability of optimal treatment for children suffering from tumorous sclerosis; the need to protect the brain tumours of SEGA; the problems of children in psychiatric hospitals despite the lack of medical indications and the quality of health services for children who have been granted to children and young people who have the need to be able to live in a wide manner and for the protection of children who are not intended for the purposes of a child's. The problem of drinking alcohol and other psychoactive substances by pregnant mothers. Some of the requests made by the Ombudsman in the general speeches have been taken into account. In particular, the following amendments have been made. By a regulation amending the scope of child benefits, the age limit for the provision of preventive protection with slices was increased by the end of the eighth year of age. The Law of 24 April 2015 amending the Law on the Prevention of Drug Addiction and some other laws introduced regulations on the restriction of sales of products containing psychoactive substances. On 2 December 2015, the provisions of the revised Law on State Medical Rescue entered into force, enabling the organisation of trauma centres for children. A system for monitoring the fate of the child has been sealed, a children's health book has been introduced and the need to notify the birth of the child to the POZ midwife and, in the absence of a commitment, to provide information to the district family care centre. These issues will be developed by me in the section on the state of compliance with the rights of the child. A draft law on amending the Health Act against the consequences of the use of tobacco and tobacco products was drawn up on 9 November 1995, which takes into account the demands of the Ombudsman on children's rights in 2014. This law prohibits the making available of tobacco and electronic cigarettes to persons up to the age of eighteen, the advertising and promotion of tobacco and electronic cigarettes and the smoking of electronic cigarettes in public places. I will refer more to the demands that have been made in the following part of the speech when discussing the integral part of the information presented here, i.e. the attention to the state of compliance with the rights of the child. I will now discuss the area of protection of the right of the child to be raised in the family. I would like to stress that the protection of the right to upbringing in the biological family has been a priority of the Ombudsman's activities since the beginning. There is no doubt that the natural and best environment for the child's development is the biological family. For this reason, it should be provided with care and wise help. Putting a child in foster care is the country's furthest interference in the life of the family and causes a diametric change in the situation of the minor. It is therefore necessary to examine in detail all the circumstances of the case, taking into account the highest order of the child's well-being and interests. The application of State interference measures to parental authority leading to the taking away of a child should only take place as a last resort. The replacement bake should only be used as a temporary family aid measure if other measures have not had the desired effect or where, because of the circumstances, there is a need for immediate protection of the child. It should be raised here that the right of the family to help from the state is guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. It is the responsibility of the State to ensure the protection of the rights of the child. A child deprived of parental care is entitled to care and assistance from public authorities. The subjectivity of the family and the autonomy of family life are protected by constitutional standards. The right of children to special care and assistance is also enshrined in the preamble and provisions of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child. As regards the category of cases relating to the right of the child to raise in the family, in 2015 they were notified to the Ombudsman of the rights of the child in a total of 24 000 851. That's almost half of all the cases that came into the Ombudsman's office in the year I'm talking about. This has been the largest group of cases reported for years. When intervening, the Ombudsman asked the authorities and institutions to take action or to provide information on matters relating, inter alia, to the exercise of the right of the child to both parents, the implementation of child's contacts with parents, the enforcement of judicial decisions, young children in the foster care system, the procedure for the hearing of minors, the protection of the rights of the child in proceedings under the Hague Convention on the Civil Aspects of International Child Abduction, the right to know the identity of the child, proceedings for the taking away of a person under parental authority or under its care, minor mothers in various types of institutions, support to a biological family experiencing difficulties in carrying out care and education functions, the observance of the rights of children placed in the foster care system, the protection of the rights of the child in the adoption procedure, the operation of day support centres, the protection of the rights of minors of aliens and the ratification of the Third Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child. To this extent, the child's rights spokesperson acted on individual matters, but also addressed 19 speeches of a general nature. At this point, it is necessary to indicate the Ombudsman's thematic actions in the form of general speeches in the direction of initiatives by qualified entities aimed, in particular, at ratifying the Third Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child. It is an initiative to equip the UN Children's Rights Committee with the power to make and deal with complaints about violations of the rights of the child. The postulate was submitted by the Polish Ombudsman to the Human Rights Council in 2009. Although Poland signed the Third Optional Protocol on 30 September 2013, it has not yet ratified it. The Ombudsman continues to call for further work to ratify the document. This will contribute to strengthening the status of the child as a rightholder and improving the functioning of national mechanisms for protecting the rights of the child. The Ombudsman also called for effective protection of the right of the child to both parents. An analysis of the complaints received by the Ombudsman shows that the isolation of a child from one of the parents is a frequently chosen procedural strategy in matters relating to the regulation of the situation of the child after the separation of the parents. The Ombudsman also pointed to the ineffectiveness of the legal instruments contained in the existing provisions of the Civil Procedure Code, the Family and Care Code, and the need to criminalise the so-called. Parental abductions. The Ombudsman also called for legislative action on the provisions of the Article. 598 Civil Procedure Code. The mechanisms contained in these provisions for the performance of child-parent contacts have proved to be ineffective. The Ombudsman has requested that work be initiated on amending the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure and on extending the catalogue of family law cases from which a cassation complaint is pending on the basis of the Hague Convention on the Civil Aspects of the Abduction of a Child Abroad. The introduction of review of decisions by the Supreme Court is in the opinion of the Ombudsman an appropriate solution to eliminate faulty decisions in this regard and to harmonise interpretation of law and judicial practice in cases resolved under the Hague Convention. The Ombudsman also asked for legislative action to be taken to allow a DNA test to be carried out in the case of the determination or denial of fatherhood or motherhood even in the absence of the consent of the alleged parent. The Ombudsman also called for intensified action against the interference of social services and foreign courts with Poles living with children outside the country resulting in the removal of children from parental care, the prohibition of contact with children, and the limitation or deprivation of parental authority. I also called for action to ensure proper implementation of the rights of a child in foster care. I pointed out the problem of putting young children in institutional custody against the provisions of the Act. The Ombudsman also requested action to safeguard the functioning of day-care facilities and to take multi-faceted measures to promote the support mechanism of the family as a form of help to families experiencing difficulties in caring and caring. Once again, the Ombudsman asked for legislative action concerning the hearing or questioning of children during civil proceedings in the so-called. friendly interrogation rooms similar to a minor's hearing and his protection in criminal proceedings. The Ombudsman also asked the Supreme Audit Chamber to carry out checks on the performance of the obligations imposed on the organisers of foster care by the Act on support of the family and the system of foster care and to develop a comprehensive diagnosis of problems in foster care. The Ombudsman acted on the studies and findings carried out and on the prosecutor-general's guidelines on the need to ensure the proper activity of prosecutors in cases of notification pursuant to Article. 598 §1 of the Code of Civil Procedure on Obstruction of the Forced Reception of a Person Under Parental Authority or Under Care by Hiding That Person or By Taking Other Actions to Obstruction the Enforcement of the Judgment, and Renewed its Proposal to Work on Regulation of the Search by the Police of the Apartment and Other Places in Cases for the Reception of the Child. In many individual cases, the Ombudsman initiated proceedings before the court in the framework of his statutory powers, as well as proceedings already in progress. The appropriate assistance provided to the child by care institutions should be to focus on improving the functioning of the family, which does not allow proper care for children. However, the courts have not always benefited from a full range of legal opportunities to support the family, and in these situations the Ombudsman's intervention was necessary. The Ombudsman consistently takes the view that economic and family difficulties cannot be the sole reason for placing the child outside his or her natural educational environment. In situations where the child's life or health is at risk, placing in foster care is a necessary measure, but the financial situation of the family cannot be identified as a direct threat to the child's care and care situation. It should be pointed out with determination that parents' temporary parental failure due to financial failure and family poverty cannot result in a decision to take the child away from their parents. At this point, however, it should be pointed out that the identified problem of placing the child in custody solely because of the parents' poverty has not been confirmed in the examination of the cases identified. Poverty was just one of the reasons . and not the main reason To decide whether to place the child in foster care. Similar observations have been made by the Supreme Audit Chamber and the Institute of Justice. In the area of protection of the child's right to decent social conditions, a total of 3 000 240 cases were reported to the Ombudsman in 2015. The Ombudsman asked the bodies of the institutions to take action or to provide information on, inter alia, matters relating to: maintenance of children and maintenance fund benefits, housing problems, including eviction, enforcement of maintenance benefits abroad decided by Polish courts, protection of children's meals, property claims against the child, grant of maternity allowance or survivor's pension by way of exception, procedures for granting family benefits, the granting of benefits in the framework of coordination of social security systems and benefits resulting from a disability decision. To this extent, the child's rights spokesperson took action in individual cases, but also addressed 12 general speeches. In his speeches, the Advocate General pointed out, inter alia, the need to amend the Law of 28 November 2003 on family benefits for the granting of a child-care allowance in the event of the birth of more than one child in one birth and the need to abolish the maximum dimensions of the single child allowance, the failure to apply the provisions of the 2 international law Convention on the Enforcement of Maintenance Claims abroad and Council Regulation No 4/2009 on jurisdiction of applicable law, recognition and enforcement of decisions and cooperation in maintenance obligations, where a citizen of the Italian Republic is required, the problem of the parent's non-compliance with maintenance obligations to the child, the problem of the chronicity of enforcement proceedings and the very low effectiveness of enforcement of maintenance claims, and the problem of increasing the threshold of entitlement to a maintenance fund. Non-alination is a serious social problem. Therefore, the Ombudsman has repeatedly repeated general speeches in this regard. The Ombudsman also spoke about travel allowances for children who do not have school cards in Polish. He also pointed out the poor technical condition of playgrounds or their elimination and the safety problem of children in playrooms. The requests made by the Ombudsman in general speeches have been taken into account, inter alia, in the following cases: The Ministry of Justice has sent a request to the European Commission for bilateral talks with the Italian party on the quality of cooperation between the Italian receiving authority, delays in the transmission of correspondence and the low efficiency of maintenance claims by applicants who are habitually resident in Poland. In addition, the Minister of Justice asked the District Courts as institutions performing the tasks of the central authorities to assess the application of the provisions of the abovementioned EU Regulation. Some of the Ombudsman's requests for child rights in terms of chronicity and low effectiveness of enforcement procedures were included in the Act of 10 July 2015 amending the Civil Code, the Civil Procedure Code and some other laws. An audit was carried out on entrepreneurs running playrooms and announced the development by the Office of Competition and Consumer Protection of the so-called "Business Halls." good practices in the organisation of children's playrooms. In the area of the protection of the right of the child to study in 2015, a total of 8 000 307 cases were reported to the Ombudsman. The Ombudsman asked the bodies of the institutions to take action or to provide information on, inter alia, matters relating to: assessing pupils, disciplinary responsibility of teachers, taking children into and staying in nursery school, organising school work, the content of the general education curriculum, the process of recruiting children for kindergartens, staying in a child institution chronically ill, supporting children with special educational needs in kindergartens and schools; correcting educational gaps and psychological and pedagogical assistance; unequal treatment and discrimination of children; safety and hygiene in kindergarten and school; the weight of schoolchildren's torches; feeding in units of the educational system; feeding children at school; the functioning of youth educational centres; the organisation of children's rest and youth; the legitimacy of applications addressed to courts and law enforcement authorities; bringing children to schools and kindergartens, including children with disabilities; and the frequently emerging problem of sewil. To this extent, the Ombudsman acted on individual matters and addressed 25 general speeches. In his speeches, the Advocate General pointed out, inter alia, for the need to amend the provisions of the law on disciplinary responsibility of teachers; for the need to define the concept of family and children legally; for the problem of applying a digital system of assessment in Polish schools; for the organisation of education classes for family life; for the need to take action in connection with irregularities in the functioning of special educational centres; for the provision of funds for education of children with special educational needs, including children with disabilities; for the issue of conditioning children's access to pre-school education from the submission of appropriate documentation on the completion of vaccinations; for the issue of non-university qualification by psychological and pedagogical counseling of central hearing disorders as a basis for a decision on the need for special education; for the need to extend the content contained in general education to primary education to primary schools on the subject of primary education, including the provision of primary education, including education in classes of I The Ombudsman gave to the Minister of National Education, developed by the Ombudsman's Panel on the standardisation of children's stay in youth education centres and youth sociotherapy centres in the fields of education, care and education, the standards of children's and young people's residence in these centres, which in the opinion of the Ombudsman will lead to the necessary changes in the functioning of these institutions. The mission and role of educational and sociotherapeutic centres is to prepare pupils for independent, creative and responsible life in non-institutional conditions. The content of the standards presented has been taken into account in the provisions of the Regulation of the Minister for National Education of 20 November 2015 on the types and detailed rules of operation of public institutions, the conditions for the stay of children and young people in these institutions and the amount and rules of remuneration paid by parents for their children's stay in these institutions. The Regulation shall enter into force on 1 September 2016, with the exception of §15, which shall apply only from 1 January 2017. A document on standardization of children's stay in foster care was drawn up by the child's Ombudsman. Standardisation in the Ombudsman's assessment will improve respect for children's rights in care institutions. The Ombudsman asked the Minister for Labour and Social Policy to take action on the dissemination of this document. In addition, the Ombudsman proposed amendments to the Regulation on institutional foster care. The Ombudsman's actions resulted in a joint speech by the Ombudsman and the Minister for Labour and Social Policy to the elders, submitting recommendations on this issue. The team's recommendations regarding the stay of children in nursing establishments are recommended in terms of the rights of the child, the rules governing the organisation of the stay of children in institutions. The implementation of guidelines for day-to-day work with children serves the proper organisation of both the care of children in institutions and the upbringing of these children. Since 2011, the Ombudsman has repeatedly asked the Minister of National Education to amend the rules on disciplinary responsibility of teachers. The subject of disciplinary proceedings against teachers was also raised in the speeches of the Ombudsman addressed to the Sejm Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Senate Committee on Science, Education and Sport. The Ombudsman also pointed out that there were no provisions to safeguard the child's well-being in disciplinary proceedings in previous years in the observations on the state of the child's rights, which are an integral part of the annual information submitted to the High Chamber on the activities of the Ombudsman, as well as in the recommendations addressed to the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child, contained in the Ombudsman's report on the implementation of the Committee's recommendations submitted to the Committee in July 2015. It should be noted with satisfaction that most of the Ombudsman's requests for child protection in disciplinary proceedings against teachers were included in the Act of 18 March 2016 amending the Teacher's Charter and some other laws. Other requests made by the Ombudsman in general speeches have also been taken into account. And in particular... The Minister of National Education admitted that it was appropriate to change the basis of the curriculum of the subject of family education and that the current textbooks did not correspond to the expectations of pupils and parents, and also declared the establishment of a team of experts, which will develop, among others. materials for teachers of this subject. The materials for teachers were placed on the website of the Ministry on 29 October 2015. Education curators were required to take measures to support the adaptation of the functioning of special educational centres to the provisions of the Law of 20 February 2015 amending the Law on the system of education and certain other laws. The Minister of Finance, in line with the Ombudsman's argument, asked the Minister of National Education to target the issue of the allocation and spending of resources by schools and institutions to carry out tasks related to the application of special organisations and special working methods with children and young people. At the Ministry of National Education, changes were started in the system of financing the education of pupils with special educational needs, clarifying the principles of education for this group of pupils. The provisions of the new Regulation on the types and detailed rules of operation of public institutions and of the Regulation on the conditions for organising education, education and care for children and young people with disabilities, not socially adapted and at risk of social impropriety, have become a partial safeguard for pupils with special educational needs. However, it should be pointed out that further changes are needed in this area. The Minister of National Education divided the position of the Ombudsman on the question of the legality of making the child's access to preschool education dependent on the submission of documentation on the vaccinations carried out and on the respect of the constitutional right to equal access to science and compliance with the provisions of the Education System Act. All children covered by pre-school preparation must be admitted to a public institution in accordance with the law in force in this respect. A consultant for integration and work with foreign children in the Polish school was appointed. Its task is to develop training and information materials on admission to school and teaching work with foreign children, as well as to conduct information and training meetings for school heads, teachers, students, parents and local communities. As regards the rights of the child to protect against violence, cruelty, exploitation, demoralisation, negligence and other mistreatment, in 2015, the Ombudsman took 5172 cases. The Ombudsman asked the authorities and institutions to take action or to provide information on, inter alia, matters relating to: neglect and violence in the home environment, physical, mental and sexual violence, peer violence, violence in schools, kindergartens, crèches and other forms of care, violence in educational, sociotherapeutic and rehabilitation institutions, violations of the right to privacy and abuse of children. To this end, the Ombudsman took action in individual cases and sent 13 general speeches. In his speeches, the Advocate General pointed out, inter alia, to: the need for legislative work aimed at enhancing the protection of the rights of the child by ensuring professional representation of the child in legal proceedings is so-called. a probation officer; placing children over 15 years of age under compulsory interrogation in friendly conditions in criminal proceedings; making changes to the disposal of the article. 41 §1a of the Penal Code in the direction of mandatory judgment of this measure when the victim is a minor; prohibition of taking up posts, occupations or activities related to education, treatment and care of minors... The Ombudsman also pointed out the extension of the catalogue of non-disclosure convictions and the catalogue of non-prescription offences where the child is a victim of sexual crime, as well as the amendment of the Act on Radio and Television in the area of the obligation of audiovisual media service providers on demand to store copies of publicly made available advertisements and other communications, which would be a condition for their subsequent review for compliance with the Act. The Ombudsman pointed out that the courts had problems assessing the behaviour of the criminal courts in the application of criminal penalties. The Ombudsman called for action to give minors increased protection against their use for begging. The Ombudsman raised the problem of unequal access to the Large Family Charter. I also pointed out problems related to the child care allowance allowance during the period of parental leave and raised problems regarding the performance of the school obligation by minors of foreigners. The Ombudsman also draws attention to discrimination, violations of the right of the child to both parents, protection of the right to privacy of the image of the child, lack of an appropriate system to control the designation of age categories of films displayed in cinemas. An important element of the Ombudsman's activities was the request for a detailed analysis of the proceedings initiated as a result of the application by the head of the prison in accordance with Article. 9 Act of 22 November 2013 on the treatment of persons with mental disorders that pose a risk to the life, health or sexual freedom of other persons and on the taking of actions that will best safeguard ongoing and future proceedings conducted in the manner indicated by the Act. The Ombudsman stressed the need to develop and implement systemic solutions which would require courts and judicial experts to recognise these cases before the end of the penalty for applicants. In line with the Ombudsman's requests, the Ministry of Justice collects and analyses information from the Presidents of the Appeals Courts and the District Courts on an ongoing basis, as well as appropriate action has been taken in the framework of external administrative supervision. In order to discuss the involvement of the Ombudsman in judicial and administrative proceedings, I would like to remind you that during the period covered by the information, an Ombudsman acting on the rights of the prosecutor took part in 231 legal proceedings in matters of parental authority relating to the determination of the origin of the child, in matters of adoption, relating to the demoralisation of minors, in the field of social security, in matters relating to the protection of the child's property, in matters of emptying the premises and establishing the amount of the educational part of the general subsidy, and brought an appeal to the Supreme Court. The case concerned the remission of the preliminary proceedings for actions under Article. 200 §1 of the Criminal Code to bring a minor under 15 years of age to undergo other sexual activities ....and art. 202 §2 of the Penal Code, presenting pornographic content to a minor under 15 years old. The Cassation was taken into account and the Supreme Court divided the argument of the Ombudsman. In 2015, the Ombudsman declared his participation in the proceedings by the Constitutional Tribunal and supported the constitutional complaint concerning the compatibility of the Article. The 10th Act on Family Benefits with the Constitution, and also put forward a position on the proposal of a group of Members at the 7th Sejm on the compatibility with the Constitution of certain provisions of the Anti-Family Violence Act. In the field of control on its own initiative or on the grounds of notification, the Ombudsman of the rights of the child in cooperation with the Supreme Audit Office has analysed the 33 custody files identified by NIK, in which the children of the family were removed by the decision of the courts. The examination of legal proceedings did not reveal a breach of the rights of the child. The analysis is included in the NIK report entitled "Activities of public administrations in a situation of danger of taking the child away from parents'. The Ombudsman carried out 162 on-the-spot checks on the child's rights. They included forms of foster care, youth sociotherapy center, youth educational centers, independent public health care facility, social services centre, women's hut, social services house and children's and young people's rest. The labs showed a lot of abnormalities. In each of these cases, comments and conclusions have been issued. The Ombudsman carried out an examination of the state of compliance with the rights of the child in 32 randomly selected childcare facilities from all over Poland, where children aged 0 to 6 are present. The investigation revealed irregularities concerning the placement of young children in institutional care facilities contrary to the provisions of the Family Support Act and the foster care system. A detailed description of the study is given in Annex 12 to the information presented to the High House. During the period covered by the information in the performance of his duties, the Ombudsman cooperated with the Ombudsman, with the spokesperson of the patient's rights, with the Supreme Audit Office, with the General Data Protection Officer, with the Police Headquarters, with the State Agency for the Solution of Alcohol Problems. He also took part in the work of the Interministerial Group for the European Court of Human Rights, in the work of the Round Table for Persons with Disabilities, in the work of the Interministerial Group for Combating and Preventing Trade in People. The Ombudsman also cooperated with other actors, including representatives of the world of science, NGOs, representatives of various departments, as well as practices. In 2015, the Ombudsman also cooperated with Parliament On several occasions he participated in meetings of the Sejm and the Senate, as well as in meetings of the committee, among others. education, science and youth, home affairs, local government and regional policy, public finances, social policy and family, justice and human rights, health, legislation and other committees and parliamentary subcommittees. He also participated actively in meetings of parliamentary teams, including in particular the Parliamentary Children's Affairs Team, the Parliamentary Anti-Obesity Team and the Parliamentary Deafness Team. Cooperation with the parliament concerned in particular participation in the work on the Senate draft law amending the Family and Caring Code and the Civil Procedure Code, the draft law on the Family and Caring Code, the law on the Civil Procedure Code and the law on the support of the family and foster care system, in the work on the introduction of the medical document of the child's health book. In addition, the Ombudsman actively participated in consultations on 32 draft laws, regulations and other acts. In the area of international cooperation, the Ombudsman should be identified in three areas. The first is cooperation within the European Network of Ombudsmen of the Rights of the Child, ENOC and meetings promoting the protection of the rights of the child and the institution of the Ombudsperson of the World in the form of inter alia. annual meetings of the Baltic children's rights spokespersons Last year in Vilnius A study visit of representatives of the Ukrainian Parliamentary Commissioner for Human Rights at the Office of the Ombudsman in Poland and the annual meeting of the European Network of Ombudsmen of Children's Rights, last year in Amsterdam. The second area of international cooperation of the Ombudsman is cooperation with Polish consular posts. It covered complaints of Polish citizens residing abroad, concerning the activities of institutions of foreign countries which interfered with the rights of their children. The greatest number of problems reported to the Ombudsman concerned the interference of social services in the exercise of parental authority by parents or carers and decisions given in Member States determining the whereabouts of the child differently. I would just like to remind you that when dealing with such cases, the Ombudsman has limited possibilities of action. It is not entitled to request explanations from foreign authorities or to initiate proceedings before foreign courts or other institutions and participate in these proceedings. For this reason, the Ombudsman used the help of Polish consular posts and addressed his foreign counterparts, spokespersons of children's rights associated with the European Network of Ombudsmen of the Rights of the Child. The third area is cooperation between the Ombudsman and representatives of European and international institutions and meetings in the framework of the promotion of the rights of the child in the world. They were conferences, meetings, seminars. One of the most important events was that the Ombudsman produced an alternative report on the implementation of the United Nations Children's Rights Committee's recommendations to the Geneva Committee. The alternative report is Annex 14 to the information. In 2015, the Ombudsman also implemented the statutory obligation to promote the rights of the child. He initiated events and participated in events aimed at raising awareness, as well as better understanding and understanding of the rights of the youngest citizens. These activities were carried out both among children and adults. An important element here was the cooperation with NGOs, as well as social advisors to the Ombudsman who, on behalf of the Ombudsman, participated in meetings throughout the country. A total of 58 000 children and young people attended meetings with the Ombudsman in 2015. By raising awareness of the rights of the child, the Ombudsman also met with students, including medical, legal and pedagogical universities, who will work with children in the future. He visited among others. universities in Cracow, Wrocław, Słupsk, Szczecin, Warsaw, Gdańsk, Toruń, Lublin and Włocławek. In 2015, the Ombudsman sent 15 letters of commemoration. He took the honorary patronage of 287 events, in particular those organised by NGOs, scientific institutions and public administrations. By granting patronage, the Ombudsman was guided by the criterion of the dissemination of the rights of the child and actions resulting in the improvement of the respect for the rights of the child in Poland. As in previous years, the Ombudsman's Social Advisory Council and the Committee on the Codification of Family Rights at the Ombudsman's Office continued their work, working on a new approach to family law, parental responsibility and guaranteeing the subjectivity of the child. The work of this committee is coming to an end. I think I will soon present to the High House the conclusions of her work. As in previous years, also in 2015, the Ombudsman held a competition for the best doctoral and master's thesis on the protection of children's rights. As part of the Library of the Ombudsman, 4 publications were published last year, including a very comprehensive document on the rights of the child. Documents of the United Nations. With the end of the 2014/2015 school year, the Ombudsman launched a social campaign on the day of the beginning of the summer. The campaign's task was to draw the attention of children and young people to the fact that courage is also the ability to make wise decisions, the ability to assertive attitudes, responsibility for themselves and loved ones. The campaign was directed to children from middle school age. The Ombudsman's second social campaign in 2015 was the campaign of Bita, and it's time to stop. Its aim was to publicise the problem of violence against children, to change social attitudes and, above all, to reduce the level of aggression and to approve the use of physical punishments. The social movement proposed by the Ombudsman in 2013 is also continued.React to violence against children. You have the right. Comments on the state of compliance with the rights of the child, which form an integral part of the Ombudsman's activity information for 2015, as in previous years have been divided into two parts. In the first part, the Ombudsman's demands to improve the protection of the rights of the youngest citizens are pointed out. In the second, according to the systematics resulting from the Ombudsperson's Act, I point out areas where authorities and institutions should take steps to improve the respect of children's rights in Poland. As regards the proposals implemented in 2015, the changes aimed at improving the child's right to health and life by sealing the child's fate monitoring system should first be assessed positively. This system consists of 3 elements. The first is to amend the content of the Regulation of the Minister of Health of 20 September 2012 on standards of medical procedures for the provision of perinatal care services to women during the physiological period of pregnancy, physiological birth, childbirth and newborn care. These changes prevent the loss of the youngest patients in the health care system when the child is not admitted to a medical facility to receive healthcare. Preventing unwanted negligence in childcare is the Ombudsman's request from 2008 and has been implemented. The second, similar, reported since 2012 on the medical document, the introduction of the child's health book as a state document. The third standard of medical treatment for the provision of preventive care for children and young people. Work is still underway in this area in the health department and I hope that these standards will be introduced into the law. The Ombudsman also took numerous steps to improve the availability of dental services for children and young people, in his speeches to the President of the Council of Ministers, the Minister of Health and the President of the National Health Fund, repeatedly requested systematic action to improve oral status in children and young people, and identified specific problems requiring immediate action. In this respect, the only tangible change was to implement the Ombudsman's request for free coverage of guaranteed lacing of the first molar teeth in children up to the age of eight. There is still insufficient access to dental services for children, while the number of institutions performing such treatments under general anaesthesia has been increased for children with disabilities. Currently in all voivodships at least 2 institutions secure the performance of these benefits, and in most voivodships the number of these facilities is 5 and more. A year earlier there were still voivodships, where there was not one. The issue raised by the Ombudsman in 2015 was the access of children to non-prescription medicinal products. According to the Ombudsman, preparations containing psychoactive, hormonal or addictive substances should not be available without restrictions for minors. Following the Ombudsman's action, there have been changes to the law on anti-drugs and to the pharmaceutical law, they enter into force on 1 January 2017, although further changes are necessary, in particular as regards hormonal drugs. Let me remind you that the Ombudsman of the rights of the child questioned the validity of legal admission to sell a hormonal agent without a doctor's prescription. At the time, I emphasized that the Ombudsman's consent was not to pass on responsibility for taking the medicine to the child. Since 2011, the Ombudsman has repeatedly requested that access in kindergartens, schools and educational establishments be restricted to food products containing foodstuffs which adversely affect the proper development and health of children and young people, in particular the problem of overweight and obesity. The provisions that entered into force in 2015 have met the Ombudsman's demands on nutrition standards for children and young people. The Ombudsman also took steps to better protect the right of the child to be raised by both parents. One of the most important changes made was the Ombudsman's request for a change in the family and caring code in determining parental authority in the event of divorce or separation of parents. Article 58 and Article 58 of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 should therefore be amended accordingly. 107 of the family and caring code, the dependence of the court's decisions solely on the welfare of the child and the statutory status of the child's right to be brought up by both parents. For the first time, the concept of child's right to both parents appeared in Polish legislation. Here I bow to the low High House for taking this action and bringing this initiative to an end by the Senate. In 2015, the concept of a child's right to both parents first emerged. The Act also removed from the court the obligation to settle relations with the child when they are held without conflict. The court, at the agreement of the parties, is to leave the parents of the child free to form these contacts. The Code of Civil Procedure has also been amended to harmonise the composition of the court ruling in caring matters, which will undoubtedly improve judicial proceedings. The draft legislative amendment, as I have already mentioned, was drawn up by the Committee on the Codification of Family Law, and thanks to the kindness of the two Senate committees, the Committee on Justice and Human Rights and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, the Senate has taken a legislative initiative in this area. An important change proposed by the Ombudsman was the legal regulation of the so-called issue. adoption with indication. The amendment ensured control over the adoption process, introduced additional mechanisms to safeguard the rights of the child in the adoption procedure, normalized the type of adoption that has so far been a common tool to circumvent the law and to cause the child to be treated in question. The new regulation reduces the so-called phenomenon. adoptive basement. Another very important problem sought by the Ombudsman of the rights of the child was the need to standardise the conditions of stay of children and young people staying in educational institutions, both educational and social infrastructure, but I talked about this earlier. In 2015, the Ombudsman's request for changes in the principles of intra-school evaluation was met in order to build a positive attitude between pupils and physical education classes. The new provisions of the Law on the Education System and the Regulation of the Minister of Health entered into force on 1 September 2015. A particularly important change requested by the Ombudsman since 2011 was the proper protection of the children questioned in the disciplinary proceedings of teachers. The proposals implemented concern the limitation of disciplinary misconduct, the conduct of a child's interrogation only in the absence of a teacher blamed and with the participation of a psychologist. The child's parent, legal guardian or substitute guardian may also be present during the hearing. This year's amendment of the Act. The Teacher's Charter has also taken into account many of the demands made by the Ombudsman. Fuller protection of the rights of the child during organized holidays for children and young people will serve as revised provisions of the Education System Act in 2015. One of the most important changes requested by the Ombudsman of the rights of the child is the fine for the organiser of the rest, who did not make his application to the relevant school curator. Such regulation will eliminate or significantly reduce the phenomenon of illegal leisure and will allow for the verification of the organisation of rest notified by the same organiser in the following years at the beginning of its registration. Since 2013, the Ombudsman of the rights of the child has consistently raised the lack of an integrated system of free legal assistance in his observations on the state of the child's rights. This postulate was implemented in the Law of 5 August 2015 on Free Legal Assistance and Legal Education. An important element of the Ombudsman's activities was the preparation and presentation of a report containing an assessment of compliance in Poland with the Convention on the Rights of the Child. An alternative document to the government contains information on the extent to which the Polish authorities implemented the recommendations of the Committee on Children's Rights of 4 October 2002. As I have already mentioned, the Committee's final recommendations are largely in line with the recommendations of the Ombudsman in this report. I would like to stress that much has already been done towards the implementation of the rights of the child under the Convention on the Rights of the Child. For what is still to be done, we are jointly responsible for this joint work on behalf of the children of the senators, too. High Izbo, thanking you for listening to this part of the Ombudsman's information, thanking you for what has already been done, I would also like to recall the Ombudsman's comments and requests, which need urgent attention. They are described in detail in part of the information, in the observations on the state of compliance with the rights of the child. Since it is quite extensive material, I will only allow myself to signal the most important of them by password. I trust that the government and Parliament will examine the comments submitted and the proposals and will take steps to improve the respect for the rights of the child. The right to life and health. The state of compliance with the rights of the child as regards the right to life and health requires particular attention to the 23 points that I have outlined in the information, including the quality of medical services provided to children, underestimation of paediatric and dental services for children, the need for an annual examination of each child by a pediatrician, the lack of availability of specialist doctors, the lack of medical standards in the prevention of child health from five to eighteen years of age, the quality of services and access to psychiatric care, insufficient efforts to improve the condition of children's teeth, the problem of overweight and obesity among children, the quality of maternity care, insufficient healthcare in kindergartens and schools, and further, which are described in more detail in the information. The state of compliance with the rights of the child as regards the right to family education requires special attention to be paid to the 32 points indicated in this information. These include the need for better support for biological families, the need to improve parental competence, the right of the child to be raised by both parents, the need to regulate the problem of so-called. Parental abductions, low parental awareness of the consequences of abducting a child abroad, the stability of the educational environment of children placed in foster care, the problem of young children being placed in breach of the law in institutional foster care. Currently, the Ombudsman conducts further national surveys, checks this problem; judicial monitoring of the fate of the child and his biological family; the length of court proceedings; the need to improve the functioning of the family court; the problem of restricting children living outside the family of biological contacts with loved ones plus others I have already mentioned. The state of child's rights in respect of the right to decent social conditions requires special attention to be paid to... I am here pointing to 15 points to which I would like this year.... I pay attention here, among others. for child poverty, especially in large families, the problem of homelessness among children A nationwide survey of homeless people showed that we have nearly 2 000 homeless children in Poland. I would also like to draw attention to the very low effectiveness of the enforcement of benefits, to the difficulties in enforcing maintenance services imposed by the judgments of Polish courts from parents residing outside the country, to the consequences of parental labour emigration, to the lack of safeguarding the needs of families with children, plus further issues which are described in the information widely. The right to study. The state of the child's rights in this regard requires special attention... Here I present the most urgent needs in 24 points. It goes on, among other things. to improve the quality of teacher training in practical preparation for work, the practice of assessing pupils' educational achievements In particular, it is about PE classes, music, plasticism, inappropriate supervision of directors of the work of educational institutions, the application of penalties affecting the dignity of children, feeding children in institutions, financing the needs of children with disabilities pulses further mentioned in the information. And the last point: the right to protection against violence, cruelty, exploitation, demoralization, negligence and other mistreatment. In 21 points, I point to the most urgent needs. It goes on, among other things. too high a percentage of those who approve of the use of carnal punishments against children, the need to act effectively against hate speech, the problem of being too willing to respond to violence against children, the need to tighten the penalties for violence against children The relevant document is currently being drawn up at the President's office, as proposed by the Ombudsman, is the announcement of a legislative initiative . plus further issues discussed in the information. High Izbo, I hope that this information on the activities of the Ombudsman will be helpful in further parliamentary work, which will help to guarantee even higher standards of protection of the rights and welfare of the child in Poland. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u413	Thank you very much. Would any of you senators like to ask the Ombudsman of the rights of the child, Mr. Mark Michalak? Mr. Richard Bonisławski, please. [[Yes?]] Yes. You can ask the senator questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u414	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'd like to ask you three questions. One thing's pretty lapidary. On page 378 there is a table that shows the number of court cases that... She's gotten a lot smaller. I'm talking about 100 cases. Is this simply due to a lack of cases or to your inability to participate in them? This inheritance is unbelievable. Another question, resulting from my private experience. I visited the social services center, had a meeting with young people there, and then these young people came to visit me. These are young people who are over 17. They came to me on a rather specific matter. They can't eat what they like, because a provision restricting the purchase of sweets, etc. is implemented in this centre in a very radical way. They say they can eat, but in front of the building... They're adults and they treat each other that way. They stay there for a short time, after 2, 3, 4 months, and then another fate awaits them. That's the other thing. And the third, I think, most serious. I read here that you visited 139 places of summer and winter recreation for children and young people. Surprisingly, I noticed that every fifth head of the facility had no authority to run this facility. And as I remember, because we recently approved all regulations and training regulations, etc., it was said that the curatorium issued permission after collecting documents that could be submitted either on paper or electronically. And that surprises me a lot, because either the parole board didn't see to it. Sometimes maybe with thought, I don't know. Or maybe somebody cheated, it's hard to say on the basis of just a dozen sentences today. So that I would like to know if any sanctions were applied to these dishonest managers and curators? Because they're as guilty here as those people who've been working with children. And recently, on TV, the first announcements about some scandalous events in the children's and young people's leisure area have appeared. [[Ombudsperson Marek Michalak: In Małopolska.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u415	Then perhaps Senator Kazimierz. The wind will ask questions. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u416	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Ombudsman, I have a number of questions; maybe I will be the first to ask what seems very important to me. Well, looking both at the entries on page eight and at other records of this report or at the content of the Ombudsman's Law on the Rights of the Child, we read that one of the five purposes of the Ombudsman's action is to take care of the right to life and health. As for the first part of this point, which is the right to live, it is not the first time, because I am doing it annually, we are going back to the topic that, in fact, you are here as if you are not showing any activity; in this 500-page document there is only one matter, very good and right, which is the statement on the windows of life, for which we thank you very much. And there was, well, like the problem of pills after day, there were problems with many other media activities, and here there is nothing about it. Here, as if you're a spokesperson... [[Ombudsperson Marek Michalak: After all, he is...]] I have not found that the work of caring for the right to life is taking place here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u417	Thank you very much. And I'm asking you for answers. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u418	Yeah, that's it? Thank you very much. I'm going from the beginning. Mr. Senator, as for the number of court cases, you can't draw any conclusions from the fact that there were more or less cases. It was simply in the year preceding the Ombudsman's official examination of the appropriateness of placing young children in institutional care, and then there were a lot more cases because he took them out of office, and now in situations where citizens were reporting... This year there will probably be more of these cases again, because I repeat this study, because I am still worried about the unresolved problem and the information that comes not only about the fact that young children are in institutional care, but that there are 40 and 50 in one institution, which is absolutely unacceptable and incompatible with the law on family support and foster care. Just a moment ago, a few days ago, I asked the voivodships for detailed information in this area and for action in accordance with the supervisory powers they were given. When it comes to feeding in facilities, I stand in the position that children should get what is good and healthy in facilities. And I'm concerned about the signals or the information on the authorisation of products that are not in line with the recommendations of the Food and Nutrition Institute. And let me just remind you that according to the Act on the Prosecution of the Truth of the Child and the definition of the Child also contained in the Convention on the Rights of the Child, every human being until the age of eighteen is a child. So, the 17-year-olds are in a facility dedicated to children, and it wouldn't be appropriate for them to do so. With regard to children's and young people's leisure, the Ombudsman is active every year, both in individual cases, in control cases and in legislative matters. And the High House received many requests from the Ombudsman to strengthen the position of the child, to strengthen the child's protection during rest. These files that the senator quoted are based on the office's controls. Every year I draw up a very detailed report indicating the institutions, handing it over to the Minister of National Education, who has direct supervision, also control of school curators. Now we have also managed to impose a financial sanction. I hope that it will also be applied to dishonest organizers. But these are some new solutions that are about to take place. The Ombudsman's comments are analysed, as in one of the last cases... Now, too, there is a review period, and it is today that we have tried to sum up half the holiday as it seems, and one conclusion that follows is this: the people to whom the Ombudsman has made comments are not employed on subsequent forms of leisure. So it's kind of a good signal about moving a person who isn't qualified away from their children. It was mostly about certificates of non-punishment. It's a certain novel. There were also requests by the Ombudsman As a result of previous information In such cases, those who were punished for sexual crimes against children were employed in colonies as educators and did wrong deeds, and the managers and organizers explained that they did not know that such a thing had taken place. Today they can't not know. They have a duty to check it out, they have a duty to have a specific document. It's, I think, something that should protect children more. And we haven't actually had that kind of signal since we introduced it. Mr. Senator, I don't have any information in front of me right now, but what the senator asked me is in the information you submitted. And I must say here that both the hormonal agent mentioned by Professor... the Ombudsman's opinion is in the information and negative. I was one of the few state offices that they issued, presented the health minister with a negative opinion on the regulation, and this was also indicated there. I'll show you where it is later, maybe on break. The Ombudsman also advocated children drinking mothers, very intensively. There have been many speeches in this area to several resorts, I think, important and important. This is also a matter of the right of the child to live. Of course, the windows of life... I think they're indisputable. They saved nearly 100 children over 10 years of operation. Recently we celebrated the jubilee of creating the first such window in Krakow. And it's kind of natural, but it's been the same position for years... I, looking at the recommendations of the Committee for other countries, already two or three years ago I asked the Polish Government for an official position in this regard, knowing that in a moment the Committee and us can ask about it. It was the same as it is now. So we are already at the report stage, before the Committee's question, making a concrete statement, not yet having this recommendation. However, the Committee has addressed them. But I remind you, it's non-binding. It is the Polish government, the Polish parliament makes decisions on this issue. So much for answering those issues that have been raised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u419	Thank you very much. Senator Grzegorz Pekkis. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u420	I would like to ask about the issue of the protection of children, Polish children, who... Polish children, Polish nationalities, which are taken away from Polish parents abroad. For example, by the so-called. Jugendamty, German troops, and Norway. Last year's case: Mrs. Agata and Mr. Jacek from Bytomia, quite a loud case. Are you involved in such matters, or are you helping these people?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u421	Thank you very much. You might still be Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u422	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! I have a question for you about a question you've asked before. I mean, how many such cases were there, if you have, of course, taken from Polish children outside the country for social reasons. And then there's the second line. How many cases did one or two parents ban speaking Polish with their Polish children? In how many cases you have intervened individually and whether you have generally participated in external organisations, e.g. The Council of Europe or the agenda of the European Union, possibly to neighbouring governments with protests on these matters?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u423	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u424	Thank you very much. Two questions are very binding, so you will allow the senators to answer them together. Of course, any case brought before the Ombudsman of children's rights, including an international one, is accepted, analysed and dealt with. I have already said that unfortunately, the possibilities of the Ombudsman are limited. The Ombudsman may act through the Polish diplomatic institution, through the Polish Ministry of Justice, sometimes through the Ministry of Justice, which is also the central body in these matters. But there is no way to speak to a foreign country, to request information, to investigate whether it was legitimate or unreasonable. Unfortunately, that's not there. Here I always automatically apply for special care and action to Polish consuls abroad, and then monitor these activities. It's like one path. The second path is the spokespersons of children's rights in other countries. It's the only problem I have here. There was a question about Norway, like Germany, Norway... [[Yes.]] I have recently received a reply from my colleague, the Ombudsman of the rights of the child from Norway, that he would gladly help me if she had powers such as the Ombudsman of the rights of the child in Poland. They're gone. He can't investigate the case individually, he can't analyze it there. He's just a general authority, he can't get into individual cases. And that's the first problem I've encountered. I have some support in the Ombudsmans of the rights of the child of Lithuania, Italy. But in Germany I have no counterpart, there is no institution of the Ombudsman. In taking matters concerning children in Germany, I visited several German lands, through our consuls, and I had meetings with petition committees in the parliaments there, because they are committees that somehow affect the activities of the Jugendamts, the only influence, because there is a very independent institution. I know that in many of our individual cases, we have managed to improve contacts and relations between our representatives and the institutions there. About the case... I'm not gonna give the numbers right now because I'm not gonna be precise. If the senator wants it, I can put it in writing later, but I'd like it to be fair. I've done dozens of these things, so I can say more or less. They did not apply in the previous year to the prohibition of speaking in the language, there were no such applications. But there were cases where it was alleged that the wrong decision of the services there, not necessarily the court, but the services, because this is the organization in one country or another... However, most of these international cases are kidnappings and the question of the Hague Convention on the Civil Aspects of Child Abduction Abroad. These cases of child withdrawal, as the senator said, for social reasons... The question is only foreign, right? [[Yes.]] Because in Poland I did not notice any case of taking a child for social reasons, that is what I said before. We've been investigating all these cases and the media, and so on. No case has been confirmed in practice either by the Ombudsman or by the NIK or by the Justice Institute, so here we can be calm. Personally, I always perform, but I also had two general speeches last year. But I've had them in my previous years. These are, above all, speeches to national institutions, that is to say to the government and parliament, with a request for international initiatives, because this is the way, this is the procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u425	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Żaryn.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u426	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! I would've done the last part of your statement on the answer to Senator Czerwinski's question. Namely, it is about collecting children for social reasons in the country. You said you didn't notice such a case in 2015. Well, we as media readers have noted. The question is therefore: what were the cognitive instruments that made you so clearly state that for example. Doesn't the Bałutów State's case in Niska qualify as an example of taking children for social reasons? Therefore, since there have been, I understand, cognitive instruments that have eliminated such a problem from reality, it is a great request that you give these instruments. However, if there was a case that was in such an interpretation compartment concerning the reception of children for social reasons, which was de facto a violation of civil and child rights, and parents Did you intervene in such cases in 2015 and did you have any effect? The second question is, in a sense, related to the intervention of the Ombudsman in a bit of a foreign area, but at the same time very close to you. Namely not only last year But we are limited here until 2015 - de facto, with the permission of the Ministry of National Education, various educational projects, which were introduced into the educational system, to schools by directors or by curatoria, by various types of foundations or other organizations, which were based on gender ideology, very clearly giving a clear message of information, anti-educational from the point of view of children's development. Question: Was the Ombudsman on the ground, intervened, trying to ask what kind of instruments the Ministry of Education primarily had in order to prevent such practices? And were these interventions effective? In what dimension? I also ask for statistics if you can answer this part of the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u427	Thank you very much. Senator Kazimierz Wind. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u428	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! Well, as far as the right to life is concerned, I have, after all, some unsatisfiedness, but I don't want to go through it anymore. We also talked about the window of life here. And basically, either my question or it stays rhetorical, because it goes a little beyond that... Well, what were the values underlying the UN Children's Rights Committee's position? The things we do know, but the values they've caused. It's like turning the subjectivity and the essence of the case around here. Well, that's kind of an optional question. However, in fact, this thread of taking children for poverty, which is what Senator Żaryn said before... I mean, yes, on pages 70 and 71 of the report, Mr. Spokesman writes that he is analyzing this phenomenon. So I would suggest, in writing, that the results of this analysis be presented... [[Ombudsperson Marek Michalak: This is it.]] But it is actually a little surprising what the Ombudsman has already said twice today from this speaker, which is that there have actually been no such cases, although we know them from the media. And the media was so clear about it. One last thing, at least in this round of questions. You spoke so much about these difficult situations of Polish children outside the country. Was it just Germany or other countries? I'm asking because that would be interesting, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u429	Thank you very much. Please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u430	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. As far as the senators' question is concerned, let me answer them together. Last year and this year we examined all reported cases of suspicion of child withdrawal solely because of poverty. And those that were in practice of the Ombudsman's office, and those so-called. the media, and those that have been identified by the Ministry of Justice, because these 61 cases have also been handed over and analysed. The report was published a few weeks ago in an address to the Minister of Justice. Let me send this report to the senator; he will probably be an annex to the information this year. This report As you look at this matter as a whole, it confirms the observations that earlier, last year... Because last year there was a study of the Supreme Board of Control, a large study involving over 300 families, if I remember correctly. The Supreme Audit Chamber referred these cases to the Ombudsman, for which there were concerns that perhaps... the Ombudsman, through the powers of access to the judicial files, had analysed each of these cases. In the case of the Supreme Audit Chamber, this was 33 cases, the data and the report are in the information for the previous year. And none of these cases confirmed that poverty was the main factor or the only factor. It may have coexisted, but very often there have been such phenomena as violence, the danger of life and health of the child, extreme negligence and further. Therefore, it is not possible to claim that poverty was the only or main factor in the decision taken by the court. By analyzing each of these cases very precisely, we cannot confirm such a thesis. I say this on the basis of the office's practice, but I am the third institution that has examined this matter very thoroughly, because the Supreme Audit Chamber, but also the Institute of Justice, i.e. The ministry institute that investigated these 61 cases... Somehow in parallel we have carried out these studies and the conclusions are similar. But, of course, I'll give this report to the senators because it's described in detail. In answer to the second question, concerning the content that could be reconciled to the welfare of the child, I would like to say that if such applications were addressed to the Ombudsman, they were also always checked. From office practice... In one speech, perhaps in a general speech to the Minister of Education on the subject of family education, I put some questions and comments, but in general I did not notice a major problem. This is how I'm going to say it, so it wasn't some sort of flagship action by a child's attorney. Perhaps in individual cases... But I'd have to go back to the details, too. Perhaps, as a result of the inspection, some recommendations were made to individual institutions. To answer the senator's question about... it's a rhetorical question that I don't have to answer, but maybe I'll say two words. The Committee drew attention to 2 rights from a broad catalogue of children's rights, and because of the windows of life they can stand in opposition... I mean, I don't see this opposition, but the committee was talking about the child's right to identity, which, as a result of putting it in the window of life, is disturbed. I pointed out that this is an important right of the child, of every human being; identity is something very important. Knowing that human rights are not hierarchy, it is not stated which is more important and which is less important, but that the first right is the right to life, then we can continue to safeguard other rights, including the right to identity. That was the Ombudsman's interpretation... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Well, that's the way it is. [[Talking in the O.R.]] And now, in what countries did the spokesperson intervene? Well, they were both European and non-European countries, mostly in these countries: Germany, Italy, Norway, Belgium... [[Deputy Director of the Agata Yasztel International and Constitutional Affairs Team: France.]] ...France, yes. I have a director here who deals with international affairs. But it was also, as I recall, Egypt, Mexico... [[Deputy Director of the Agata Yasztel International and Constitutional Affairs Team: Canada.]] ...Canada, yes. If your senator is... [[Deputy Director of the Agata Yasztel International and Constitutional Affairs Team: Albania.]] ...interesting, then I can make such a description. [[Deputy Director of the Group for International and Constitutional Affairs Agata Yasztel: We already have.]] Even we've got this. We can pass it on in a minute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u431	Thank you very much. No questions? [[Yet...]] Still, huh? You're welcome, Senator Wind.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u432	I still have a number of questions, and they seem to be important. Maybe in this round, two questions about school. First question. Mr. Spokesman has asked the Ministry... I'm sorry, the Sejm Committee. No, the question is why not to the Senate, but it may be less important to consider the system of grade assessment to be defective and to propose changes in this respect. Did you eat your own opinion, the opinion of your employees, or did you use any more sophisticated expertise? Well, it seems that the postulate in this regard is still quite debatable. The second case is much more complex, and I'll even have the difficulty of putting it in some good proportions. Well, twice in the report, there is a problem with the language of adult hatred and postulates in this area at school in the context of refugees, migrants... I'm listed as page 152 and page 392. I have to say, this case is so difficult... It is well known that parents have certain attitudes in this area, Mr. Spokesman notes that these parents have such attitudes, that you care about the children of these parents, and that, so to speak, through school, you try these children against these parents... [[Ombudsperson Marek Michalak: And God forbid.]] Well, it's dangerous. I may have scratched it to show the problem, because the problem is very, very delicate. He's called here. I would have to say a lot to reveal the subtlety of this issue, but who in good faith reads what I'm saying is understanding the intention that the matter is, however, extremely delicate, the more that some wordings are written there... I can open it so there's no doubt that I'll use the right words. We are talking about the polarisation of positions around the issue of the acceptance of the victims of the war in the Middle East in Poland. Well, it's a very detailed case, and we know that she's an adult who gives rise to tension, well, to children. And then there's the phrase: "The use of all the forces and means at the disposal of the department is such a language here, I quote." In order to support the school in combating the wave of violence inspired by the language of adult hatred. Well, I can honestly say that given the sensitivity of the matter of education at school, I read with concern on page 342 in the catalogue of problems to be solved: • Educational and legal action should be taken to reduce the level of hate speech. I must say that many educators, if they listened to and read it, would still be terrified that this is how these demands are formulated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u433	Please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u434	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Professor, Mr. Senator, a speech was sent to the Parliamentary Committee at the time, because the Sejm committee was on the subject. It was a time when the committee took action in this area, and discussed it, so she was, as a matter of fact, a natural recipient of such a speech, an opinion on it. I relied here both on analyses conducted by experts of the Ombudsman, my own thoughts, because I am also a teacher, a teacher, as well as on opinions of specialists, experts, social advisors of the Ombudsman. This is also a wide range of authorities that deal with this subject. As far as the second part is concerned, I think that the Minister of Education and the School are the appropriate addressees of the request for attention to be paid to a problem that needs to be dealt with exceptionally gently but in an educational manner. It's a matter of upbringing. It was that time. Please take a look at the date of this statement. When we heard information about beatings, insulting, ill-treatment, wrong vocabulary, and bad behavior towards people just because they were different that they came from another country or had different skin colors. This was even a joint speech prepared by both Advocates, Ombudspersons and Ombudsmen. I pay attention to this problem because not accepting and misbehaving with peers only because they look different, confess another religion or come from another country, are absolutely inappropriate and branded. We would like our children to be open and to be able to treat others in an individual way. We also want them, wherever they appear, to be treated as such.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u435	Thank you very much. Senator Wind. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u436	This may be the last three questions, because only the most important ones will be answered. Plus, maybe a little more reflection. Analyzing the hate speech records I was talking about, I compared them with the attitudes of young people on World Youth Day. There the Russian woman said that she was afraid to come to Poland, because there in the media there is such an attitude that Poles do not like Russians, and somehow there was no evidence of this speech of hatred neither towards Russians nor What even the interested ones themselves noticed between young Russians and Ukrainians, I'm not talking about Syrians anymore. Therefore, my caution and sensitivity in this area I'm kind of supporting it. I'm going back to the questions. Mr. Spokesman uses the words of foreign children. I do not know whether it is a good formulation, or whether it is not the children of foreigners, because in turn the report uses the words "young foreigners," so this phrase "foreign children" is probably not a good form. Second thing. On page 189, you wrote that you were addressing the Minister of Economy on the identification of computer games containing elements of violence. It was an inquiry from August 2015. I have a question about whether this answer has come and what it is. And one last question. In your speech, you said that the demands for changing the basis for family education in large part were considered right and introduced or decided to introduce. My question is: to what extent? I would ask you to tell me what these cases were about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u437	Please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u438	Thank you very much. That's very exciting. It's still in the context of the dialogue. That these World Youth Days have shown a slightly different picture and no such situations have been reported. I think it is a good thing that young people from all sides listened to the voice of Pope Francis, who is also a very good example of the subjective treatment of another man and attention to his problems. Of course, it's about the concept of a young foreigner, maybe there was some awkwardness as a result of the change, but it was... And as for the last two questions, the senator will allow me to answer in writing, because then they'll be more detailed and I'll be more specific. [[For two questions?]] For two questions, yes. It's about computer games and family upbringing.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u439	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, thank you. Thank you very much for your answers, too. I would like to inform you that the Ombudsman has committed himself to providing written answers to questions asked by Senators Jerzy Czerwinski, Jan Żaryn and Kazimierz Wiatr. I counted three of those situations, but I don't know if they were four. It was three or four, we don't know that, but it certainly is, more or less. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of you have signed up... [[Excuse me, they're reporting...]] Excuse me? [[They're reporting for discussion...]] [[I volunteered...]] Mr. Senator, we're signing in, and we're not checking in. You've been in the Senate for 10 years, so... [[11 years.]] 11 years? That's even worse. That's even worse, yeah. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[The senator didn't sign up...]] You haven't signed up, Senator. [[Well, don't speak any more.]] [[Voice from the room: But...]] Okay, here you go, of course you'll take the floor, but we're always talking about it. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u440	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I went out on the stand... I abstained from the questions because I am from the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, we had the opportunity to evaluate this report and I am therefore here to tell you that our committee has highly assessed the Ombudsman's activities during the reporting period. We as Senate have special reasons for satisfaction. The Ombudsman informed about the cooperation between our House and the Ombudsman, and we are pleased that the rights of the child through our activities have been strengthened. It seems that the catalogue of legislative matters that are to be taken up is sufficient for us to continue to join forces as far as possible in order to fulfil our tasks in improving the situation of children in Poland. Finally, as always, I would like to say two things. First of all, let us not build, God forbid, an image of Polish children's lives based on this very extensive, well-made material, because he is only talking about problems. It is always worth emphasising that Polish children live in great advantage in good conditions, in loving families, without violence, properly secured, and that is what we enjoy. And every pathology, of course, must be fought, and the spokesperson is doing an excellent job. And the second thing: I am pleased that the Minister has, however, taken action on the situation of people with special educational needs. I have always called for this, and now I see it in the report and I appreciate it. I would just like to point out that it has become an unhappy thing in my opinion, namely these hours, so offensively for teachers called card hours, i.e. in fact the hours that were supposed to be and should have been devoted to additional education for children requiring special attention, unfortunately they have ceased to be mandatory; they are only at the disposal of directors, which makes the situation of these children worse rather than better. It is worth looking at whether the directors will actually use their new powers. This is already in the new perspective and we will see in the new report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u441	Thank you very much, Senator. He signed up for the discussion. Senator Kazimierz Wind. You're welcome. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm sorry, Zbigniew Silence. The senator signed up earlier. There you go. [[Whatever the senator wants...]] Mr. Senator, please. The senator's speaking.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u442	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! High Izbo! I'm gonna cut it short. I would like to thank you very comprehensively for this report, which could be said to be huge and even upbuilding, because this is what you are doing. But I would also like to share the concern that you have expressed here that legal regulations are very poor at the moment and should be improved, especially in 2 points, which I say as a lawyer's practice. Namely, the issue is the introduction of an institution of a cassation complaint in proceedings relating to cases conducted under the Convention on Civil Aspects of Child Abduction, the Hague Convention. Because it is unbelievable that such serious matters are excluded, which are very often involved, in fact only in the issue of kidnap children and moving them out of the country. These are very complex issues, where the uniformity of the case law of the courts is most appropriate, and at the same time the complexity of matter makes it necessary for the highest judicial instance to establish certain criteria for interpretation and investigation into the specific content of those provisions, which are very scarce, because the convention, as this convention is written in a very rapid language, as it stands in the Convention, and the content of these provisions requires very serious interpretations. That's one thing. The second issue, which also raised my concern and which I share, is the issue that you mentioned that children up to the age of 6 and those who are up to the age of 10 years, because the foster care law first provides for a period of up to 6 years, and then that up to 10 years, should not be in foster care institutions and stay in large numbers, because it is supposed to be over 1 000 children. Of course, my concern now is whether they are staying because the courts have issued such judgments, which would be scandalous, because it would prove that the courts do not know the law, or that they have been placed there by administrative authorities, which do not seem to have informed the courts in breach of the law. Because I think if they did, and they had a duty to do so, the courts would probably have reacted and wouldn't have allowed it to happen again. Well, if they did, I regret it twice, and it's a big emergency about what's going on with the family court, which, by the way, as a lawyer, I don't have the best opinion, because I think it's the weakest segment of the judiciary next to the economic courts of my time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u443	Thank you very much. Senator Kazimierz Wind:
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u444	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Since the Committee on Science, Education and Sport has also examined the report in the presence of the Ombudsman, I feel it is my duty to speak briefly. Let me put it this way: big job. Yeah, big job, your spokesperson's job, office work. And thank you for that. Sensitivity? Yes, but... I mean, from the beginning, when the Ombudsman's institution was born in Poland, and I have to say that I was present and active in writing the first law in the time of AWS, there were such questions and there were such concerns as to how far the Ombudsman's institution would enter into the family, it would enter between parents and children. Of course, in the meantime, Polish declarations took place. Since the Ombudsman's first visit to our House, I have been talking about this. Polish expansion declarations, because we have a convention, but Poland has declared more. These are family statements, and so on. That's why every time I took into my hand the office was printing... It says, "Call the spokesperson." We know that there are cases where this phone is very useful, but there are cases where it can stimulate children to a certain conflict with their parents. Right? These are difficult matters, they are difficult to talk about briefly, in a House that requires a certain degree of verbal discipline. Of course, there are examples. Hate speech, protection of life, 6-year-olds to school In which... Well, we have some doubts, but there was such a strong political context here. I hope that this shift in accents in difficult matters will be that this minimum correction will be. The change should be made. I think it's worth saying something we didn't say here today. In this report it says that in Poland 1 million 800 thousand children are fed. Mr. Spokesman writes about 3,000 700 children who don't use this help because they're ashamed because they don't want to because they don't know. But one million 800,000 is... isn't it? This is also important in the context of the 500+ programme. We hope that the number of children who are not using themselves will be limited or that there will be some work together, much needed... So that these are my concerns, which I am presenting to you, by including them in my thanks or by adding my thanks to these concerns. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u445	Thank you very much, Senator. Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Would you like to comment on the votes in the discussion? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u446	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! High Izbo! I would like to thank you very much for these words, for examining this comprehensive document, in which we wanted to present the various areas of the Ombudsman's activities as thoroughly as possible, so that the senators can have a greater insight into what this constitutional authority of state control is doing. I assure you that the Ombudsman's concern is the children and the welfare of the child, the rights of the child, but in the context of good relations with parents, good family relations. It's also written in the Convention on the Rights of the Child, and in the Ombudsperson's Act. Any action taken is very carefully analysed in order to help the child, not to disrupt his reality. Phone calls and all the contacts that take place always go in this direction. The staff of the Ombudsman's Office of Children's Rights are very high-quality specialists, people who, thanks to their education, but also huge experience, take the best possible action, seeking solutions and assistance for a particular child, but also paying attention to these particular areas. It is very deep in my heart both to my colleagues and to me personally, and I have the pleasure and the honor of running this office for the past eight years. Thank you very much for listening to me at this late hour and perseverance... [[Tonight, tonight...]] ...but, I think, children's rights are an important part of our reality, because they concern 1/3 of Polish citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u447	Thank you very much. Thank you very much to the Ombudsman of the rights of the child, Mr. Mark Michalak, for presenting the information. I state that the Senate has read about the activities of the Ombudsman for 2015 together with the observations on the state of compliance with the rights of the child. Please read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u448	Five messages. The meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media on the examination of the application for the Law amending the Law on Copyright and Related Rights will be held tomorrow, 4 August at 8.30 a.m. in room 217. A joint meeting of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Health on the consideration of the proposals submitted during the debate to the Act amending the Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare and certain other laws will take place tomorrow, 4 August at 8.45 p.m. in room 176. Message three. Joint meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Local Government and State Administration on the examination of the proposals submitted during the debate to the Act on amending the Law on Family Support and Replacement Care, the Act on Social Assistance and the Act on amending the Act on Municipal Government and some other laws will take place tomorrow, 4 August at 8.30 in room No. 176. Message four. The meeting of the Infrastructure Committee on the examination of the requests submitted at the twenty-fourth Senate meeting to the Law amending the Law on Air Law, Senate Printing No 259, will take place tomorrow, 4 August at 8.20 p.m. in Room 176. And one last announcement, five. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances on the examination of requests submitted at the twenty-fourth Senate meeting to the Act on the amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act and the Corporate Income Tax Act, Senate Printing No 255, will take place tomorrow, 4 August at 8.15 p.m. in Room 182.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-03-senat-24-1.u449	Thank you very much. I'm declaring a recess until tomorrow, which is until August 4th, until 9:00 p.m. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 23 minutes 31]]
