ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u1	I renew the sitting and I ask Members to take their seats. We begin the third day of the Sejm's sitting. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Please take your seats. I don't think they can hear me. Please take your seats! [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Voices from the hall: Ooh!]] I cordially welcome all your fellow Members. Resume session. I would like to appoint Mr Sobonia and Mr Tulayev as the secretaries of today's proceedings. The minutes and the list of speakers will be led by Mr Sylvester Tulaev. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u2	I would like to inform you that today there will be a meeting of the European Union Committee on Affairs - after the votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u3	Thank you very much. The Sejm Bureau, having agreed with the Seniors Convention, submitted a draft resolution on the celebration of the 200th anniversary of the General School of Rural Farms. The design is in print No. 605. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this project. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Bureau of the Sejm has submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. The application is printer No 601. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. We proceed with the examination of item 38 of the agenda: a draft resolution presented by the Sejm Bureau on the celebration of the 200th anniversary of the General School of Rural Farms in Warsaw (print No. 605). Ladies and gentlemen, please rise from your places. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] I'll read the text of the draft resolution. The resolution of the Polish Sejm on the celebration of the 200th anniversary of the General School of Rural Farms in Warsaw. On the 200th anniversary of the start of agricultural education in Polish lands, the Polish Sejm expresses appreciation and respect for many generations of scientists and students of the General School of Rural Farm. In its history, the academic community of the University played an important role both in economic and intellectual development of 19th-century Poland and in the fight for independence. Today Główna Szkoła Gospodarstwa Wojskiego is a University which conducts research in the wider field of natural sciences, as well as in economic, humanistic and technical sciences, as well as training specialists in these fields. Many thousands of graduates of this University contributed and contributed to the development of Poland and the promotion of the image of our country in the world. Appreciating the achievements of the University of Poland, the Sejm of the Republic of Poland will support the School of Główna Gospodarstwa Wiejski in further implementation of its mission to serve the economic and intellectual development of Polish society. I ask the Sejm to adopt a resolution by acclamation. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on the celebration of the 200th anniversary of the General School of Rural Farms in Warsaw. We proceed with the examination of item 30 of the agenda: Appointment of the President of the National Bank of Poland (prints Nos 488 and 544). High Izbo! According to Art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 3 Constitution of the Republic of Poland and Art. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Act on the National Bank of Poland The Sejm appoints the President of the National Bank of Poland at the request of the President of the Republic of Poland. President of the Republic of Poland, acting on the basis of Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, submitted a request for the appointment of Mr Adam Glapiński as President of the National Bank of Poland. This request was served to the ladies and gentlemen in print No 488. The opinion of the Committee on Public Finances on the proposal was delivered to the ladies and gentlemen in print No 544. At the moment, I ask that the head of the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland, Ms Małgorzata Sadurska, speak in order to present a proposal from the President of the Republic of Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u4	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the President of the Republic of Poland, Mr Andrzej Duda, I have the honour to present Professor Adam Glapiński's candidacy as President of the National Bank of Poland. According to Art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 3 of the Constitution was requested by the President to the Sejm on 6 May 2016, i.e. within the time limit laid down in the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. Professor Adam Glapiński is a man perfectly prepared to act as President of the National Bank of Poland. This is guaranteed by his economic education, his academic achievements and his professional experience. Professor Adam Glapiński was born on 9 April 1950 in Warsaw. In 1968 he graduated from Junior High School. Stefan Batorego in Warsaw, after which he started his studies at the Economic and Social Department of the Main School of Planning and Statistics in Warsaw. In 1979 he obtained a PhD degree in economic sciences, and in 2004 he obtained a PhD degree based on the Habilitation Colloquium conducted at the Warsaw School of Economics (Habilitation Colloquium). In 2013, the President of the Republic of Poland gave him the title of Professor of Economic Sciences. Since 1974, Mr. Professor has been professionally associated with his mother university as an academic teacher. He's the manager now. Department of Political Economics and Economic Thought History at the College of Management and Finance of the Warsaw School of Economics. The professor was also a lecturer at the Polish Academy of Sciences, lectured at foreign universities in Dubrovnik, the United States, France. In the 1980s, he was active in Solidarity. He was in martial law. Co-chair of the Underground School of Planning and Statistics. He worked at the Democratic Centre and collaborated, among others. with the Solidarity of the Institute of Aviation. In 1989, he became a member of the Civic Committee in Warsaw and a member of the electoral staff of [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] in Surprise on pl. The Constitution where he was head of law enforcement and vice president of the propaganda section. He was a co-author of a famous action on how to vote for 'Solidarity'. In 1990 he co-founded the Centre Agreement and the Warsaw branch of the Liberal and Democratic Congress. Between 1991 and 1993 he was vice-president of PC. In 1991 he held the position of Minister of Construction and Spatial Management in the government of Jan Krzysztof Bielecki. Between 1991 and 1993 he was a Member of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland and his term of office. In Jan Olszewski's government, he served as Minister of Economic Cooperation with abroad. In 1997 he was appointed Senator of the 4th term of office on behalf of the Movement for Reconstruction of Poland. In the Senate he was Vice-President of the Committee on National Economy and was part of the Parliamentary Commission of the Common Republic of Poland and the European Union. He was Chairman of the Supervisory Boards of the Export Development Bank, Centralwings Nowy Carrier and KGHM Polska Miedź. In 2007-2008 he was the chairman of the Board, the CEO of Polkomtel. Between 1993 and 2001 he headed the Institute of Economic and Political Freedom, he was a member of the chapter of the Now Poland Prize. In 2009 he served as an economic adviser to the President of the Republic of Poland Lech Kaczyński. In 2010, the President of the Republic of Poland appointed you Professor Adam Glapiński as a member of the Monetary Policy Council for a 6-year term in 2010. On 29 February 2016, the President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Duda, at the request of the President of the National Bank of Poland, Marek Belka, appointed him as a member of the Management Board of the National Bank of Poland, and on 6 May 2016, the President of the Republic of Poland submitted his candidacy for the position of President of the National Bank of Poland. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On 20 May, a meeting of the finance committee was held, where Professor Adam Glapiński was present. He answered all the questions of Members, answered questions about the concept of acting as President of the National Bank of Poland. The Finance Commission has not raised any objections to this candidacy. In view of the above, I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, given the rich scientific achievements, professional experience and the education of Professor Adam Glapiński, to support his person and vote in favour of his candidacy as President of the National Bank of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u5	Thank you, Minister. At the moment, I would like to ask the floor of Mr Jacek Sasin in order to present the opinion of the Committee on Public Finance. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wish I could. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] present a report to the House on the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance. On 20 May, the Committee on Public Finance met for the opinion of Professor Adam Glapiński as President of the National Bank of Poland. After a long, very substantive - I wanted to stress this - the committee unanimously decided to give support to the professor, the candidate for this role. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u7	Thank you, sir. I would like to inform you that the Sejm has agreed to hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle in the discussion on this item. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jacek Sasin, Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Professor Adam Glapiński is a well-known economist. I think everyone in this room knows perfectly well the person of your professor and his accomplishments. It has been active in the public debate for decades in the area of the economy and in the field of public finances as well. This policy-related activity took place especially in the 1990s. During this time, he was particularly active in debates on reprivatization and the reshaping architecture of the Polish economy. He always held a liberal-conservative position in them, with reference to the solidarityism derived from Catholic social science. At the beginning of the 1990s, he was in favour of moving away from the prescriptive and resolving economic policy that remained after communism as soon as possible. He is a proponent of the universal patronage of the so-called at that time. the nomenclature privatization, where new owners of capital became the most common owners of the equipment derived from the Polish People's Republic. At that time he was also a minister twice - he led economic resorts in the governments of Jan Krzysztof Bielecki and Jan Olszewski. At that time he was also in favour of the quickest universal reprivatization giving Poland the chance to restore normal structures of democratic capitalism. Professor Adam Glapiński represented at the time, but also so today and all the time he was faithful to these principles, pragmatic, unambiguously pro-capitalist and pro-market views, but in a dimension not bloodthirsty, not predatory, but with a very strong emphasis on maintaining the principles of social responsibility and justice. After all, this sensitivity, very important in the economy, especially among those shaping the social and economic model, was lifted by your professor from his activities in the NSZZ.Solidarity. Mr Adam Glapiński publicly advocated the establishment in Poland of the so-called. The social market economy, which is also enshrined in the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, is still not translated into reality. From this point of view, he was always close to the so-called principles. Ordoliberalism. As he always emphasizes in his books and lectures, also in public activity, but he also spoke about it at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finances, he is a zealous Schumpeterist, a supporter of economic policy based on the economic theory of the famous economist Joseph Schumpeter. The combination of an efficient, competitive and above all innovative capitalist economy with an efficient and democratic one, and unbureaucratized one, which is worth emphasising, the state, is the key to the welfare of Poles according to Professor Adam Glapiński. Professor Adam Glapiński is a man who, if elected in the National Bank of Poland, will not be new in this area of activity. In 2010 and 2016, as Minister Sadurska said, he was a member of the Monetary Policy Council and has recently been appointed and is a member of the Management Board of the National Bank of Poland. He knows the bank from the lining, he knows the problems that will face him as president of the National Bank of Poland, and he will be able to deal with these problems from the march. Moreover, as a member of the Monetary Policy Council, he became known as a supporter of classical and conservative monetary policy, in a good sense, aimed both at stabilising price levels and at maintaining macroeconomic balance in the economy. In answer to numerous questions of the members of the Committee on Public Finance, he also deepened the description of his views, presented the intentions he wants to implement as President of the National Bank of Poland. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] And I think that the best recommendation for your President - for your Professor yet, not for the President, I hope, in a moment - is that the Committee on Public Finance unambiguously and unanimously assessed his candidacy as President of the National Bank of Poland. Also the club Law and Justice in this vote, which will take place in a moment, taking into account everything I have said, that is, especially this conviction about the social dimension of the economy and about the need for accelerated development of our country, which will translate directly into the situation of all our citizens, also because of this, because of these views, will clearly support the candidacy of Prof. Adam Glapiński as President of the National Bank of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u9	There you go. Mrs Izabela Leszczyn, Parliamentary Club, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! In this debate, we should talk about Prof. Glapiński, his competences, qualifications, his achievements, qualifications for one of the highest positions in the country. But neither the professor's knowledge nor his qualifications are, unfortunately, the essence of today's debate. The essence of today's debate is the independence of the National Bank of Poland. [[Applause]] The National Bank of Poland has a very strong position. This position is guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Poland and the Act on the National Bank of Poland. Thus independence is a fundamental feature of the National Bank of Poland. But unfortunately, independent institutions are a dying species in Poland under the rule of Law and Justice. [[Applause]] After all, it seemed that the position of the Constitutional Tribunal was also obvious and guaranteed by the Constitution. It also seemed that the President of the Republic of Poland, the most important person in the country, also had independence. It seemed because reality is extremely different. So how will it be with the independence of the President of the National Bank of Poland, who is one of the closest associates of Jarosław Kaczyński, co-founder of the Centre Agreement? Couldn't you really find a good candidate outside your party and political environment? [[From the PO community.]] The National Bank of Poland should support the economic policy of the government, but in so far as this does not undermine the fundamental, basic goal of the National Bank of Poland, i.e. maintain a stable level of prices. However, we have heard numerous questions from Members of the PiS about whether the central bank's reserves are too high. Mr President's experts are wondering whether the National Bank of Poland should not lend loans to banks to convert franc credits. [[Get to the point.]] Finally, the SKOK-i - the infamous hero of the last days in the Seym and Senate - propose that the National Bank of Poland grant short-term loans to the SKOKs, i.e. de facto, that the National Bank of Poland take over the stabilizing role of the National Bank of Poland. Moreover, the SKOKs want it to grant loans, refinancing loans to Kasie Krajowej without adequate collateral. And the work on the Bank Guarantee Fund Act has unfortunately shown that SKOKs often have a stronger position than the Minister of Finance. [[Get to the point.]] Hence my question: Who will have a stronger position - Prof. Glapiński or Senator Bierecki? [[Applause]] [[Donald Tusk.]] [[That's a good question.]] Prof. Glapiński, the Civic Platform keeps your thumbs crossed because your attitude will be very important, it will be important for the security of the financial system in Poland, as most of the parliament will surely elect you as President of the National Bank of Poland. Unfortunately, in our opinion, you will not effectively defend the independence of the National Bank of Poland. Therefore, the Civic Platform Club will vote against this candidacy. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh!]] [[But she surprised me.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u11	Thank you, Member. Of course, if we are talking about elections, please, the President of the National Bank of Poland now elects the Sejm by majority, not by majority of the Sejm. There's a fundamental difference. There you go, Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, Kukiz Poselski Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Before I go to the point, which is to assess Professor Glapiński as a candidate for NBP president, I will refer for a moment to what the representative of the Civic Platform Club said. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] It is true that the NBP president should be an apolitical person, but if memory serves me correctly, the former NBP presidents, especially Mrs Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz and Marek Belka, were not among the most apolitical representatives we can imagine. [[Applause]] [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasinska: And here you are mistaken.]] We owe these previous presidents from the country to the very weak competitiveness of the banking sector and the highest margins in the banking sector in the history of the European Union. The banks have never demanded so much from so many Polish citizens, the loans have never been so expensive, the margins have not been so high. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] President Glapiński, we expect you as President of the NBP to ensure that margins are not above average and that Poles take loans in Polish banks with decent margins. Why do we have a problem with franc credits? Because the margins for Polish gold loans were indecently high and citizens, who were not creditworthy, and who needed housing, fell into a trap of what were loans in Swiss francs. If the margins in the case of loans granted in zlotys are at a decent level, and this is what we expect - on an average level rather than on a above average level, giving more than average profits to the banking sector managed by the presidents from the granting of the Civic Platform - then there will be no problems with franc credits such as they are at the moment. I'm getting to the bottom of this. President Adam Glapiński, Prof. Adam Glapiński, and perhaps in a moment President Adam Glapiński, is a Schumpenerist, he is a supporter of the view that the role of the elite in shaping the economic system, in shaping economic growth is invaluable. In my private opinion, this view is very similar to the views of Mr Morawiecki's Deputy Prime Minister. And I hope that you will complement yourselves - despite the independence of the National Bank of Poland - as part of the programme that you intend to implement. I hope that Schumpeter's theory that the economic cycles are primarily based on innovative breakthroughs, technological breakthroughs, you will be able to apply them in practice and that we will all benefit from it. I don't exactly share that view, but I do. As regards the challenges facing the National Bank of Poland, we expect you to respond adequately to the upcoming second crisis of commercial banks in Europe. We fear that what happened in 2008 may come again. The President of the National Bank of Poland should already work today to safely lead us through the expected second wave of crisis in terms of commercial banking in the world and, above all, in western Europe. We expect solutions to disarm the bomb in terms of loans granted in Swiss francs. We expect you to support the restoration of the gold's role as regards the state's financial system as regards the banking system. Of course, we realize that restoring the currency based on gold is still a long way to go, but we wouldn't mind if you increased the gold reserves so that the security of the Polish currency is based primarily on gold. It's also important that it doesn't occur to you to encourage us for the adoption of the currency of a united Europe. Finally, one last thing. The top priority of both government policy and the National Bank of Poland policy should be mutual cooperation in raising the level of household savings. Without raising the level of household savings, there is no long-term, healthy economic growth. You know that. So it is high time to join forces and propose to Poles some simple or complex economic mechanism, which will result in a significant increase in the tendency of households to save. Without this, there will be no economic growth in the long term. The Poselski Kukiz Club15 will support the appointment of Professor Adam Glapiński as President of the National Bank of Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u13	There you go. Mr Ryszard Petru, the Modern Parliamentary Club, will speak. [[Game in the O.R.]] However, I would ask you to listen to the debate that is currently taking place in the Sejm. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u14	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The election of the President of the NBP is one of the most important economic decisions of the Sejm. The independence of the National Bank of Poland is the foundation of the safety of the day-to-day Poles. Today we do not only decide who will take one of the most important positions in Poland, but also decide whether Polish families will be able to meet basic needs in the future. And this threat is real, not just theoretical. There's no need to reach. a long memory to remember what Poland looked like with empty shelves and galloping inflation. There were times when the central bank was the party's armed arm. It ended in economic collapse, hyperinflation, emigration and hopelessness. [[Game in the O.R.]] Marshal, can we silence the Sejm? Mr. Marshal, can we shut up a little bit? It would be good to remind that the Polish People's Republic fell among others. Because our country has been indebted irresponsiblely. Incompetent party activists indebted Poland, without thinking about the consequences, without thinking about what would happen, if they left. Listen to the lack of money, it was printed by the National Bank of Poland. Then, in the Polish People's Republic, they also said that money was enough for everything. And if something didn't work out, it was always the opposition or abroad. Unfortunately, now there are similar temptations. There are similar arguments to those of those days. Similarly, the inability of the rulers is explained. The inability of the rulers is now being imposed on the opposition or abroad. Ladies and gentlemen, in Poland in the economy problems will now rise. There's no money left for basic needs. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] There's nothing to finance your uncounted promises. You're throwing money away with a light hand. In the Presidential Palace there are other uncounted proposals for the franchise. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] One cost 80 billion, the other - 40 billion, and no one even knows how to calculate this fair course. You make illusions by telling people you're about to solve their problems. [[The financial spokesman suggested it.]] But these are just illusions. What's the cost? Nobody knows. Who's gonna pay for this? No one's talking about it. The previous government has made a leap towards pension savings collected in open pension funds, we've been robbed of our contributions, and now this government wants to do the same, only by the way wants to nationalize private companies. [[Get to the point!]] You give all Poles cheap apartments that you want to give just before the election. You're giving me a tax-free amount. [[And what does that have to do with the NBP president?]] You're shaking left and right with our money. President Duda promised he'd have enough for everything. Either he lied or he didn't know. Money isn't enough. You can already see that you don't have them for the 500+ programme or for the lower retirement age, you don't have them to increase the tax-free amount. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] He's not gonna be at the apartment either. The money's gonna be empty soon. A government that doesn't count, a government that promises for nothing future generations, is a bad government. But the most important thing is this government that's gonna get NBP to print money. [[Who wrote this to you?]] [[Get to the point!]] Such a government would be a government of national treason. As the time goes by, you're gonna be running out of money. Prime Minister, I'd like your attention. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] A good change will end in a nervous change. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Modern, listen up.]] I have serious concerns that there will be increasing pressure on the National Bank of Poland to print money. Let me remind you that your former coalitionist Andrzej Lepper had such temptations. You were in the coalition with Self-Defense, don't be shy about it. And printing money must end in hyperinflation. If you print money, the price of bread with 2.5 PLN... [[Get to the point, man, get to the point.]] I'll explain it to you to make you understand. The price of bread from 2.5 PLN will jump to 15 PLN. That's inflation, that prices are rising faster than you'd expect. Retirement will then be much less buyable than today. This was the case 30 years ago in Poland and President Kaczyński should remember this. That's why I expect a clear declaration from the PiS, from you... [[Get to the point!]] ...that you won't print the money, you won't force the national bank to print the money. I would also expect a clear declaration from the President of the NBP that he will not bow under the pressure of the environment from which he comes and will never agree to a policy incompatible with the Polish state, but which can favour the only right party. We know the government has trouble using the printer, but in this particular case, I must insist that you stay away from the printer. Prof. Glapiński knows what the irresponsible threat is. [[♪ The bell ♪]] central bank policy. We're concerned about his close relationship with the president of the PiS. The question is: whether you are responsible for the state or whether you are responsible for the PiS. But we will abstain. We're not a total opposition. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[The voice from the hall: Oh, dear!]] We will abstain, we are not a total opposition. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Don't lie to me.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Kaczyński is asking for the floor. In formal mode. [[Applause]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u16	Thank you very much. I have a favor to ask your marshal, but he's a bit of a reprimand for his arrogant remarks, because I understand that there are only legitimate interests that Mr. Petru represents here, [[Applause]] only they with the representation of interests of Polish society, Poland, the Polish people have nothing in common. [[Long-term applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u17	There you go. Mrs Ewa Kopacz has the floor, also in a formal manner.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u18	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I actually asked your marshal to explain to the High House how you allowed President Kaczyński to speak. [[Applause]] [[The same way you're in.]] [[Formal conclusion.]] I want to ask if President Kaczyński filed a formal application because I didn't see it. Did you notice? [[Do you?]] I would like the Marshal to be very serious now and respect the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and therefore treat all Members equally in this Chamber. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u19	In the procedure of correcting Mr Richard Petru. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u20	Thank you, Prime Minister, for those words. Mr. President, I don't think you understand. Come to the meeting. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u21	Mr Jan Łopata, Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, will speak at the moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u22	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Prime Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I have the honour to present our opinion, our opinion at the point concerning the appointment of the President of the National Bank of Poland. High Seym! The main task of the National Bank of Poland - this stems from the Constitution, from the Act - is to maintain a stable level of prices, and price stability is low enough not to have a negative impact on economic decisions, including investment and saving. This is also the task of supporting the government's economic policy if this does not, of course, prevent the objective of maintaining a stable price level. To achieve this objective means de facto supporting sustainable economic growth, because that is, and in any case should be, the economic objective of each government. At this point, I would like to ask the candidate, Prof. Glapiński, how he sees these two basic tasks and what he thinks. But the tasks of the National Bank of Poland are also to promote the stability of the national financial system. The recent crisis has shown that macroeconomic balance, in particular price stability, cannot be achieved if the country's financial system is unstable. It is not only the stability of one bank or banking system, but also the stability of the whole country, which does not lead to social unrest. All these statutory tasks, the functions he performed perfectly - I would like to stress - at a time when the coalition of the Polish People's Party and the Civic Platform held power in the last 8 years. The main objective of the monetary policy of the National Bank of Poland was to maintain a stable level of prices and price stability is necessary to build sustainable foundations for long-term economic growth. And this growth, let me remind you, one of the higher economic growth in the world we have left new power, a new government and we are leaving the newly elected president of the National Bank of Poland: a regular labour market, growing exports and public and private investment. In the global economic crisis and economic slowdown in Europe, we have avoided recession and the current macroeconomic data is approved by international financial institutions such as the International Monetary Fund or the World Bank. The monetary policy of the National Bank of Poland, known as the conventional one, has also proved appropriate. In Poland, from 2004 onwards, the Monetary Policy Council adopted a continuous target of 2.5% for inflation. with symmetrical variation range of width plus minus 1 percentage point. The Council implements the strategy under liquid exchange rate conditions, adjusting the NBP's core interest rates so as to maximise the likelihood of achieving this objective. The monetary policy strategy of the previous Council and the previous President also supported the development of the economic system and the stability of the financial sector. High Seym! June is whether it was for the National Bank of Poland the last month in his term of office, under the current President. When 6 years ago it included a function in the national central bank, the reference interest rate was 3.5%. A year later, the Monetary Policy Council started a cycle of increases that raised the rate to 4,75%. Since then, interest rates in the National Bank of Poland have only fallen and in May 2015 reached the current historical minimum. Let me remind you that this is 1.5% for the reference rate. High Seym! Mr Adam Glapiński, candidate for president, has recently been rightly in favour of stabilizing these interest rates, although in the Monetary Policy Council he used to be a representative, as it was said, of a pigeon line, which was more in favour of lowering interest rates. This is the lowest level in our history - he said recently. Of course, it's not really that low because it's deflational. In my opinion, this level should continue until the inflationary price growth process, i.e. a better economic situation, accelerates economic growth. And I would urge new members of the Monetary Policy Council. As long as possible to stabilize and then start the foot growth cycle," he said. Let us hope that both I hope here and my club, on whose behalf I speak, that your professor's current normal, conventional monetary policy will be conducive to this stability and economic growth. We wish this to the Professor. We wish him well. [[♪ The bell ♪]] because we wish the Polish economy well, because we wish Poland well. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u23	There you go, Mr Robert Winnicki, non-member Member. You've got ten seconds left in discussion mode. [[But I volunteered for the question.]] That's 1 minute 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u24	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We live in difficult times. As we have already mentioned here, from this speaker, we expect that the second wave of the financial crisis can hit Poland, it can hit the world, it can hit Europe. On the other hand, we are dealing with consolidation, with some consolidation of the international usury nation against Poland. The last shares of Agora bought by George Soros bear this in mind. The international trade creed will consolidate its actions against Poland and all the countries of Central Europe that want to take over sovereignty. In this context, the role of the National Bank of Poland and a clear monetary policy is extremely important. Therefore, it must be made clear that what many Poles, as well as nationalists, the National Movement, expects from the President of the National Bank of Poland, is that he should stand clearly on the guard of gold as a Polish currency, gold as a currency that will not be replaced either in the near future or never by the euro or another. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's a cosmopolitan currency. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u25	There you go. Mr Jacek Sasin is asking for the floor at the moment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u26	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There were voices of concern here, whether Professor Adam Glapiński will be acting as President of the National Bank of Poland, adequately independent and independent under his direction. Well, I wanted the High House to ensure with full conviction that President Glapiński would not be the president who would meet politicians in restaurants. [[Applause]] And he offered to print money at these meetings so that he could make promises before the election that weren't covered. [[Applause]] And I am also convinced that Professor Adam Glapiński is a man who understands that for public authority the overriding good is not the interests of banks, but the interests of citizens. And listening to Mr Petru, I had the impression that you could leave the bank, but the bank never leaves the man. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u27	The President of the Republic of Poland, Ms Małgorzata Sadurska, will speak at the moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u28	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for all the votes. Thank you very much to those clubs which will give you the support of Prof. Adam Glapiński, the candidate for the role of President of the National Bank of Poland. But let me share some reflection. On 20 May, I attended the meeting of the finance committee with Professor Glapiński, who, as I said earlier, answered all the questions of the ladies... [[But this committee lasted half an hour.]] ...and your fellow Members. These questions were very much, as you can see, my honourable Member, who you are claiming to have lasted a short time, this extensive transcript. And there ladies and gentlemen were asking questions. Mrs Leszczyn, who criticized and accused you today, Professor Adam Glapiński... [[They were all in favour.]] ...that he would not be an independent president of the National Bank of Poland, that's what the professor asked you then. Allow me to quote the Professor's reply: Will I defend the independence of the National Bank of Poland during the rule of law and justice? It's the same in the times of every government. That's the answer that came out that night. I have the impression, ladies and gentlemen, that at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance the debate was substantive, that there were specific questions and concrete answers. Ladies and gentlemen, at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance, the Constitutional Tribunal was not once mentioned. Today, in your speech, you have raised this issue. The independence of the Polish bank, the President of the National Bank of Poland, is obvious, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much to all the parliamentary clubs that have recommended the approval of the Professor's candidacy. On the other hand, I recommend reflection to the Civic Platform Club in this respect. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u29	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. Let's move on to the vote. Let me remind you that according to the article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm appoints the President of the National Bank of Poland by an absolute majority. Let's get to the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the appointment of Mr Adam Glapiński as President of the National Bank of Poland will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. The absolute majority is 222. 284 Members voted against - 124, 34 Members abstained. [[Applause]] I state that by an absolute majority, the Sejm appointed Mr Adam Glapiński as President of the National Bank of Poland. We return to the examination of item 35 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on the National Media Council and amending certain laws. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Committee on Culture and Media for consideration. And this is where you came in to ask questions. Mr Wojciech Król, Civic Platform Club. The time for questioning is 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u30	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Today at the hour. 1 under the cover of the night Members of the Law and Justice pushed another bill, another night's surprise, another bill from the series: Party media. The Poles slept at that time, it was finally night. But I think they need to know that the applicants didn't answer any of the questions that came from this speaker, so I'm going to repeat some of them. Ladies and gentlemen, why last night after midnight? Why are you making makeshift laws? What was the purpose of setting up a special subcommittee, what was the purpose of public hearing if at night, under cover of the night, you were pushing another new bill? You are not only cheating Poles, you are cheating not only creative environments, but you are cheating each other. Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that if the Members of the Law and Justice listened to this voice that sounded at night, [[♪ The bell ♪]] from this speaker, they would vote against this bill. But you slept at that time. I'm asking for decency. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u31	Thank you, sir. For the sake of order that no more such questions be asked, ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that the time, i.e. the dates, is decided by the Sejm. The Sejm has decided to make such a deadline. Mr Grzegorz Furgo, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u32	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The night sitting and deliberations on such an important bill, and in an empty room, that's the norm. But it doesn't work either, because there's really no law. Another HR hybrid and nothing. The law, which was primarily intended to ensure the financing of television, does not exist. The company is in front of us at the bottom, both programmed and financially, because the ratings go down in no time. [[You're lying.]] It's never been so bad before. [[That's not true.]] The viewers see it and give a clear signal, and this signal is e.g. whistles, and this is unique, for the president of television at the ordinary Polish festival in Opole. [[Applause]] [[Get to the point!]] Because the viewers can see that this television is political. It's worth letting go, ladies and gentlemen, professionals, otherwise you're going to create another bullshit, but it doesn't make any sense, because this TV isn't going to be watched, because it's the Internet. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Modern Club requests that the law be rejected at first reading. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u33	Thank you. Mr Andżelik Możjanowska, a club of the Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u34	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! High Izbo! This bill shows how you respect the media. I asked the Minister questions he didn't want to answer. And he should really be ashamed, because how can one not know that such far-reaching changes in the rules require notification to the European Union. This shows only the competence or incompetence of the authors of this law. Today you say it's a bridge bill. No consultation, no debate, mocking the opposition, but you're saying it's supposed to be a bill consistent with your standards. I ask: Will the participation of active politicians guarantee the pluralism of national media? Are these the standards that will now apply? This is another staff setup. And you're not gonna stop this unprecedented action that the winner takes everything. You've shown history that only stools decide how [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's worth it and how you have to rule. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Elewarr.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u35	There you go. Mr Piotr Liroy-March, Kukiz Club15, will speak at the moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u36	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I have to say, I'm disappointed. I really thought that Law and Justice wanted strong public media. I was even convinced that President Jarosław Kaczyński, as opposed to e.g. to Donald Tusk appreciates the importance of public media and their role in supporting national culture. In the meantime, the project proposed by the PiS Members today is a sloppy one, made entirely of wood on the knee of a prosthetic. It's supposed to be a good change, it's just a change on the stools. I have repeatedly warned that the PiS is not prepared to provide public media with stable funding and new organisational governance. He showed this very clearly during the committee's work. Like the president of the PiS connected with electricity... Not like that. [[Voice from the room: That's not it.]] Friends of the PiS! You often shout towards the Civic Platform: 8 years! I'll shout to you: six months! You had six months to prepare this bill. Really. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr President, Minister Czabański does not even know the contents of this law, which we have examined, he cannot answer even the questions of Members and lawyers. He cheated not only you, but all of us here in the courtroom.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u37	Thank you, sir. Thank you very much. [[But he hasn't finished yet.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u38	Here's what I'm gonna say. I told you earlier that we are giving you a yellow light.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u39	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u40	Today, this light is red. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u41	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the bill contained in print 592, would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 208 Members voted against - 233, no one abstained. I state that the Sejm rejected the application and therefore referred this draft law to the Committee on Culture and Media for consideration. We are returning to the consideration of item 15 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy and the Treasury on the draft law amending the Renewable Energy Sources Act and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 551-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Maciej Małecki to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u42	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present an additional report by the Committee on Energy and the Treasury on the work on the amendments tabled at second reading of the draft Act on Renewable Energy Sources. The committee received 50 amendments. Two amendments have been withdrawn. The Commission voted in favour of 12 amendments and rejected 36. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u43	Thank you, sir. As we have heard, the committee requests the adoption of a draft law from print No. 551. The Commission is presenting amendments and proposals on which we will vote first. All minority proposals and amendments from 1 to 39 were submitted to Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Renewable Energy Sources Act. In the first amendment to Article. 2 (3) applicants propose a new definition of biomass. Amendments 9 and 28 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the adoption of Amendments 1, 9 and 28 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. Four Members voted against - 434, 1 Member abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendments. In the second amendment to the article. 2 (6) applicants propose to maintain the existing definition of a dedicated multi-fuel combustion plant. Amendments 26 and 33 are combined with this amendment. These amendments will be voted together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. The questions have been raised by the Members. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, club of the Polish People's Party. Time: 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u44	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have a question about the definition of a quality tree. There is a change in the definition of a quality tree burned in our power plants. Over the last term, wood burning in power plants has been significantly reduced. As it is harmful to the economy, to the environment, to the environment, it does not need to be mentioned. What is the objective of increasing co-incineration of biomass at the moment? Still contaminating our environment? Further questions: Does the Ministry have any idea how to protect itself against imports of biomass from neighbouring countries? The record itself that the biomass is to be used within a 300 km radius does not decide anything. Is there any way to control the carbon footprint from where this biomass will be transported? [[♪ The bell ♪]] It is often the case that the energy value of biomass is lower than the energy used to transport it. Does the Ministry have any idea how to protect themselves from influx...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u45	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u46	...biomass from the outside? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u47	Mrs Gabriel Lenartowicz, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u48	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! While the European Commission has not yet completed its complaint on Polish financial support, it is about co-incinerating, we are moving back to this solution, not ecologically and poorly in terms of innovation. We're going back to the 19th century. We will burn coal and wood, because this is not about high-efficiency incineration of energy waste from municipal activities, which the Minister is trying to convince us to do. The fact that we want to cut and burn Polish forests together with coal, eliminate renewable energy sources from support, can be read in this act. I ask you to vote against this solution and return to what was correct, allowing co-incinerating, but under civilized conditions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u49	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 2, 26 and 33 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 164 voted against - 272, no one abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendments. In the third amendment to the article. 2 (7) applicants propose, inter alia, maintain the existing definition of full-value wood. Amendments 4 and 35 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Mrs Gabriel Lenartowicz from the Civic Platform club asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u50	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you what is bothering applicants with the definition of full-value wood, which could not be burned for energy purposes. Why a new solution is being introduced, and it is the Minister of the Environment, because it is not environmental protection, that will decide which chrust, from which Polish forest you will be able to smoke in this hellish national boiler. [[Applause]] Will co-incineration be the only way to reach the level of renewable energy sources in Poland, to return to the 19th century, to the beginning of the industrial revolution? [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] [[How can you talk so ugly?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u51	To be honest, I can't comment on that. So we'd rather proceed with the vote. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the adoption of Amendments 3, 4 and 35 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 174 voted against - 227, 35 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendments. The boiler case has been cleared. [[Joy in the Chamber]] In the 1st minority proposal to Article. 2 in the added point 27a, applicants propose a different definition of prosumer - the final recipient. Its adoption will make the amendments 5 to 8, 10, 14, 15, 17 to 21, 23 to 25, 32, 34, 36, 40, 41, 46 and 47 unobtrusive. Mr Sitarski, the Kukiz Club15, asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u52	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The minority proposal concerns prosumers, specifically prosumers, citizens engaged in economic activities. I have a question: Why is it not possible to produce in micro-installations of electricity for the economic activity of a multitude of small entrepreneurs who could thus increase the efficiency of our country's economy? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u53	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 78 voted against - 358, 1 Member abstained. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. In the 5th amendment to the article. 2 in the added point 27a, applicants propose a different definition of prosumer - the final recipient. Its adoption will render the amendments 6 to 8, 10, 14, 15, 17 to 21, 23 to 25, 32, 34, 36, 40, 41, 46 and 47 unobtrusive. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 208 voted against - 232, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. 2 in the added point 27a, applicants propose a different definition of prosumer - the final recipient. Its adoption will render the amendments 7 to 8, 10, 14, 15, 17 to 21, 23 to 25, 32, 34, 36, 40, 41, 46 and 47 unobtrusive. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Here are the questions. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u54	Thank you. Mr. Marshal, nothing's been cleared up so far. I want to explain to you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Prime Minister! Why will a micro-economic person not be able to benefit from the energy he produces? If so, how will energy used in one's own apartment be accounted for? This economic activity is very often the activity of some hairdresser or small business activity, which is carried out in its own home, on its own farm. Why are we making it difficult here and complicated for the small generation of support and accounting for the energy generated? Why does the Ministry not support such solutions to include this small business activity as well? Can you answer that question for me, Minister? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u55	The question is asked by Mrs Gabriel Lenartowicz, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u56	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you what is actually bothering applicants about the Prosumer movement being in Poland. The whole bill is going to liquidate civic energy, because the prosumer according to the ministry is a hobbyist who will pay you to this luxury that he will install himself a small source of energy. And because an entrepreneur isn't a hobbyist, it can't be a prosumer because he's gonna want to make money. And making money in this country is the biggest sin right now... [[Not in this country, in our country.]] ...even earning money, even earning money for your own energy security, earning money in such a way that this security behaves at a fair price, making life easier for the state. But no, it is up to you to decide, it is up to you to have this button, which will cut off every citizen in Poland, when it is naughty, from the current. And it won't be the kind of citizen that can afford it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Even the windmill bet. [[Applause]] [[But it's already been done.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u57	Then we shall proceed to the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 208 Members voted against - 233, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 7th amendment to the article. 2 in the added point 27a, applicants propose a different definition of prosumer - the final recipient. Amendments 8, 10, 14, 15, 17 to 21, 23 to 25, 32, 34, 36, 40, 41, 46 and 47 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u58	Thank you, Marshal. I'm still waiting to hear from the Prime Minister, High Izbo. This is a package of amendments tabled by the Polish People's Party. They are to restore the existing state, which is legally adopted by the Polish People's Party together with PiS, [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] together with PiS. You voted for this during that term, you fought for these solutions so that producers could have fixed tariffs so that they could have a guarantee that they would be able to produce energy for their own needs for 15 years and deliver it to the grid. You're pulling out of this right now. What do you say to the citizens who have joined this process? Several tens of thousands of citizens have already invested. This amendment was strongly supported by all environmental communities. Numerous organizations, local governments have been involved in this, and you are generally changing it right now, you are withdrawing from the support of prosumer energy production, because what you are proposing will never work. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This has not been introduced in any country and it does not work anywhere. So I would ask the question: Why do you change what you have approved? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u59	I think you're asking for an answer to the question. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Mr Gabriel Lenartowicz, Civic Platform Club. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u60	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to... [[Member, what about the candles?]] ...to ask: What happened in the last few months that you changed your mind and eliminated the guaranteed tariffs? As for the guaranteed tariff, you voted in favour of this solution against the government. You're tearing down a system that hasn't come into force yet, but you're not proposing anything new, because it's so-called. A desert or rather indulgence system no one in the world has introduced. And you can't tell anyone based on what calculations you were bringing him in. It's like the Minister said: it's a political decision, and politics doesn't have to count. Only the citizen is counting, because the citizen has a calculated salary, and the citizen is counting on the fact that if the legislator decides something, he keeps his word. People of honor keep their word. [[Applause]] Does that mean you're without honor? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u61	At this moment, the Minister of Energy, Krzysztof Tchórzewski, asks for the floor. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u62	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! As far as the prosumer theme in this law is concerned, he has been scrolling since the beginning of the creation of the Renewable Energy Act. Most of the time, there was a situation of this kind that, under the title of taking care of prosumer, very many people sought to do so, and lobbied in this direction so that the law would be in such a shape that it would be possible to do business. We thought that a prosumer was a person who supported renewable energy sources and wanted to support them in such a way as to gain anything from it, so that, after the installation of a home installation, at least the cost of it would be reimbursed so that it would pay off on the one hand to balance it and, on the other hand, that the prosumer energy would cost less. And when we were looking for a solution, what was the primary problem? The problem was that the prosumer, if it were to purchase energy from professional energy, would be an entrepreneur. So we'd have to have every citizen who's gonna put it in their own place, for example. Photovoltaic panel, register as an entrepreneur. And we found a solution like this, it's a barter solution. We have raised in this proposal an amendment that will be discussed, from 70% to 80% of the share of energy consumption from professional energy in the amount given. Now what's our situation? Well, prosumer, ladies and gentlemen, is in a much better position than professional energy, because it gives energy to professional energy whenever it wants, when it is unnecessary, when it does not use it, while professional energy must always accept that energy. And on the other hand, we finally agreed that after all, professional energy would pay him 80%. that energy for his needs. In this way, we motivate the citizen to develop the market, we motivate companies to have as much equipment as possible to use the energy sold, transferred to professional energy in full for their needs. So it's pro-economic, and on the other hand it causes that all contact with professional energy is a request for two counters: the donated counter and the meter taken or in one counter will be settled. And there's nothing else. And we're going to have a real prosumer development. Otherwise, if we were selling, billing, etc., we would never get a prosumer, because a citizen avoids being an entrepreneur. Why would he want to be an entrepreneur for a small business? Hence I do not fully agree with these opinions, we are actually preparing a really prosumer law. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u63	There you go. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments: 7, 8, 10, 14, 15, 17 from 21, 23 to 25, 32, 34, 36, 40, 41, 46, and 47, will raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 173 voted against - 259, 4 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 11th amendment to the article. 4 applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph. 1. Its adoption will render amendments 12 and 13 and 2 of the minority proposal futile. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mieczysław Kasprzak, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u64	Mr. Marshal! Minister! You didn't explain it to us, because the bill so far states that the prosumer is not an entrepreneur, so please don't mislead us here. If you could do things like that in this bill, you could also do that so that the prosumer wasn't an entrepreneur, because everything is in your hands. But when it comes to 1:1, you're taking 20% right now. You wanted 30%, and you're only taking 20%, so this amendment that's been tabled is designed to balance this balance. If someone produces energy, they can use the same energy, they can take it away if you don't want to give them fixed tariffs anymore. Because using this formula that the Minister was talking about, you're destroying the prosumer movement of citizens, and you're supporting big companies. It's about supporting big companies. Why are you against citizens, these little producers? [[♪ The bell ♪]] We're not talking about a large generation, we're talking about entrepreneurs, we're talking about citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u65	Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u66	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Seym! We are dealing with a large social movement, a movement that woke up after the statutory changes that were adopted in the Ub. (a) by the votes of the Law and Justice. It is difficult to agree with the Minister's voice that it was the movement of people who wanted to make money. Those people wanted to take matters into their own hands. Ladies and gentlemen, you talk a lot about innovation, you talk a lot about new technologies. In this case, we had a great chance that Poland would be the leader of renewable technologies in Europe. We already have several large plants producing photovoltaic panels, we have many small and medium-sized Polish companies which provide services in the field of installation of these installations and design. It could really be a big sector, a great Polish specialty. We're destroying this specialty. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u67	Please. Minister of Energy, Mr Andrzej Piotrowski, asks for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u68	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! In this law, traders are in no way deprived of the possibility of using the prosumer mechanism. They are deprived for today, but only for today, as far as this solution is concerned, of the possibility of costing something that we regard as an amateur installation in the sense that it is not a professional one. On the other hand, we do not intend to eliminate prosumers in further work on this law. We have repeatedly explained to Members that, at the time when the issue of tax settlements comes into play, this requires very much attention for a simple reason: we cannot create a situation where the taxpayer does not fully know whether it can pay or not. I don't know if he can afford it. All those who did business appreciate the simple, transparent law very much. In the previous proposal, which was adopted in the Sejm, this situation was completely unclear, brought to a single statement that it was not an economic activity. I would like to mention that in the previous record no one was allowed, except natural persons, and so prepared by the coalition, PSL. Therefore, this law extends significantly the group of those who may be beneficiaries of prosumerism. On the other hand, we are announcing that we will be working to ensure that small and medium-sized entrepreneurs can also be involved in this movement, in which energy is actually produced for their own purposes in order to save money. And that's the first thing. The second point, raised by the Modern Member, concerns innovation. Ladies and gentlemen, the factories that produce panels are factories that produce in an automated manner - I had the opportunity to visit them once - these are very interesting lines, while this is a relatively small production. In comparison with the huge production in China, it is very difficult to create a competitive advantage. Therefore, building only on this mechanism to support these producers, that we will pay someone to generate energy in this way, is not a stable economic structure, because it is based on the fact that the law will order a certain part of society to pay for others to say that they are environmentally friendly. These are unstable and probably not effective solutions when it comes to how to build public awareness. This solution, which we have proposed today, is a solution that requires participation, i.e. on the one hand the desire on the side of the prosumer, to realise what its role is, and the state at the moment supports the solution to the technological problem, namely the lack of sufficient cost-effective energy storage on the market today. They, as we all expect, will be, but they'll be in three, maybe five years, maybe ten. So far, there is no such cost-effective technology. Therefore, such submission. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u69	There you go. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 11th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 173 voted against - 252, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 12th amendment to the article. 4 applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph. 1. Its adoption will result in the nullity of the 13th amendment and the 2nd minority proposal. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 12th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 209 voted against - 216, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 13th amendment to the article. 4 applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph. 1. Its adoption will result in the nullity of the second minority proposal. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The question is raised by Krzysztof Sitarski, the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u70	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! Is it true that the amendment tabled by the Kukiz club15 will cause, however, prosumers to get some breath, little of that, farms with installations up to 10 kW will also be able to use renewable energy sources? And is it true that there is a chance that this amendment, however, is very prosumer and will help with the energy security of the country? And that's it. I would ask you to support this amendment, which will cause the prosumers in our country to get a breath, despite all previous announcements, that this will not work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u71	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 13th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. The vote was 438 against 2. [[Applause]] The request has been answered. The Sejm accepted the amendment. 2. the minority's request is irrelevant. In the 16th amendment to the article. Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 (2) of the proposal for an amendment of the reference. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. Mr Sitarski, Kukiz Club15, has the floor. With another request or with a question?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u72	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Is it true, however, that there is an agreement? Amendment 16. is an amendment clarifying the provisions of this law so that the law is formulated properly and clearly. And here was the agreement and the modern Members, and the Kukiz Members, the circle, as well as the PiS Members. Is it true, then, that such agreements will be more frequent in the future? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u73	In fact, in the vote, we're gonna decide, [[Joy in the Chamber]] At least the way closer to the truth, towards the truth. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 16th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. The vote was 423 against - 13, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 22nd amendment, applicants propose to reword point 2 in Article. 39 (1) (a) 2. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 22nd amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 288 Members voted against 148 and no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third minority proposal to Article. 42 applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph. Points 1 and 2. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 78 votes against, 362, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. Applicants in the 27th amendment to Article. 47 propose a new wording of paragraph. 7. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 27th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. The vote was 265, against - 144, with 33 Members holding back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 29th amendment to the article. 56 applicants propose a lower unit replacement fee. This amendment is combined with the 39th amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of amendments 29 and 39 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 170 voted against - 271, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 30th amendment to the article. 56 applicants propose an editorial amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 30th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 270 voted against - 144, with 26. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 31st amendment to Article. Article 58 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 applicants propose a new wording of the first paragraph. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 31st amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. The vote was 280, against 161, and no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 37th amendment to the article. 186 applicants shall propose different wordings of paragraph. 5.7. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 37th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. One Member abstained from voting 294 against - 144. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 38th amendment to Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the application of this Regulation. Point 2 (1) (a) c and point 2 of the proposal for an editorial The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 38th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 264 voted against - 144, with 30 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Amendments 42 and 43 were tabled in Article. 3 draft amending act containing amendments to the Law on the principles of cost-covering for manufacturers in connection with the early termination of long-term contracts for the sale of power and electricity. In the 42nd amendment, applicants propose among others. do not add an article. 11a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u74	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Honourable Members! This amendment aims to eliminate the increase in the transitional levy. This law proposes a drastic increase in the transitional fee. What does that mean? The citizen, the recipient of electricity within a year will pay 96 PLN of the transitional fee. It's just not related to the production of electricity. The costs associated with the decisions of the country that were once taken shall be passed on to the citizen. I have a question: how does this fit into the energy supplement? Because we pay the poorest people an energy supplement. I think he's about 14 zlotys today. I have a question for the government: Are you planning to increase the energy supplement if you push through this solution? Because it's gonna happen that we're gonna take more from poorer people than we're paying them. So this solution is illogical. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is the government planning to increase its energy supply? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u75	Thank you. Mr Gabriel Lenartowicz, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u76	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Someone on the bench said I had hell of a mind. I don't think that's me. Isn't it possible to call the proposal to introduce - under the guise of support for renewable energy sources - in this new tax law for Polish families, a tax of PLN 96 per year, so-called. a transitional fee? After all, it was nobody other than Minister Tchórzewski who once negotiated this bill that was meant to serve something else. This is a negotiated public support programme for large energy companies in exchange for the termination of long-term contracts. And those fees were supposed to expire. And you fix them up, you raise them up. But not everyone, because the most energy-intensive entrepreneurs are reducing this fee. You thought that the guaranteed fees, guaranteed tariffs, which would cost Polish families 40 gr per month, were too expensive, and when it comes to 8 zlotys of new tax, unfounded and unlawful, you think it's okay. And these are your hellish thoughts. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u77	Thank you, Member. Ms Anna Zalewska wants to act as Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u78	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the courage and commitment to speak on renewable energy because I was the rapporteur on the wrong Renewable Energy Act. In one case against the Civic Platform, which at the moment pretends to be in favour of prosumer solutions, we voted in favour. We were against a bad bill that favored large entrepreneurs - the leader was just a despairing Member of PSL - just to care for small, prosumers. First of all. Secondly, as regards prosumer solutions in this law, the prosumers concerned were very active in this. Big business, big entrepreneurs have been cut off for the first time. Prosumers are behind this bill. [[Don't lie to me.]] One more thing I want to thank the Minister for. Thanks to this law at each school, and there are tens of thousands of them, a renewable energy source can be created that will effectively reduce the costs of these schools. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u79	As corrected by Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u80	The corrigendum, because the Minister is misleading. The Minister may be familiar with the education, but he's already on the current, you can see, not really. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Voice from the room: No, no.]] Don't mess with the people sitting here, in the gym, and there, at the gallery, too. Greetings, Mouths. [[But Bury knows.]] Speaking of prosumer, Minister, we're not thinking of companies. I don't know what you're behind. That's when she voted. We're talking 3 kW, 10 kW, 40 kW max, because that's the record. It was in that bill you supported, and don't tell me we were supporting some big producers. [[Isn't it?]] So, Minister, in the field of education, yes, in energy, no. [[Applause]] [[Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska: Mr. Marshal, one sentence.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u81	In the mode of correcting Minister Anna Zalewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u82	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Let me only give you one sentence to answer the Member's challenge. [[Voice from the room: In what mode?]] Mr President, not everyone has one education. It's called interdisciplinary. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] I have different kinds of education, and besides, sir... I am also saying this to the Member who discussed and wondered why the Minister of Education is speaking about renewable energy. That's because I have such an education. Secondly, there is a flaw in the Polish society, which results from the fact that the Civic Platform and PSL could not properly use European funds. We're on our tail for lifelong learning. I am just an example of lifelong learning. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u83	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 42nd amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 175 Members voted against - 258, 5 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 43rd amendment, applicants propose among others. retain the existing wording of the Article. Point 8 (2) and Article 8 Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Monika Rosa, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u84	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The amendment of the Act on Renewable Energy Sources can actually be called an amendment, a law on the promotion of black energy. It is not only that you are eliminating support for prosumers, removing support for small and medium-sized companies that are engaged in renewable energy, supporting black energy and co-incinerating, that you are really eliminating our safety. Because what energy is safe? Distributed energy is safe, not accumulated in several power plants. For all this, you still make all citizens pay extra money for it, so-called. the transitional fee. Why do you raise the rate twice for all citizens: poor, entrepreneurs, households compared to the rate that was in the previous law? Why, ladies and gentlemen? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u85	I would like to inform you all that if there are questions, please address them specifically to the rapporteur or the representative of the government. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[But who's the government representative?]] Because to everyone, it's... Everyone, who? We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 43rd amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 206 Members voted against - 227, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 44th amendment to the article. The 10th Law amending the applicant proposes to add a new wording to the paragraph. 5 and add a new paragraph. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 44th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 195 Members voted against - 245, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. [[Mr. Marshal, question.]] In the 45th amendment, applicants propose a different wording of Article. The 14th Amendment Act. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. [[There's a question!]] Mr Zbigniew Konwiński raises a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u86	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have an obvious question. Mr. Marshal said we could direct questions, among others. to a representative of the government. Who represents the government in the work on this bill? [[Minister of Education.]] Or the Minister of National Education or some other minister? I'd like you to, then. The marshal explained to us how Minister Zalewska spoke. [[Applause]] [[In regular mode.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u87	There is no government position, ladies and gentlemen, at this point. The representative of the Ministry of Energy is Undersecretary of State Andrzej Piotrowski, he may also perform. [[Where's the cook six...]] But in that case, I would like to remind you of the Member and other Members... Please pay attention to Art. Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 2, which shows that the Marshal of the Sejm gives the floor to all members of the Council of Ministers outside the order of speakers. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] [[Every minister will determine himself now.]] In the 45th amendment, applicants propose a different wording of Article. The 14th Amendment Act. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 45th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. One Member abstained in voting 304 against - 137. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 48th amendment to the article. 20 The Law amending the applicant proposes a different wording of the provision on the entry into force of the Act. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The question is raised by Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, the Civic Platform Club. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u88	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, As it happens, I organized 22 conferences in my RES facilities. The hall was full of interested, educationally, on the basis of the microinstallations of 40 kW and one 0,9 MW. I have presented to the speakers our, let's say, sweats in the form of our bill. Everyone like one husband criticized her completely. [[Voice from the courtroom: Your bill?]] This bill was supposed to be a hope for young people who are starting a business. What Poland looks like against the background of Europe, we all know. [[I mean, much better.]] I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that this will be in a moment - because you have the majority - the drama in our country. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And you will suffer the consequences, and that is the big consequences. [[Are you threatening me?]] That takes us back in Europe by half a century. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[I'm a little disappointed.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u89	Thank you, sir. Deputy Minister of Energy Mr Andrzej Piotrowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u90	Then I am surprised that you weren't at a meeting like this after you passed your previous bill... [[Exactly.]] ... because at that time it was not possible to conduct business on the basis of prosumerism. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Moreover, it was not possible to establish such an installation on the house where the entrepreneur lives, who conducts business activities in this house. [[Applause]] [[But please...]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u91	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 48th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 291 voted against - 145, 2 Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. You are asking Members to ask questions. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u92	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question: How do others do it? How do other people make it worth their while? It is possible to do this everywhere, and Poland is to be a country where nothing is profitable, nothing is to be done, the entrepreneur is a criminal, the citizen cannot free his own initiative and show that he produces electricity. [[Bury showed us how to do it.]] You're making it harder for them. Why should Poland be the country where the air is most polluted? Are you going to do something about it? Cities sound alarms, while we continue to return to co-burning - good solutions, which in some sense could determine the direction in which we are going, that we care about something, citizens' initiative, Polish energy, energy of the Polish sun, energy of the Polish wind. We're not gonna let that happen, because they're gonna do business in Poles. [[Eight years.]] That's what you think. Change your mind. Minister, [[♪ The bell ♪]] When he's...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u93	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u94	This bill, even though you're gonna pass it, isn't gonna work.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u95	Thank you, sir. Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u96	Mr. Marshal, this is a bad bill, and it needs to be changed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u97	Mr President, time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u98	I have a question for the Minister: When will the new bill be? [[Applause]] [[Sit down.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u99	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Gryglas.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u100	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Seym! This is not the Renewable Energy Act, in short the RES. It's an anti-RES Act. From prosumers it made the deserters - no, I am not mistaken, this term was confirmed even by Prof. Honeyk: the deserters - who, if they install photovoltaic installations on their roofs, will do this, please, for the sake of ideas only. Some of us will, though. We will do this because we Poles have some capacity to build self-sufficiency. We've got this ability from Sniveling, maybe even longer. We were taught by the possessors. [[The Teutonic Orders.]] Please, the largest beneficiaries of this law and support will be coal power plants, this is not subject to any discussion. [[Very good.]] In the end, a million electric cars from Mr Morawiecki's program will go to coal instead of pure coal. [[♪ The bell ♪]] energy from home installations of renewable energy sources. It could have been so good, ecologically, modernly, innovatively, and it would have been as always. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u101	Thank you, sir. Mrs Gabriel Lenartowicz, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u102	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! This bill is wrong, it's dramatically wrong, and it's from a legislative point of view. [[Evil as hell.]] This law is 49 amendments that have already been tabled at first reading 63 more and then 14 at second reading. All from the authors. And it is a law that has not yet been passed, and already the minister announces its amendment. All you guys can do is spoil it, just dismantle it. [[Applause]] You don't create anything new, because even those ideas that are included in this bill are dramatically bad, unrealizable. [[Voice from the room: Hell.]] You've invented constructions that are unmanageable. You're acting like a frustrated guy who can't pass on a driver's license and runs, and starts another car. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Voice from the room: Why not a woman?]] How far is this gonna go? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u103	However, I would ask your Members to speak more seriously. Mr Sitarski, Kukiz Club15, has the floor. You can't even comment on that. There you go. [[Voice from the hall: Go, Christopher, go.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u104	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! I would like to know about the next work on the bill, what has just been said. In that case, the Act should be treated as an accident until a new regulation is in place. It is known that the benefits to professional energy through this law are obvious, unfortunately the cost to the citizen too, the citizen will also bear the cost. Kukiz15 announces work on a new regulation, but in which all interested will participate. However, one thing must be remembered: RES must work with professional energy. These are connected vessels and one cannot function without the other, but there must be a consensus in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u105	Please. Mr Ireneusz Gaina, near Free and Solidarnia, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u106	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The tariffs guaranteed in fact pave the market and block the development of prosumerism. The net Metering system will have a positive impact on the development of prosumer installations to an unlimited extent. However, I would like to ask the Minister what was the direction of the Ministry of Energy, limiting interphase balancing to only three phases, without taking into account the balancing of single phase and two phase installations. When will VAT be harmonised for micro-installations and individuals? In the net-metering system described in the act there is a drain from 1 to 0,8 in installations up to 10 kWp and from 1 to 0,7 in installations from 10 to 40 kWp. What is the estimated period of reimbursement of these prosumer installations by the Ministry of Energy? Is the energy balance settlement period for prosumer properly specified in the Act? The record of 365 days is incorrect, every 4 years we have 366 days a year. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Operators can use this to their advantage. Why hasn't a period of the year been introduced to settle the energy balance? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u107	Thank you. The Minister of Energy is asking for the floor. Mr Marek Suski, Law and Justice. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u108	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister of Energy, because after listening to these speeches I have the impression that the situation has changed that it is not the state that supports prosumers and pays for renewable energy, but that now the state will be financed by renewable energy. I have a question for the Minister. What amount of aid is the state support in terms of renewable energy sources? All those tariffs, surcharges, even that 0.8 fare back. I mean, there's an estimate that this should be about 0.6. So we will continue to support the RES very strongly. I'd like to ask the Minister what order These are the amounts. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u109	There you go. The Minister of Energy, Krzysztof Tchórzewski, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u110	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to stress that this law actually opens the door to the creation of genuinely prosumer, civic installations for the creation of renewable energy for our own needs and with the transfer of surplus, so we are in such a situation that everyone will be able to install their recognised way of producing renewable energy without problems. I really agree, we say that if prosumer, it's for your own good. And actually, all the energy he's going to produce in his plant will be able to use. Secondly, bureaucratically nothing will cost him. On the other hand, if we want to answer Mr President's question, that renewable energy is subsidised, but it is subsidised by us, by citizens, by entrepreneurs. In each account today, in every 100 PLN account there are about 12 PLN of support for renewable energy. In Poland it is today 12 PLN. In Germany it is almost 50 PLN in 100 PLN. This costs us over PLN 4 billion a year as citizens and entrepreneurs. Germans cost €24 billion a year. And the Germans are already wondering how far they can go in this area and looking for other solutions. We do not want to repeat the mistakes of our predecessors all the time when it comes to renewable energy solutions. [[Applause]] That's why we're trying to make it renewable and cost the citizen as little as possible. That's why we're giving him these kinds of solutions that are supposed to be effective for him. From this point of view, this law is a modern law, one of the most modern in Europe. If we take into account the clusters we have not talked about, it will be the most modern in Europe, it is attractive and we will finally have citizens' electricity producers. That's the point. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u111	Thank you very much. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 551, along with the amendments adopted, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. In favour 244, against - 177, 19 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Renewable Energy Act and some other laws. [[Applause]] We are returning to the examination of item 3 of the agenda: the Extraordinary Commission's report on the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure Act and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 521-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u112	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present an additional report by the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications of the parliamentary draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure Act and some other laws, print No 451. The Sejm at its meeting on 8 June, in accordance with Article. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, re-directed the draft law contained in print No 521 to the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications in order to consider the amendments tabled at second reading. The Extraordinary Commission for Codification Changes after considering these amendments at its meeting on 9 June asks: The High Sejm must reject the following amendments: 1st, 3rd and 4th, accept Amendment 2 and adopt the whole of the Act. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u113	Thank you very much. It's the 521 Print Act. The amendments tabled by the committee in the additional report will be voted first. I would like to inform you that the minority request has been withdrawn. Amendments 1 to 3 were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure Act. In the first amendment, applicants propose to leave Article. 357 in the current version. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. The question was asked by Mirosław Pampuch, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u114	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! During the work on the proposed amendments to the Article. 357 The Code of Criminal Procedure has been asked by representatives of the government, representatives of the Minister of Justice, whether there are any empirical studies pointing to the actions of the courts which make it impossible for representatives of the media - the radio, the press, the television to consolidate the proceedings. And I received a reply from the Ministry of Justice that no such research was carried out. So if there was no problem with the application of this provision, then why change this good provision by introducing the absolute principle of the right to broadcast, which may result in prejudice to the good of justice? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u115	There you go. We'll proceed with the vote. [[Voice from the room: Minister Wójcik.]] Minister, I'm so sorry. Mr. Marcin Warchoł is advisable. I can give the constitutional vote to the representatives of the government or to the designated deputy. You're... Please, Minister Wójcik. In the future, remember that.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u116	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm a little surprised at the grouping that has the word Modern in its name. In the past, people were actually judged in the squares, so that everyone could see how this judgment was going on, then there was punishment, and then the execution of punishment. Then the whole thing was moved to courtrooms. It quickly turned out that these courtrooms were too small to observe what this judgment looked like. Then there was media, TV, radio. [[And Ziobro.]] And all of a sudden today, you're talking about the fact that cameras or journalists aren't really supposed to be in courtrooms. On the one hand, you have a mouthful of clichés about you wanting to reform the justice system, and on the other hand, you are opposed to the fact that society really controls what is happening in the judiciary. We're doing this for the judiciary. This is important from the point of view of guaranteeing impartiality, principles of objectivity. This is modern, you have to go with the spirit of time. The fact that there are cameras here, that's what it is - society has control over what we're doing here. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Justice is not and should not be out of control. Why? I'll give you some information. Well, ladies and gentlemen, 80%. courts are slow - 80% courts - 25% of courts only care about their own interests. [[Applause]] In one of the surveys it was more like 45%. respondents. 10% Says the courts are corrupt, 47% That's more like it. 50% our society has no respect for the judiciary. If you think this is our research, you're wrong. These are studies that were presented by the first president of the Supreme Court a few weeks ago. And it's these changes, the fact that cameras, the media, that's what's going on -- it's the ability to take care of what's going on in the judiciary. If we do not restore confidence in the judiciary, we will lose to the citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u117	In the procedure of correcting Mr Mirosław Pampuch. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u118	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Nothing more wrong than what the Minister said just now from that speaker. [[Applause]] At the moment, there is the possibility of transmitting court cases from the courtroom in its entirety. The State, on the other hand, would like to indemnify the court and introduce a total transmission, regardless of whether the trial concerns the victims of the crime, thus violating the rights of the victims of the crime to keep secret what was happening during the course of the crime. Thus, we are not talking here about excluding the transmission of criminal law, but merely about an absolute principle that makes the court incarcerated and condones the nature of judicial independence. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u119	Of course, I would like to remind you that this procedure concerns the correction of a misunderstood or inaccurate statement made by the speaker. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. There were 173 votes against, 253 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the second amendment of the applicant in the new wording of Article. 360 propose, among other things, that the hearing be open if the prosecutor opposes the exclusion of disclosure. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The adoption of this amendment will render the 3rd amendment futile. The questions are raised by Members. Mr Mirosław Pampuch, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u120	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I am very pleased that the Law and Justice have made a reflection and withdrawn the request of minorities, on the basis of which they wanted to introduce the privileged position of the prosecutor in the courtroom and thus reconcile directly the principle of judicial independence and independence and the principle of three divisions of power. At the moment, however, we are looking at a rule that also raises no less emotion, because in this case we are dealing with an exclusion of the possibility, excluding the transparency of the trial against the accused because of his important private interest. Thus, other standards are applied to the accused and other standards are applied to other subjects of the proceedings. It is absolutely against the rights of the defendant to defend himself. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It is absolutely against the principle of presumption of innocence. Let me remind you, the defendant is not convicted yet. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u121	Mr Arkadiusz Myrch, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u122	Mr. Marshal! Minister! If you think the presence of cameras in the courtroom will speed up the criminal trial, you're in big error. [[Voice from the room: What are you afraid of?]] You're being cynical. The only thing that can bring about the constant presence of cameras in the courtroom is a new channel on public television. [[Applause]] [[Good.]] The law and justice propose to amend the Article. 360 Code of Criminal Procedure, as a result of which disclosure will be decided not by the court but by the prosecutor. This is a clear violation of the principle of division of roles in the process. It is a very risky move to give such an important competence to the services directly subject to one politician, Zbigniew Ziobrze. What's more, the D.A.'s decision won't have any complaints. [[What are you afraid of?]] Thus, Law and Justice once again knocks out the teeth of the independence of judges, strengthening the role of prosecutors. The question is addressed to the Member, the representatives of the applicants, but also to all Members of the Law and Justice. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Are you aware that by supporting this change, you are opening the door to show trials? Don't do this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u123	Mr Jerzy Jachnik, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u124	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, the problem is important, for the following reason. And here's the appeal to the applicants and to Minister Ziobra. Well, it is true that the courts exclude too much transparency, but how can we be sure that the prosecution will be better off in this regard? This level of trust in the D.A.'s office is even worse than the judges. You know perfectly well that even at committee meetings the positions were very divided, and you have withdrawn a very important point in turn, so the possibility of complaining about the exclusion of disclosure. Too bad it's done. So it seems to me that the better solution would be to leave the complaint and actually not giving too much power again, which means not tilting the pendulum the other way. Therefore, Minister and applicant, the question is simple. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why the sudden great trust in the D.A.'s office? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u125	Thank you. Minister Michał Wójcik will answer these doubts.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u126	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I don't know if we're working on the same project because I keep saying that the rule is that there's transparency. Why is it so public? Because 25% of society believes in the Polish justice system, every fourth citizen. [[Forty-two.]] 25% Check the polls. Will we deepen this distrust of citizens in the Polish justice system when the camera appears in the courtroom if journalists appear? [[It's okay.]] After all, ladies and gentlemen, what is the difference between our proposal and the one that has existed so far? [[Basically.]] Basically. You're right. According to Art. 357 § 1 so far the court may allow the participation of representatives of radio, television, media, and today the court permits. [[Where are the citizens' rights?]] This is why it allows for social control, so that citizens can see how it goes. to make sure that there is no right to cotery. [[Member of Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: What cotery?]] You can't understand it all the time. As far as the prosecutor is concerned, the prosecutor has a special position in the Polish system. He's a spokesperson for the rule of law, a spokesperson for the public interest. I would like to share with you the following information. Two weeks ago I had the opportunity to be in Prague at a meeting of ministers of justice of the Visegrad Group. I want to tell you that many experts are very jealous of what we did in the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office Act, that the Attorney General is also the Minister of Justice. In times of difficulty, dynamic, very difficult, the fact that executive power is approaching the prosecution is very good. But we - and here I answer to Mr Kukiz15 - do not violate the constitutional principle of division of power, under any circumstances. We respect the art. 10, division into legislative, executive and judicial powers. That's not the point at all. It's about the prosecutor being a spokesperson for the rule of law, making him appear in the public interest. [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: What about the judge?]] But that doesn't mean that the D.A. can freely shape his position for the sole purpose of his imagination. Art. 231 of the Penal Code is the rule that talks about the prosecutor's responsibility. When a public officer exceeds his authority, he will be held liable. You must understand that. [[What's going to be the crossing?]] And one more thing. Let's not shout. Constitution in Article. 45 talking about what? The fact that there is a principle of transparency in court proceedings, and the exception is the secrecy of cases. This is enumeratively mentioned in the paragraph. 2. Check it out in the Constitution. We do this for the citizen, for the Polish society, to [[Applause]] In fact... [[Like everything else.]] ...there was more confidence in the Polish justice system. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u127	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 236 voted against - 192; no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. The third amendment is without object. In the 4th amendment, applicants propose not to amend the legislation on the professions of doctors and dentists and on the rights of the patient and the spokesperson of the rights of the patient. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Grzegorz Długi, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u128	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, mysteries, the protection of private life and private secrets, professional secrets are the basis of democracy. We must not allow that we do not make our private things, the things that protect the Constitution in the article, by unthinkable solutions. 47, they will be public, public and, as we know, broadcast by television. I would really be very appealing for this amendment to be abandoned, to leave the solution so far, which allows the court to control whether we disclose certain data, the person who died in this case or not. The court will do the best. Instead of improving the court's action to make it quick and easy, we remove the court's control of it. And it really seems that after your death, if you've divorced before, it's your wives. [[♪ The bell ♪]] They won't have access to your data, but your former mother-in-law will. That's not smart. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u129	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen is in favour of the 4th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. 179 voted against - 228, with 16 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Members are asking questions. Mrs Barbara Dolniak, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u130	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Do you think - here I ask the majority of the Parliament - that the cameras guarantee the integrity of the proceedings? No. We have an example of this in your case. [[Applause]] [[How do you work?]] 45% is trust in the courts, and you say the cameras are more reliable. We just heard about 20 percent, and we've got cameras. Is that it? That's the proper procedure, Judge, right now, Minister? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The fairness and confidence in the courts is due to the fact that judges are subject only to laws and their own consciences. That is why judges have such trust, and Members and Senators have much smaller confidence. It's worth remembering. [[Applause]] [[Milewski, Tuley.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u131	The question is raised by Boris Budka, the Civic Platform Club. [[Applause]] [[Oh, finally!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u132	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! I have a question for the Minister why he misleads the public. Take a look at CBOS, p. 14 from the February study. The only problem is that below the courts is the government - 38% trust. [[We won the election.]] And it's this government that's trying to accuse others of this great conspiracy theory and you're trying to fix what you're ruining. That's the paradox. But the most important thing. If someone thinks you're gonna improve the way you're doing things with penalties, that you're just gonna give the games, you're gonna fix the justice system, that's a mistake. I urge you to speak to Minister Jarosław Gowin, where there are problems of efficiency, capacity, burdens. Please go back to what was discussed in [[♪ The bell ♪]] Last term. Talk to your government buddy, and don't say those demagogic slogans that won't fix anything. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u133	Thank you, sir. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, a club of the Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u134	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Minister, have you ever had tabloids in your hands? Have you met the phenomenon of preying on someone else's misfortune... [[Oh, yeah.]] ...on people affected by tragedies, parasitism on horrible stories... [[And you are surprised that you have 16 Members?]] ...which are often reported there? And the question to the applicants: Would you like to open a wider door to escalate these issues in the press, on television programmes? Is that what this is about? Isn't it better to improve the justice system and the functioning of this justice system really in other areas? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u135	Please, Mr Janusz Sanocki, a non-attached Member, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u136	Mr. Marshal! High... [[Voice from the room: Break!]] [[Voice from the hall: Friday!]] Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, [[Joy in the Chamber]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! From the point of view of associations that fight against lawlessness in the justice system, and I am the president of such an association, for many years I have been struggling with lawlessness in the justice system, in Polish courts, solutions are good in my opinion, because they increase transparency, increase supervision of what judges do. My question, on the other hand, maybe not directly to the rapporteur, but to Mrs Dolniak, who was a very trusty judge: why did the judge replace the status of high trust with the status of low trust? [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u137	Thank you very much. [[In corrigendum mode.]] Mrs Dolniak, as corrected. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u138	With regard to the Member's statement, I would like to say that it is precisely because I have a lot of experience in applying the law that I have decided to create a good law now. But unfortunately, with the participation of the State, this is not possible. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: But weak.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u139	The Member will forgive me, but in order to create a good law, it is also necessary to comply with the rules of procedure, [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] And that wasn't a corrigendum. [[Voice from the hall: I win the election.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to stop your emotions. I have the following remark to you: in this way and in this way we will vote until noon. 17 or 18. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Of course, I'm at your disposal. [[You're not going to the walk.]] Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz, rapporteur of the committee, has the floor. [[I'm in corrigendum mode...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u140	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The whole idea of amending criminal proceedings [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] The aim of this project is to finally be the primacy of the constitutional principle of transparency... [[Yes, sir.]] [[Attorney at the courthouse.]] ...that hasn't been there so far. High Seym! These are European standards. There are many judgments of the European Court of Human Rights that speak of this. [[Applause]] [[That's not true.]] [[Yes, sir.]] And I'm surprised the Platform and Modern don't understand that. [[I can tell you're surprised.]] You often invoke it, and you do something different, completely different. [[Voice from the hall: In the cemeteries and in the dumpsters.]] And this reminds me of a story from ancient Rome when from North Africa came to Rome Karneades of Cyrena and gave two speeches on democracy: in the morning at the Roman Forum he gave pean for democracy and in the afternoon he was against democracy. [[Applause]] But in Rome there was a right husband, Marcus Tullius Cicero, who dealt with Karneades and the Romans drove Karneades out of Rome. [[Applause]] I'm not Mark. Tullius Cicero, but I wouldn't want you gentlemen and ladies to perform as Karneades of the Cyrena. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo! Bravo!]] [[Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u141	In what way, Member? [[Corrections.]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: But there isn't!]] But it has not been corrected before, so I apologise, you cannot straighten out something that has not been corrected. We'll proceed to the vote... Oh, I'm sorry, Minister. No. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No.521, along with the one amendment adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. Seventeen Members abstained in favour of 245 against 175. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, the Act on Competitions of Doctors and Dentist, and the Act on Patients' Rights and the Ombudsperson of Patients. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] We would like to return to the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report of the Extraordinary Commission on the bill submitted by the President of the Republic of Poland on the amendment of the law Family and caring code and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 522-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mrs Barbara Bartus to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u142	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present an additional report of the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications about the draft law presented by the President of the Republic of Poland amending the Family and Care Code Act and some other laws, contained in print No 522-A. At the second reading of the draft law, three amendments were tabled at the Sejm meeting on 8 June 2016. The Extraordinary Commission on Changes in Codifications considered these amendments at its meeting on 9 June 2016. Two amendments were positive and one amendment was withdrawn. On behalf of the Extraordinary Commission on Changes in Codifications, I propose that the High Sejm adopt the two amendments proposed and adopt the law in its entirety. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u143	Thank you very much. So, as we've heard, we're voting on print number 522. We vote on the amendments first. In the 1st amendment in the new wording of Article. The proposal for a law is proposed by the applicant, among others. In addition, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Article 4 49 Bank law on family accounts for persons who have been granted non-executable benefits. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. There were 409 votes against - no one, three Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 2nd amendment, applicants propose to add a new wording to the Article. 4 of the draft law on amendments to the law on cooperative savings and credit banks. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 410 Members voted. 408, 1 Member voted against, 1 abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. The question is asked by Mrs Joanna Augustynowska, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u144	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The family programme was launched on 1 April 2016. On 22 April, a presidential bill has already been introduced to correct errors in this bill. The benefit from the scheme is not liable to affect the amount of maintenance or to be subject to bail-in from the bank account affected by the measures. The correction of these errors is obvious and, of course, the Modern Posel Club will support this project as well as all the amendments tabled so far. However, I have a lot of doubts, ladies and gentlemen, as to whether we will not have to clarify this project again soon. Many sources provide worrying information about the problems with the application of these rules. As can be expected, administrative and organisational problems regarding the submission of applications can be considered to be temporary and they are likely to disappear. The situation of pushing out of the labour market or a situation where it does not positively affect the economy and sales, [[♪ The bell ♪]] is more and more products in the form of 500+ moments, these are problems that need to be considered, so that in the future the entire social programme is not a problem. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u145	Thank you very much. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print 522, along with the amendments adopted, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. The vote was 422, no one voted against, seven Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Family and Care Code Act and some other laws. We return to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the Government's draft law on anti-terrorist activities and on the amendment of certain other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 567-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Jarosław Krajewski to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u146	Respected Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present an additional report to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the Government's draft law on anti-terrorist activities and on the amendment of certain other laws. The Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, after considering the amendments and the draft at its meeting on 9 June 2016, requests the adoption of a draft law, requests the rejection of the application made by the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, to reject the project in its entirety. The Commission also requests that Amendment 11 be adopted and that the other amendments be rejected. It is worth recalling that during the parliamentary work on the bill, the committee accepted the amendments tabled by the Members of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform, Kukiz.15 and the Modern Club. High Izbo! The draft law on anti-terrorist actions is the implementation of the principle: zero tolerance for terrorists. The draft law contains a number of appropriate tools for state authorities to address existing terrorist threats. Let us remember that the democratic rule of law, which is the Republic of Poland, is a guarantee of freedom and civil rights, while terrorists are a real threat to the freedom of citizens. I therefore call on all Members to adopt a law that will ensure the safety of Polish families. The issue of security of Poles must be taken seriously, so instead of hysterically attacking good solutions it is worth supporting a law that can help save human life. High Izbo! In fact, we are about to vote on the implementation of the principle: zero tolerance for terrorists, which is why I am calling for caution. It is worth considering whether we are in favour or against this principle: zero tolerance for terrorists. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u147	I would like to inform you that among the proposals tabled and the additional amendments made... We'll start with the conclusions. Applications submitted by applicants: 4 and 5 and 17 and 21 were withdrawn. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. The Commission requests that this proposal be rejected, as we have heard. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. Members of the House are asking questions. Member Marek Wójcik, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u148	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! The draft Anti-Terrorism Act is a set of solutions applied in different countries, which try to move without reflection and without analyzing the threats occurring in Poland to our national legal order. The work was carried out in a hurry, without hearing experts' opinions, without hearing the opinions of human rights institutions. The Act gives only an illusion of security and at the same time limits civil rights. This was because the Law and Justice decided to use as a pretext the changes that entered the area of civil liberties of the World Youth Days. I would therefore like to ask the Minister: Have the services prepared to ensure security during the World Youth Days based on the rules already in force today? I would also like to ask: Is the Minister taking responsibility for what will happen in this situation? [[♪ The bell ♪]] the conflict between the current rules on crisis management, which have already been checked and the unverified rules introduced by this law a few weeks before World Youth Day? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u149	Thank you. Mr Piotr Uściński, Club Law and Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u150	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Today, the Civic Platform proposes to reject the draft anti-terrorist law in its entirety. I remember when you guys were in charge, you pointed out that you needed a project like this, that you just needed an anti-terrorist bill a few years ago. You haven't been able to prepare her by now. And now you are accusing us that we are acting in a hurry, that we want to prepare Poland for the great events that will take place in the near future. Ladies and gentlemen! I have a question for the government. When we took power, did we find any draft anti-terrorist laws? Have there been any government work done and, if so, what regulations have been prepared so far, by the end of the previous term? Have these possible provisions, draft regulations, been introduced into the planned, today-tested law? Requesting an answer from a government representative. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u151	Thank you. Mr Adam Szłapka, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u152	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The primary reason for this law was to ensure security for the NATO and World Youth Days summit. Today there is no doubt, no doubt, that this bill will not affect the safety of these two important events, so either we are dealing with the inability of the applicants, because they have not prepared this project in time, or it has been a smokescreen from the beginning. If so, why do we proceed with this act in such a hurry, and why do you ignore the public consultation and public hearing that is designed to make good law? Then why does the organ... Why are you ignoring the views of social organizations that fear that this law will give services tools that will reduce civil liberties such as freedom of assembly, the right to privacy or even the right to patient privacy? It's not a good bill that doesn't provide [[♪ The bell ♪]] appropriate review of the courts and the legislative authority. We do not agree with such a philosophy of lawmaking and with such a philosophy of exercising power. That's why we're voting against this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u153	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u154	And what kind of... [[Mr. Marshal, time's up.]] ...you have intentions, we'll see after a series of amendments. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u155	Thank you, sir. Mr Maciej Wąsik, Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u156	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! As irresponsible as I am, I take the motion to reject this bill. [[Applause]] It's extremely irresponsible, it's an act of terrorism. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Oh, come on.]] [[Don't scare me.]] I would like to tell you that the need for such a law has been known for a long time. In 2008, in November, Minister Rapacki, the deputy sitting here Mr Grzegorz Schetina, announced an article from one of the Internet portals: Poland, like other countries in the world, will have anti-terrorist rights... This is 2008. [[Yes, sir.]] ...a set of special laws to combat terrorist threats. And it will be a restrictive law. It's from the media. The bill will put chaos in order - says Minister Rapacki. And what did the reporters find out about the bill that you were planning on doing in the 20,000th year of the eighth year? [[Two thousand...]] Two thousand eight. The bill will allow the services to monitor more freely, retain suspects without a court order for at least 72 hours. Although he will not allow torture, it is likely that he will allow the transfer of suspects to countries such as Egypt, where the torture of interrogations can be applied. And you're talking about human rights? [[Applause, bustle in the hall]] [[Bravo!]] Minister Rapacki in the 20,000th year... [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: Two thousand eight.]] ...says: The law was reviewed to prevent terrorist activities, protect citizens, prosecute perpetrators and respond after the bombing. There are gaps in each area. And indeed, the MMA took action to build an anti-terrorist bill. A team was formed, the team worked for 2 years, sorry, 1.5 years, two articles were written - two. You also talked about the need for an anti-terrorism bill later when Bartłomiej Sienkiewicz was head of the MMA. Another team was established in 2014, I apologize, in 2015, when Mrs Piotrowska was present. The guidelines were made, the concept of this bill, but the Ministry did not make this bill. This bill is also necessary according to your analysis, which you have done. [[But not like this.]] And the motion to reject such a law, this law, is simply an injury. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u157	That's it? We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 406 Members voted. 157 votes against - 246, 3 abstentions. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. In the 1st minority proposal to Article. 2 (7) applicants propose that a terrorist event should be a situation where there is a reasonable suspicion that it was caused by the offence referred to in that provision. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. 188 voted against - 223, 2 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the first amendment, adding point 8 to Article. 2 applicants propose a definition of a terrorist incident. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is raised by Anna Maria Siarkowska, the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u158	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! This amendment introduces a definition of a terrorist incident. I would like to remind you that during the committee's work we introduced this deadline into the text of the law and that this deadline was not clarified at the moment. What could that do? The fact that an incident of a terrorist nature itself will be treated on an equal footing with an incident of a terrorist nature. In the meantime, there are records in this Act concerning the catalogue of terrorist incidents in which practically everything is located, e.g. situation concerning the loss or loss of identity documents by Polish citizens abroad. Do you really want this to be defined as a terrorist event? Please accept the definition of a terrorist incident. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u159	Thank you. The Secretary of State in the Chancellery of the Prime Minister, Mr Maciej Wąsik, asks for the floor. [[We're gonna need a break.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u160	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As I understand Mrs Siarski's intentions, I recommend rejecting this proposal because the incident catalogue will be set out in the regulation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u161	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. The vote was 47 against - 338 and 31 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second minority proposal to Article. Article 6 (6) (a) 3 applicants shall propose that the President of the Council of Ministers shall determine the activities referred to in that provision by means of a regulation. The question is asked by Marek Wójcik, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u162	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The Act contains a controversial and very vague provision allowing citizens to be listed as suspects of terrorist activities. The head of the ABW has a great deal of power in this area. He's gonna be the one. issued implementing rules on the list of persons suspected of terrorist activity. Prime Minister, don't leave your citizens at the mercy of the Chief of Special Forces. [[Whose is it?]] Will the Prime Minister assume the responsibility at least for issuing implementing rules for these controversial rules? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u163	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the second minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. 157 votes against - 254, 1 abstention. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the second amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 9. The adoption of this amendment will result in the nullity of the 3rd minority proposal and the 3rd and 4th amendments. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The questions have been raised by the Members. Member of Krzysztof Brejza, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u164	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! You are proposing something unacceptable in a democratic state, i.e. such a return to the operational technique of the Polish People's Republic. Since the '90s. - we strengthened this in 2008 under the Civic Platform - the court manages the wiretap, operational control. You want foreigners - and the foreigner can really be any Member or journalist - to be eavesdropped by the head of the Home Office. He's the one who's gonna manage a cell phone bug, PTK, room bugging, car bugging. She's gonna decide to hack into the computer's hard drive on a single person. How's that going, Minister, to your wealthy experience with the Central Anti-corruption Bureau? Maybe we can talk about it. How does this also apply to the opinion of the Venice Commission from a few minutes ago, which stated that the acquisition of Internet data, telecommunications data can only take place with the consent of the court? [[Applause]] Today is the opinion of the Venice Commission, we need the approval of the court. You're refusing the court's consent. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u165	Mrs Monica Rosa, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u166	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! After the entry into force of the law which you propose, without the consent of the court, it will be possible to conduct surveillance of foreigners. They will be properly excluded from the law. We have signed as Poland international conventions which prohibit us from discrimination on grounds of nationality. But this isn't just about conventions. It is also about ordinary human decency, not to discriminate on grounds of nationality, origin or nationality. [[Madame, there is no question of nationality.]] Suspicion of terrorism is a fundamental factor that will make the court agree to conduct operational action against foreigners. Why don't you want to introduce the court's consent procedure? [[Applause]] [[The Member has not read the bill.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u167	Mr Maciej Wąsik, Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister, is asking for the floor at the moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u168	Mr. Marshal! High Prime Minister! High Izbo! [[Joy in the Chamber]] I'd like to show you a document. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] This is a bill from 2014, a bill which was sent by the government of the Civic Platform to the High House. This is a draft law on the ABW. Art. Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 of this bill says that the head of the ABW will be able to eavesdrop on aliens indefinitely in all matters. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Few of this, to this law is the opinion of Prof. Chmaj, which is the opinion that this is an absolutely constitutional solution. Our solution, which also has positive opinions, limits the application of operational control ordered by the head of the ABW only for 3 months, only to foreigners and only to those... [[Suspected of terrorism.]] ...who are suspected of terrorism. Criticizing the records that we're making, in the face of those records that went all the way through the legislative process, and just because the tape scandal broke out... [[Don't yell.]] ...you didn't have time to do it... [[Don't wave your hands.]] ...is simply a mere, despicable hypocrisy. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: He's right.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u169	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 409 Members voted. 153 voted against - 255, with 1 abstention. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the third amendment, applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. Article 1 9. This amendment is combined with the 4th amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The adoption of these amendments will render the 3rd minority proposal irrelevant. The Commission requests that they be rejected. The question is asked by Dorota Rutkowska, the Civic Platform Club. Mr Mirosław Suchoń.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u170	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! That's not true, this project didn't go through the whole legislative process. He's staying at the lowest level in the subcommittee. In the previous term, unlike the current one, democratic principles were still maintained. [[Applause]] And the rulers didn't force the rules. Minister, you are so eager to refer to your predecessors, please say that after two years of disdainful rule of law and justice, when, as a result of the whim of the head of the CBA, e.g. Members of Self-Defense, it was the Platform that introduced the rules for the full case files to be brought to the courts and for decisions to be taken on further operational activities. [[Applause]] The surveillance of foreigners without the permission of courts indirectly opens the gate to listening also to Poles. You want to wear a wire without external control, you're gonna take us back to the '80s. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why? Out of fear? From who? To the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u171	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u172	We're not hysterical, we're fighting for human rights. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u173	Thank you, Member. I assure you, Madam President, that democratic principles in the legislative process in the Sejm have not been and have not been violated in the current term of office. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club, has the floor. [[When's the break?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u174	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Well, I wanted to ask you a question. Minister for Foreign Affairs, I would very much ask you to clarify the conditions that the Minister, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, had led when he gave a positive opinion that this project was compatible with international law, that it complied with the requirements of European Union law, the conventions that apply to us. I will mention this opinion of the Venice Commission today. Okay, she arrived today. But there is a Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, including e.g. Article 2 7, which says that everyone has the right to respect their private and family life, home and communication. Everyone - not a Polish citizen, just everyone. Conventions and international human rights laws, after all they speak not of citizens of a given country, they speak of man, a human being. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This law is also contrary to the one ratified by Poland in 1977. The UN International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. Minister...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u175	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u176	...which was followed by your ministry, spending...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u177	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u178	...a positive opinion for this project? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The security of Poles.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u179	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 3 and 4 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. 161 votes against - 257, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the third minority application, applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. Article 1 9. The question is asked by Mr Adam Szłapka, the Modern Club. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u180	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for Minister Moustache. How's Art? 9 of this law to art. 74 § 2 Code of Criminal Procedure? 'Cause it sounds like art. 9 is exactly a reflection of an article in the Code of Criminal Procedure that I just mentioned. Fingerprints, as well as DNA evidence, other kinds of evidence, can also be taken from the defendants. In this article the difference is that the accused by law is every foreigner, there must be a person who is a foreigner, accused of nothing, so that these materials can be downloaded anyway. Therefore, I have a question for Minister Wąsik because I do not want to use strong words. What is the deadline, Minister, for us to determine such segregation in the majesty of the law? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u181	Minister Maciej Wąsik will personally respond to the Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u182	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! This can be defined as the term of taking care of the safety of Poles, no other. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u183	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. The vote was 160 against 258 and no one abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 5th amendment, the applicant proposes to add paragraph. Article 4a 10. This amendment is combined with the 6th amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Two Members ask questions. Mr Grzegorz Raniewicz, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u184	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The amendment concerns the collection of data and, above all, the collection of data that are no longer needed. It is therefore surprising that there is such a wastefulness, which is visible here, the financial wastefulness which is permitted by this law. Because why collect unnecessary DNA profiles, fingerprint images or images of people? This is completely unnecessary, Minister. There is no need if the reason for such data being in databases has already ceased. This raises a question that you ask President Kaczyński very often. I'm gonna paraphrase your president here. What's just the right thing to do? [[Voice from the room: Why?]] ...interests push the PiS to spend budget money unnecessarily? What only legitimate interests, Mr. President? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u185	This question is specifically addressed to the representative of the government. Mr Witold Zembaczyński, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u186	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Unfortunately, this project bears the marks of the bill of segregation. This is the first example of legislation that uses the narrative created around foreigners to create standards in order to limit human and citizen rights. How can these rules be applied to citizens of the European Union? This may violate the Charter of Fundamental Rights, which guarantees equal rights for all citizens, Member of the European Union... [[Think of the Poles.]] ...you too, ma'am. This citizenship should not be a decisive but credible suspicion based on evidence. If such suspicions exist, why do the services need additional regulations when apprehending foreigners? This artificial criterion of citizenship lowers the standards of protection for all... [[In France, where the bombings were.]] ...and the storage of DNA material is illegal. And hence my question to the Minister: Where will you be these samples? Was he holding the DNA? Is he in his closet? Thank you. [[There'll be room.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u187	It's an important question. Minister Maciej Wąsik has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u188	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I am very impressed by the opposition's care for the rights of terrorists. What you're doing is really working for the terrorist community. [[Applause]] You can't do that. You can't do that. All your corrections are backwards, all of them... [[What right do you insult us?]] ...they're backwards to limit their rights. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Polish services. We are facing serious threats that have hit Europe, we are facing really serious terrorist attacks that have hit the whole of Western Europe, and we want to do everything we can to keep Poles safe. [[You're lying.]] You yourselves have diagnosed that this bill is needed. You couldn't make it. We'll do it without your help. [[Applause]] [[But don't yell.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u189	But wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, [[In correction mode, Mr. Marshal.]] [[Hello, but in what mode?]] In corrigendum mode. There you go. Mr Raniewicz, in correction mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u190	Minister, I don't know, maybe you weren't listening. I always tell my son that you shouldn't sit on the headphones for long, because then the hearing is dull and you don't hear it. [[Then why were you in jail?]] Minister, we all want to fight terrorism and please don't impute that anyone doesn't want to fight. We all want to fight terrorism. Terrorism is evil and must be fought. But at the same time, you cannot fight Polish citizens. And that's what you have to deal with. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u191	I see... [[This doesn't apply to citizens.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] ...that it was a misunderstood phrase by the Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 5 and 6, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 170 Members voted against - 227, with 29 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 6th minority application, applicants propose to add paragraph. 6 and 7 in Articles 6 and 7 10. The question is asked by Mirosław Suchoń, a modern club. [[Voice from the room: He resigned.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. The vote was 166, against - 217, with 29 abstentions. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. In the 7th amendment, the applicants propose to add paragraph. Article 2 and Article 3 11. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House... Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club, with a question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u192	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! That is a very important provision. Ladies and gentlemen, he is really introducing a Google mechanism for citizens for the ABW. The ABW receives access to all databases, to all registers in the power of offices in Poland, without any supervision of the court, without any supervision of any other organisation that could verify the validity of obtaining information about each of the 38 million citizens. I would therefore like to ask: Why do you not want to support an amendment that restricts this authority of services in such a way that the court's consent to the collection of sensitive data will be required? Not all data, but only sensitive data, which affect the fundamental rights of every citizen in a very important way. Why do you want the Home Office to learn everything about every citizen without any supervision, [[♪ The bell ♪]] what do the individual offices know? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u193	Mr Maciej Wąsik.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u194	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! [[Take it easy, don't scream.]] I would like to draw attention to one thing: the ABW will work, will only collect data in this mode in terrorist matters, and it will be fully cleared, as we are convinced not only by the Anti-Terrorism Act, but also by the Information Technology Act. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u195	Of course, Mr Maciej Wąsik played here as Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 171 voted against - 259, 2 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 8th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 21. The adoption of this amendment will result in the nullity of the 7th minority proposal and the 9th amendment. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Marek Wójcik, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u196	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Art. 21 gives the Home Minister the opportunity to ban public gatherings or mass events, as well as the interruption of ongoing mass gatherings and events. This provision dangerously limits the constitutional right to freedom of assembly, but it is also dangerous because potential terrorists allow us to predict how Polish special services will behave in a situation of danger, how we will evacuate our facilities. Minister! Have you considered the danger of hurried evacuation of large stadiums, sports halls, concert halls in the event of a decision taken by the Minister in isolation from the current assessment of the situation that is in place in the evacuated facility? [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: I will answer, Mr. Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u197	Wait a minute, Minister. Mr Adam Szłapka, the Modern Club, with a question to this amendment. It's about the 8th Amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u198	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! High Izbo! Art. 15 of this law introduces four degrees of emergency threat, which is not a bad solution in itself, but in degrees three and four public assemblies cannot be organised. How's this gonna work? Well, the Prime Minister, after consulting the head of the ABW and the Home Affairs Minister, will decide on the introduction of these two highest levels of terrorist threat. There is no appeal procedure in this bill, there are no deadlines, and the grades are cancelled, Prime Minister, once this threat has been minimized. The Act does not provide for any control over this, any time limits and any appeal procedure, i.e. in reality this law gives the Prime Minister the opportunity to introduce a state of emergency without any time limits. We're returning to a very dark time. Question: Prime Minister, who will be in charge of this, and what will be the appeal procedure? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u199	Of course, Minister Maciej Wąsik, President of the Council of Ministers, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u200	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I will answer as follows: you have to read the draft laws carefully, well. [[Applause]] There's an appeal procedure to the court. If a ban is introduced by the Minister of the Interior, on the basis of which a public assembly or a mass event is cancelled, then it is a appeal procedure to the court. And if you read it well, you'd know it is. But back to the very essence. Well, when introducing a third or fourth degree of alarm, which is very high, there will be the possibility - not mandatoryity, but the possibility - for the Minister of Home Affairs to introduce a ban. And it's a bill, it's a recipe. It's not about the ban, it's about who's taking responsibility for it, because no government, no president, no mayor has the vision the Home Minister has in terms of terrorist threats. And that's why he has to take responsibility for such a ban and take it on himself. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u201	It's settled. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 170 voted against - 258 and 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 7th minority proposal, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 21. The adoption of this minority proposal will result in the nullity of the 9th amendment. The question is asked by Anna Nemś, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u202	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! All amendments tabled by the Civic Platform are important, but this one in particular, because it concerns freedom of assembly. The legislator in the article. 21 gives itself the opportunity to ban public gatherings in addition to mass events. Please bear in mind that last year we passed the Law on Assembly Law, which regulates these matters. Let us also remember that according to the Constitution, art. 57, every citizen has the right to call and attend peaceful assemblies. We with this amendment, giving new wording to the article. 21, we give you a chance to withdraw from further restrictions imposed on Polish citizens. What are you afraid of? Are you afraid of the sovereign? Afraid of peaceful manifestation? [[Terrorists.]] You're afraid that those who begin to manifest, [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] They'll be here. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Insurgents? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u203	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the 7th minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 174 voted against - 228, with 31 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 9th amendment, the applicants propose to add paragraph. Article 2a 21. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mirosław Suchoń, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u204	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Some of you had the pleasure of sitting in the chair of the president, mayor, mayor. And now put yourselves in the role of these people for a moment. You're getting a call from the head of the Homeland Security Department who informs you that there's a terrorist threat in your territory and you're gonna cancel the public assembly, cancel the mass event. You ask, "But listen, what's going on? There's 100,000 in here. People. And he says, "No, according to the regulations... [[Don't mislead me.]] ...you have no right to know what the terrorist threat is in this area. You can't take any action, warn the other residents, you can't somehow outrun this threat and protect the people from this threat. We are introducing an amendment which will oblige the Minister to provide information on the details of the threat to local government.This is a very important amendment which will affect in a very significant way the ability of local government authorities to ensure security for the inhabitants of these areas. We therefore ask you to support this amendment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u205	Minister Maciej Wąsik will speak on this matter. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u206	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The assembly of 100,000. The moment Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz counts, sure, but... [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Seriously, it's a rule whose intentions are valuable, and I understand them perfectly, and it's really impossible because it's 2.5,000. Local governments and if there was a ban on assembly throughout Poland, it would be necessary to send 2.5 thousand. information, the head of ABW would have to do it... [[What's this for you?]] ...unknown. And how many municipalities have a secret law firm? I see, the intention is so... [[Every single one of them.]] It's confidential, isn't it? Or secret? Here's what I'm going to say: it's a recipe whose intentions are noble, but it's absolutely impossible. Enough, the head of Homeland Security at the time of the threat won't think about sending $2.5,000. classified letters. [[But it's everywhere, all of a sudden?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u207	Mr Suchoń, as corrected. There you go. [[There's no name.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u208	The Minister obviously misunderstood me. I was talking about the residents of the village where the convention was banned. And that's why, by way of example, I told you about the inhabitants of a 100-thousand-dollar village. But, Minister, it seems that these organisational problems should not be beyond what is important to ensure safety. Self-governments have their tools. They can somehow prevent the worse even... escalation of the consequences of this threat. Therefore, this amendment is absolutely necessary, the adoption of this amendment is absolutely necessary. And I would ask you to be positive about these amendments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u209	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 175 voted against 256 and 2 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 8th minority proposal to Article. Article 22 (2) (b) 3 applicants propose that the order to use the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland in the cases referred to in this provision should be issued by the President of the Republic of Poland at the request of the President of the Council of Ministers, specifying the scope and form of assistance. This proposal brings together minority proposals from 9 to 13. We will vote on these proposals together. The question is asked by Mirosław Suchoń, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u210	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! This is another rule that, like, a little bit of this bill... raises our doubts in a meaningful way. In special cases, Mr Błaszczak, Minister of Interior, will be able to introduce the third and fourth degree of threat. And now, on the basis of the current regulations, Minister Błaszczak and Minister Macierewicz will be able to lead the army to the streets together and in agreement. You understand that the design of these regulations raises our greatest concern. Therefore, we propose to raise the level of decision-making and these possibilities to the President of the Republic of Poland, who would decide to use the Armed Forces in the territory of the Republic of Poland following a request from the President of the Council of Ministers. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Please accept this amendment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u211	Thank you. Mr President, that was not a question. It was, like, a commitment to the amendment. [[The question was the default.]] [[I didn't have time to ask a question because time was up.]] [[Then why the Minister?]] But still, the Minister has the right to speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u212	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Although the Member has not asked a question, I will answer it. According to my best knowledge, the name of Minister Macierewicz or Minister Błaszczak doesn't fall once in this bill, but maybe I didn't read it thoroughly. But let me say this: if we had adopted this amendment, we would have exactly the rules that we have now. It is therefore pointless. The Act introduces reduced time, extraordinarily, in critical situations. That's a good idea. It would be pointless to accept your amendment because these provisions are already in the Police Act. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[But arguments, really...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u213	There you go. I understand that, ladies and gentlemen. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting minority proposals from 8 to 13 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 169 voted against - 255, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected its conclusions. In the 14th minority proposal to Article. Article 22 (2) (b) 8 applicants shall propose that the branches or sub-groups referred to in that provision, in the field of command, be subject to the management of the operation. The question is raised by Anna Maria Siarkowska, the Kukiz club15. [[Voices from the O.R.: Break.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u214	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would ask your attention, because in my view this is the most important amendment from among those that we are dealing with in today's sitting. Namely today, the provisions of the Act assume that the troops or divisions of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland, which will be used to assist police departments or divisions, remain in the command system of the Armed Forces. On the surface, it seems reasonable that this is a good solution, but imagine a situation in which a policeman, who is in charge of his actions, because this is what you predicted in the bill, will not be able to control the forces he has been given to command the operation. Therefore, in a situation where he gives an order that we should enter, that we should shoot, he will have to consult with it in the entire chain of command of the Armed Forces. This is really a very harmful solution. And now my question is, will you take responsibility? [[♪ The bell ♪]] For the death of people who die just because you're breaking the rules of unity of command? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u215	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 14th minority proposal will raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. 172 voted against - 247, no one abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 15th minority application, the applicant shall propose to delete Article. 23. The question is asked by Mr Witold Zembaczyński, the Modern Club. [[Voice from the room: Break.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the votes for a break are not part of this amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u216	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! It's an extremely important issue. You seek in this law to legalize in the majesty the right to deprive a person of his life. It's the so-called. Sniper shot. The basis for killing a man is contrary to Article. 28 constitutions, but my problem with this provision is how to execute this order, this decision. This recipe is badly constructed. Police officers, special forces expect this decision to be their individual choice. They're the ones holding the gun in their hands and looking through the telescope at that terrorist. This decision cannot be made by anyone but the shooter himself, because this is about legalizing a man's life. Therefore, because of your responsibility for this decision, you cannot translate it into other officers, somewhere in the command stage. Only one who's gonna pull the trigger can make that decision. And that's a wrongly formulated rule, which first of all doesn't protect a man's life, and second of all, doesn't give officers the opportunity to take action. [[♪ The bell ♪]] effective decisions in this respect. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u217	Minister Maciej Wąsik, President of the Council of Ministers, will speak. [[Mr. Marshal, in formal mode.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u218	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This recipe removes responsibility from the sniper and is a very important recipe. The decision to shoot a sniper is made by a leading action that can calmly assess the situation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u219	Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: This is where we agree.]] [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal, in formal mode, I would like to...]] We will conclude the vote at this point. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 15th minority proposal will raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 164 votes against - 260, 1 abstention. The Sejm's motion is denied. Mr Zbigniew Ajchler with a formal proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u220	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, How does it happen, Mr Marshal, that a Member who has previously spoken as a Member of this Court says that in her view this is the most important of the amendments, which are dozens of amendments to this law that we are working on, and the Minister of Competence does not respond to this issue? Why, Mr. Marshal, aren't you causing such a situation? Because I'm terrified if I hear there's no proper responsibility for the orders. Mr. Marshal, I am so sorry, with all due respect to you, but this is very important to me. I'm asking for an answer. Thank you very much. [[Don't worry, we're here.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u221	Thank you for your attention. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 15th minority proposal will raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back... [[The voice from the room: 15 was...]] Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen. [[Mr. Marshal tired, I think we need a break.]] In the 10th amendment, applicants propose among others. in Article 4, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Paragraph 24 1 add words and words in Polish maritime areas. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. The vote was 186, against - 232, with 11 Members holding back. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. I thought so intensely. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Wait a minute, Marshal.]] In the 11th amendment to the article. Paragraph 24 2 applicants propose to delete the words "including the State Fire Department." The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 11th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 390 Members voted against - 38, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 16th minority application, the applicant shall propose to delete Article. 25. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 16th minority proposal would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. 163 votes against - 255, 1 abstention. The Sejm's motion is denied. Amendments 12 to 20 were tabled in Article. 38 amending act containing amendments to the Act on Internal Security and the Intelligence Agency. In the 12th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 32a. The adoption of this amendment will result in the unobtrusiveness of amendments from 13. Up to 18. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. And here's the question. Mr Krzysztof Brejza, the Civic Platform Club, is reporting.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u222	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! You are proposing the introduction of the so-called. Penetration tests, security tests of the electronic network. According to the statutory definition, such a network is your phone configured with a computer. You want to test local providers too, i.e. Infect with spy software, searching for gaps. However, such software is used to collect information from hard drives, to interfere with camera drivers that are installed in your phones, microphones. This is the gap. for you to eavesdrop on society. I have a question because in the catalogue of surgical and cognitive activities there is the so-called. remote hacking into the computer, accessing the computer's hard drive, with the court's permission. You want to run security tests on citizens, actually hack into their computers without court control. Why would the president of the Homeland Security Agency, who was a candidate on the PiS list, have such a strong authority? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u223	There you go. Minister Maciej Wąsik will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u224	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There are a few problems in this statement. First of all, safety tests shall be carried out with the consent of the other party. The second problem is that safety tests are carried out in agreement, within a reasonable period of time and not to harm the other side or to collect data, just to check if there are gaps in the system. The Act does not provide for the examination of systems which belong to private individuals, but concerns critical infrastructure systems, banks, energy control systems, etc. So this is ridiculous, this is saying something as if the Member demanded the court's permission to come home and see if the chimney works well. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u225	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 12th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. 162 voted against - 260, two Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 13th amendment, the applicant proposes to add paragraph. Article 1a 32a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mirosław Suchoń, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u226	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I don't think the Minister has fully read the contents of this bill. In the mouth. Article 1 32a, which we add, states that the element that will be examined is important for the continuity of the functioning of the state's electronic systems of public administrations. This means that the internet connection that is part of this system will also be tested, which means that if private computers are connected to this connection, then in this situation ABW will be able to hack into these computers. I understand the Minister's surprise. You may not quite understand these technical aspects, but in conjunction with your lips. 8 added article, which allows ABW to hack into devices in these networks during these tests, will cause that private computers will be exposed. [[♪ The bell ♪]] But why, if you think that this is not the case, you do not want to support our amendment, which precisely clarifies the scope that can be examined. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u227	Thank you, sir. Mr Krzysztof Brejza, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u228	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Of course, I also want to say what my colleague said when it comes to testing services. If the service is provided by a local provider, the devices of individuals will also be tested. And about that agreement because you're accusing me of not knowing the bill. I don't think you know this bill, because of course there will be information. If there is an annual test plan, the entity shall be informed of the inclusion in the annual plan. But you're making a doorway that you can test these systems in justified cases outside the annual plan, and then there's no more information for this entity, there's no consent. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u229	Minister Maciej Wąsik will address these comments.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u230	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! In fact, the head of the ABW will be able to do this outside of plan in extraordinarily situations, but in agreement with the entity. Let's read the recipes, really, let's not say it's not true here. It's doing everything uphill. These are really ridiculous remarks. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: I don't think so.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u231	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 13th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. 172 votes against - 255, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 14th amendment, the applicant proposes to add paragraph. Article 6a 32a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is raised by Witold Zembaczyński, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u232	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! Penetration tests continue. Our amendment provides for the possibility of complaining about the decision to include a private entity in the test plan. Such a path should work, because testing these ICT systems, as well as, without excluding private computers here, can lead to the exploitation of business secrets, confidential information and others that are owned by businesses and individuals. That's why this path should work in this bill. It cannot be that the ABW operates completely above the law, without even giving citizens or entrepreneurs a chance to know what actions were being taken towards their networks, who did this and what was excavated. This is a really serious flaw in this provision, which is why we are proposing the proposed amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u233	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 14th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 168 voted against 261 and no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In Amendment 15 to Article. 32a applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 8. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u234	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Well, Minister, if you have such pure intentions and indeed these tests in your intentions will not interfere with those parts where there are private computers, then why do you not want to introduce these fuses into the bill, which will give you legal grounds to draw consequences in the event of a breach of these regulations against those who break the rules? Because these amendments are what serve to introduce these fuses. I do not understand, Minister, why - I assume that the Minister shares our concern for maintaining a proper moderation in violating our civil liberties - an attempt by us to introduce fuses that ensure transparency and constitute a certain dam [[♪ The bell ♪]] For the security services, this is the kind of criticism you have. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u235	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 15th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 168 votes against - 231, 27 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 16th amendment to the article. 32a applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 9. The Commission requests rejection. Mr Suchoń asks a question. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u236	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Minister! And again, another rule that clarifies what the Homeland Security Agency is supposed to do with the data it's gonna retrieve during these hacks into computers that are in the electronics systems. And I wanted to ask you why you're protesting so much against setting a seven-day deadline for the destruction of these materials. That's one thing. And secondly, why does the law say that materials are being destroyed only in such a situation that they are not used for the purposes that the ABW is facing, and that the material can be used for other purposes, completely unrelated to the objectives that the ABW is facing?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u237	Thank you. Minister Maciej Wąsik answers.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u238	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The law says if the Homeland Security Agency gets any information while they're doing security tests, it'll have to destroy that information. What else is there to change? There is a full guarantee of freedom and security. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u239	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 16th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. 166 votes against 253 and 3 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 17th amendment to the article. 32a applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 10. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Mr Suchoń asks a question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u240	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! A quick question, Minister. If it turns out that during the course of these safety tests, however, the NSA will break in and obtain information that it should not have obtained, what will be the procedure for dealing with this situation? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u241	Yes. Thank you very much, sir. [[Voices from the O.R.: Break!]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 17th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. There were 154 votes against - 251 and 10 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 18th amendment to the article. 32a applicants propose to add a new paragraph. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 18th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. 153 voted against - 236, 31 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 19th amendment to the article. 32c paragraph. 1 applicants propose that this provision should apply to the electronic system they manage. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Anna Maria Siarkowska, a Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u242	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Gentlemen and honourable Members, Why didn't I get the answer to the previous question? Because the ruling party knows that I was right, but there is a dispute between the MMA and the MON about influence. And that's what I'm going to say is that people's lives and health are in place in a terrorist situation. This is an outrage. We should really think about this, and I would really like to ask the media at this point to do the same. [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] Second line. Concerning Amendment 19, it is extremely clear and it is a matter of strict state that it concerns only the electronic system managed by the service provider concerned. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u243	Minister Maciej Wąsik answers.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u244	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's not about a dispute of competence, it's about communication systems. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u245	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 19th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 199 voted against - 231, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 20th amendment, the applicant proposes to add paragraph. 2b in Article 34. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Members of the European Parliament shall apply. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u246	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask the Minister a question. It's Google, it's about the citizen, it's about what you've secured in this bill, it's about 38 million terrorists. Why do you not want, in accordance with the provisions of the Regulation, to the Act on the Informationization of Entities performing public tasks, to record, in accordance with that Act, how long will the data on citizens collected by the ABW be kept? Why do you want to delete information about which citizens you have been digging, what information you have downloaded from databases that exist in all offices throughout Poland after 2 years, only after 2 years? What are you trying to hide? Why do you not want to specify the unlimited storage [[♪ The bell ♪]] information, what data were extracted from those databases that exist throughout Poland? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] On the basis of a regulation.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u247	Thank you, sir. Mrs Monika Wielichowska, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u248	High Izbo! Failure to accept this amendment will cause that if it is like in previous years, when the CBA Vice-President was convicted, then pardoned, and now the Deputy Minister in the Government of Law and Justice will reinstall again in his office so-called. listening station for listening to conversations on-line [[Applause]] and will actively participate in the collection of information - and then, I will remind you, the CBA Vice-President over 6 thousand overheard. times, it's about 5 and 6 listening sessions a day during his mission - that after leaving the rule of law and justice there will be no evidence of that. And it will take place with impunity, absolutely impunity. [[Applause]] Is this a bill, as you say, Minister, to protect Poles from terrorism? Oh, no. It's a law against Poles, because it's subject to ordinary citizens. And when it comes into force, our civil liberties will just become fiction, become fiction. [[♪ The bell ♪]] How do you want to protect us Poles? Because today, I'd rather you yell at us from the podium than eavesdrop on us with impunity. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Don't yell.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u249	Thank you very much. Minister Maciej Wąsik will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u250	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In reply to Mr Suchoni, I would like to say that the IT Act determines how and how long data are stored. We're just maintaining these standards. And when it comes to eavesdropping, there's my wife in the gallery, who you've been eavesdropping on for three months, illegally. Shame on you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Lying!]] [[Scandal!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u251	We'll proceed to the vote... Mr Mirosław Suchoń as corrected. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u252	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! The Minister didn't understand me at all. I was talking not about the law directly, because the law does not explicitly specify it, it defines the implementing act in the form of a regulation on interoperability. And in this Regulation, in § Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 It is made clear that the information in the system logs is stored for the period specified in the separate provisions. And that's rule one. And only further do we have that in the absence of separate provisions - for 2 years. I made it clear that if the ABW is to be a service that has access to all the information that is in all the databases, each of you, about each of the 38 million citizens, it is unacceptable that the information about what was downloaded from the ABW is deleted after only 24 months. Ladies and gentlemen, this is what my esteemed previous speaker was talking about. After 2 years, information about what your nominate in the ABW was politically involved with you, what information he was downloading from these systems about all of us. Ladies and gentlemen, this is Orwell in pure form. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u253	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 20th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. 193 votes against - 231, no one abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 21st amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 43. The consequence of this amendment will be the deletion of the article. 60 and amendment to Article 60 65. The adoption of this amendment will render minority proposals 22 to 26 and amendments 22 to 24. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The questions are raised by Mrs Monika Wielichowska, the Civic Platform Club, and then by Mr Mirosław Suchoń.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u254	I understand, Mr. Marshal, that every family member, every wife, every husband, every child is important, and your wife is important to you. Prove it here and now and answer the question of whether your wife was being overheard illegally. That's one thing. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] Back to the amendment. We are prosecuting a law that strikes civil rights under the cloak of the fight against terrorism. [[Some members of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, hit their desks.]] You're not gonna scream reality. When he leaves the Seym and the Senate and is signed by the President, Poland will become a police state, and the police state, ladies and gentlemen, is a dictatorship. [[Applause]] You'll be intimidating, you'll provoke, you'll be surveillance. The law will not depend on the effectiveness of the fight against terrorism, because according to the law all prepaid cards will be registered, e.g. This will allow the services to better monitor threats, including communication between terrorists. Will the next step, Minister, be necessary [[♪ The bell ♪]] PlayStation game registration because there are communicators there too?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u255	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u256	Will the next step be that citizens will have to register before they enter Facebook, Twitter? Is that the next step? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u257	Thank you, Member. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u258	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The communal rumor brings such information that in Poland one terrorist group was caught, sorry, detained. It consisted of two ABW officers and one scientific worker. [[Applause]] [[How witty.]] [[It's for your government.]] I wanted to ask the Minister a question: Do you really believe that the registration of 24 million prepaid service cards, taking into account the number of threats, will reduce terrorist threats? Or, rather, it will impede the normal functioning of citizens, make it difficult for the normal functioning of companies to make it difficult for older people, for those who are not wealthy, who cannot afford to purchase services and telephones under a subscription and who use prepaid services, [[♪ The bell ♪]] They're just gonna lose their ability to make calls? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u259	Thank you. Minister Maciej Wąsik has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u260	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! In reply to the Member of the Civic Platform, let me say this: introduce standards that we will have to prove innocence. I can prove that you've been eavesdropping on my wife illegally... [[Prove it.]] ...because my wife's phone phone is in the application for a wiretap. Do you understand? Exactly. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Voice from the O.R.: You've been convicted for three years.]] [[Quiet.]] And going back to the substance, which is to the prepaids, I will answer with the voice of the professionals. During the work of the Interministerial Terrorist Risk Team, one of the key areas facilitating the prosecution of the perpetrators of false notifications was the obligation for the seller to register the personal data of the person purchasing the SIM prepaid card. Who wrote this? It was written by Mr Grzegorz Karpiński to Mrs Małgorzata Olszewska, your Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs to your Deputy Minister of Digitization, to your Deputy Minister in the Ministry of Administration and Digitization. He wrote this in April 2014, after which the Minister replied: Given the above and the fact that mandatory registration of the SIM prepaid card would be a step to counter terrorism and reduce false emergency calls, I propose that a working meeting be held to discuss the recommendations in detail. You know that, and you've diagnosed it yourself, that prepaid card registration will greatly enhance the work of our services. And then, it was the 2,000th year... [[Voices from the O.R.: Two thousand.]] ...and now the year two thousand fifteen. You created a team that made a recommendation for the adoption of an anti-terrorist bill. Under 11 in these recommendations - this is the team that worked with Minister Piotrowskia - is registration of anonymous prepaid cards. And now you have the nerve to criticize this idea? You've diagnosed it yourself, [[Applause]] This is hypocrisy, this is classic hypocrisy. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u261	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 21st amendment, along with the consequences, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. Three Members abstained in the vote 193 against - 229. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 22nd minority application and the 22nd amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 43. We will vote on these proposals together. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. Three Members are asked questions. Mr Witold Zembaczyński, Modern Club. [[There isn't.]] [[I'm here, I'm here.]] [[This is Zembaczynski? I thought it looked different.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u262	That's funny. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The Anti-Terrorism Act is nothing more than another act of mass surveillance, a document directly violating civil rights, fueling xenophobic moods and giving special services uncontrolled power. [[Crusades.]] This wrong law cannot be introduced by the Sejm under government dictation in silence. The Act does not provide for any protection of defence, professional secrecy, communication and correspondence, deprives foreigners of the right to attorneys, including citizens of the European Union, allows without the permission of the court to monitor them with impunity, which will, of course, reduce the investment attractiveness of Poland for foreign investors, in the care of its own business secrets. [[You think about what you're saying.]] The project devastates the protection of citizens' digital rights and is far more intrusive than the US Patriot Act, [[♪ The bell ♪]] The use of which in the United States has long been abandoned.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u263	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u264	Hence my question to the Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u265	Thank you, sir. Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u266	...where this project came from, because if it's from this blue file, it looks like someone replaced it with the Prime Minister. Thank you very much. [[Come down.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u267	Thank you very much, sir. I encourage your Members to formulate in their statements some decent terms. PiS law? There's no such thing as PiS law. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Ms Anna Maria Siarkowska, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u268	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! You know very well, ladies and gentlemen, that we believe that an anti-terrorist law is needed, but this provision, the provision concerning the obligation to register all prepaid cards, is unnecessary, harmful, completely unnecessary and will not improve the safety of Poles in any way. Moreover, there will be 27 million registered prepaid card users, including... [[That's it.]] 2 million young people who, ladies and gentlemen, will no longer buy the card because they will not be able to register for evidence. Thus, in no way will this provision improve the safety of Poles and referring here to Germany, that they are so great and have just introduced the obligation to register prepaid cards, it is absurd to say so, because Germany, when it comes to restricting civil liberties and freedoms, should not be an example for Poland in any way. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u269	Please. Mr Krzysztof Brejza, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u270	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! Speaking of operational control, you know what this case is about. [[Do you?]] I hope you can also inform the public if you have nothing to hide. For the first time in the history of police operations, there was a leak in the course of a special operation, a leak in transcripts. There were four people who could have made this happen. If the court found that a wire was necessary, the court's review after hearing the materials... Unfortunately, there was no judgment in this case, but in another case there was a civil court judgment, which the court found... The only case of the journalist's unlawful surveillance was the collection of your editor's phone records, the Gazeta Wyborcza, Zbigniew Wróblewski for your government, at your request. You're the one who downloaded those phone records. [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] Central Bureau of Corruption must have apologized in the Polish press... [[Polish-speaking.]] ...for the only case of illegal billing. You were also pardoned in an unacceptable manner by President Andrzej Duda for eavesdropping. Who? Messengers. It was a ground operation. [[Applause]] [[In constitutional mode.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u271	Thank you, sir. Mr Sylvester Tulaev, Club Law and Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u272	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask if it is true that the obligation to register prepaid cards already applies in Germany, the UK, Spain, Italy. [[European values.]] Is it true that this obligation exists in 10 countries of the European Union? Is it true that this obligation exists in 80 countries around the world? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u273	Thank you very much. The rapporteur of the committee, Mr Jarosław Krajewski, asks for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u274	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to answer these questions, because I have the irrefutable impression that the most active Members of the Civic Platform today did not participate in the work or subcommittee or the commission on this bill, and they often express themselves in such a way as to indicate that they have not even read this law once, they mislead Poles. [[Applause]] As far as prepaid cards are concerned, answering Mr Tulayev's question is true, there is a principle of deanonymisation of prepaid cards in 80 countries around the world. But we can also mention those countries that are in many cases an example for you from the Civic Platform. Well, Germany, Italy, Spain, Brazil, Australia, Switzerland, Slovakia, Hungary, Denmark, Greece, Norway and the Netherlands apply the same rules for limiting the sale of prepaid cards. [[Europeans.]] And it is important that we remember that this is the solution that many countries in the European Union are pursuing. [[Voice from the room: So what?]] But what's more, if we're talking about surveillance issues, it's also worth telling you that you've just got the wrong time. For the last eight years, we've had cases involving 52 journalists, priest surveillance, surveillance... [[Lie!]] ...participants and organizers of assemblies, legal public gatherings. [[Lie!]] This bill we're talking about today is a law against terrorists. And you're just wrong about things. You are remembering your 8 years, surveillance, many cases of action at the border of law, which took place for 8 years of the government of PO-PSL. [[Lie!]] That is why it is also worthwhile for each of you to reconsider how to vote on this law, because if someone is in favour of fighting terrorism, they should support the Anti-Terrorism Act. There is no way to be in the fight against terrorists on the one hand and against the Anti-Terrorism Act on the other. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[You can, you can.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u275	There you go. I'd just like you not to shout in the courtroom. I particularly ask Mrs Kochan not to shout in the Chamber. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, if any of you have a different opinion on this subject and want to formulate your statements in this way, at the end of each day, there are Members' statements at the end of the meeting and there are these shouts... [[I won't, thank you.]] ...and not even, I don't encourage shouting, there you can speak. [[Applause]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 22nd minority proposal and the 22nd amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 196 voted against - 233, 4 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the proposals. In the 23rd amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 60. The adoption of this amendment will render minority proposals between 23rd and 25 unobtrusive. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Marek Wójcik, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u276	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! First of all, there was no illegal surveillance. [[Applause]] Every time we explain this matter about one police service, there's a complaint about the Homeland Security Office, and so on. We're used to these charges. Even none of your ministers have confirmed it was illegal surveillance. There was no illegal surveillance of journalists during the PO-PSL regime. [[Applause]] [[There was surveillance.]] On the subject, there are about 27 million telephone cards in Poland. The rule proposed by the Government of Law and Justice makes all unregistered cards no longer work in eight months. This is an unrealistic, completely unrealistic term that will lead to this... [[That's not true.]] ...that millions of Poles using prepiad cards will be deprived of contact. Minister, please inform me if you take responsibility for the safety of these Poles, [[♪ The bell ♪]] who will be deprived of contact with a doctor, guardian, loved ones from day to day. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u277	Wait a minute. The formal motion will have to wait. Minister Maciej Wąsik answers.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u278	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will respond to the second part of Mr Wójcik's speech. Because the representatives of the operators participated in the work of the committee, the subcommittees and reported that the problem was not 8 months, because it would not be from day to day, only 8 months, but they said it would be uncomfortable for the expiry of prepaid cards to be for the holiday period, or January 1 or 2. We went hand-to-hand with the operators, extended the deadline by one month, until February 1. That's enough. Don't worry about the operators. They'll be fine. They've already taken steps. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u279	Please. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 23rd amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 191 voted against - 230, 8 Members abstained. I find that the Sejm has rejected the proposal. [[Voice from the room: Formal conclusion.]] The formal proposal is made by Janusz Sanocki, a non-attached Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u280	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's Friday, [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] and we hear a hundred of the same questions about issues that have already been clarified. I ask, Mr Marshal, to take the floor of those Members who repeat the same questions. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Go home.]] [[Voice from the room: Make a ticket.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u281	Ladies and gentlemen, please don't shout. Firstly, I cannot accept this proposal as a formal proposal. [[Voice from the room: But we will vote.]] Secondly, I would like to point out to you that if there are questions, please ask questions on the substance of the next specific proposal or amendment and not to make a statement. In the 23rd minority proposal to Article. 60 (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) This proposal is combined with 25. minority request. We will vote on these proposals together. The adoption of these minority proposals will result in the nullity of the 24th and 26th minority proposals and the 24th amendments. The question is raised by Monika Wielichowska, the Civic Platform Club. [[She's not here.]] [[Voice from the room: There it is, there it is.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u282	Thank you, Marshal. High Izbo! Since martial law, no government has given itself such powers, such enormous control... [[From Catherine's Tsarica.]] ...on the citizens, like you in this bill, the anti-democratic bill. The functioning of services in democracy is not about tracking, it's not about eavesdropping, it's not about surveillance or registration. I will refer to the words of the rapporteur, who mentioned a number of European Union countries where phones are registered. [[Voice from the room: The whole world.]] I can, of course, name another one. The ones where it doesn't happen. [[Voice from the room: Name it.]] Portugal, Sweden, Ireland, Czech Republic, and above all the Internet. Any Pole on the Internet will be able to... [[Does this apply to time limits for entry into force?]] ...buy an unregistered card. But I have a question for the rapporteur. Is there a person, a politician, in charge of such services in any of these countries, convicted of abuse of his authority? That's the most important question today. [[Moving in the hall, applause, ringing bell]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u283	I was just asking you to ask about it. It was a question right next door. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: It was about.]] [[That's about it.]] [[You simply do not know yourself, Bulgaria is on this list.]] We'll proceed with the vote. [[Voice from the room: The question was.]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the minority proposals 23rd and 25th will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. The vote was 199, against 230, and no one abstained. I find that the Sejm has rejected its conclusions. In the 24th minority proposal to Article. 60 (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) The question is asked by Mr Adam Szłapka, a modern club. Let me remind you, it's a 24th minority motion.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u284	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! No one in this Chamber disputes that citizens' safety is a fundamental value. On the other hand, Mr President, I am addressing the rapporteur - it is not right to argue that if anyone is against the Anti-Terrorism Act, he is a person who supports terrorism. Services can be given tools to combat terrorism effectively, but not at the expense of fundamental citizens' values. The process of proceding this law shows the intentions of Law and Justice. You rejected the public consultation, you ignored the public hearing, you rejected practically all the amendments that were designed to civilise this law and increase the scope of control by independent courts and by the legislative authority. After the Police Act, after the Attorney's Office Act, after the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, this is another law that gives you a tool, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which will restrict and threaten citizens' freedom. Why?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u285	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u286	Because it clearly does not serve the safety of citizens. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u287	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 24th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. The vote was 198, against 230, and no one abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 26th minority proposal to Article. 65 applicants propose to amend the date of entry into force of the Act. The adoption of this minority proposal will render the 24th amendment futile. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 26th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. The vote was 198, against 234, and no one held back. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 24th amendment to the article. 65 applicants propose to amend the date of entry into force of the Act. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is raised by Mirosław Suchoń, a modern club. Isn't it? [[Voices from the room: No! No!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u288	Yes, thank you. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask the Minister whether any proportionality test and feasibility test have been carried out for this law, which are covered by the articles we want to change. In our view, neither such a proportionality test has been carried out, nor even more so the feasibility test of the provision, which makes it necessary to register... [[We're talking about the date of entry into force of the law.]] ...over 23 million prepaid cards. Ladies and gentlemen, from the commune and the totalitarian system you can leave. Unfortunately, this commune and this totalitarian system stay in man. [[Calm down.]] Unfortunately, this law reflects the totalitarianism that sits in its authors. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u289	Please. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 24th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. The vote was 199, against 233, and no one abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. [[Time out.]] We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. The question was asked by Witold Zembaczyński, a modern club. [[Oh, my God.]] [[Give it a rest...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u290	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister Wąsik! You unveiled your soft underbelly today. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] You have shown in this Chamber that the true intention of writing this bill is not to care for the safety of the citizens, but to seek revenge. And I want to tell you that Poland does not consist solely of the Civic Platform that ruled and the PiS. It also includes citizens who will suffer as a result of the introduction of these rules. [[Applause]] The bill you're proposing is poorly prepared, interfering with more than 70 other acts. You haven't given anyone time to put forward your substantive position on non-constitutional rules that are incompatible with many other acts. You create a false impression that only you care about the safety of Poles. It's not like that at all. [[Yes, sir.]] ...because the fact that you nailed her here in this room today does not provide security for Poles at all during the upcoming events. And don't make such an impression that only the services and you care about security, because it's also the opposition's mind. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr Tarczynski...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u291	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u292	...if you have something to say, I'm inviting you here, but that's all you need to have the courage to do. [[Applause]] [[Stop yelling. Don't scream.]] [[Come down.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u293	First of all, I draw Mr Zembaczynski's attention so that he does not use such words... [[Like what?]] ...because it's a metaphor too far gone and out of place. And second of all, your speech wasn't in question mode, so I'm paying your second attention. [[Bravo!]] [[Punishment of 5,000. And that's it.]] Mr Krzysztof Brejza, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u294	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Under the cloak of the fight against terrorism, you want to tie your citizens in chains. The best comparison is what Mr. Wąsik said: that the ABW will actually be like a chimney sweep - it will enter when it wants to, into the house. Yeah, that's a great comparison. [[Applause]] This is a dangerous act, supplementing the surveillance you introduced in January. Actually, the Venice Commission - it takes 1.5 hours, you did not refer to it - said that Internet data must be obtained with the permission of the court. [[What do we care?]] It's been gone since January. [[Does the Venice Commission care about the safety of Poles?]] You propose eavesdropping of mobile phones without judicial review; mail checks, e-mails, e-mails - without court control; computer hacks - without court control; remote hacks into systems under the pretense of testing, outside the plan, without notifying the interested party - without judicial review; a review of any databases in this country - without court control. I don't know why. [[For your own safety.]] I just figured out why you're so afraid of court. Maybe you have some negative experiences. It's not an anti-terrorism bill, it's a muzzle bill, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Fighting society. This is Orwell 2016. [[Applause]] [[Some of the MPs are hitting the desks.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u295	Thank you, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, this was also a form of statement, not a statement in the way of asking a question. [[Mr. Marshal, the Larum is playing.]] Is it true that this is the mode of questioning? [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] Mr Paweł Lisiecki, Club Law and Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u296	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! First, I'm going to ask the applicants a question for formality. Does the Act violate the Charter of Fundamental Rights? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] And now the justification in the form of a statement. It is alleged to applicants that this law is too late to enter into force, at least a year too late. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: But this is a circumvention of the law.]] Meanwhile, the previous term of office worked on an anti-terrorist law. The government was working on it, the bill passed the first reading, she was on the committee, and then in the subcommittee, and she was stuck there. [[Bullshit!]] In theory, the PO-PSL coalition did something, but unfortunately the theoretical state came out of it. I hope that this law is another step in order for Poland to stop being a theoretical state and become a really caring country for its citizens. [[Yes, sir.]] And to critics, I have a request: stop caring only about the rights of terrorists... [[Yes, sir.]] ...and take care of the safety of our country's citizens. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Take a slap on the head.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u297	Thank you very much. Maciej Wąsik, Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u298	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! [[Voice from the room: I was listening...]] [[I'm listening and I'm listening.]] [[Quiet down there.]] This debate shows who's who. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] This debate shows who cares about the safety of Poland and Poles. You don't care about that, Civic Platform. [[Lie!]] You don't care. [[What kind of language is that, Marshal? This isn't a yard.]] We have created a law that will take care of the safety of Poles, which will give Polish services... [[You're not CBA.]] ...such tools to protect yourself from the plague of terrorism. You've known for a long time that rules have to be made. You couldn't do it. [[You're lying.]] All you can do is scream, scream... [[You're the one screaming.]] ...and scurry. [[Applause]] [[Language!]] I'm amazed at your attitude. In the last election, you received 25%. Voices. [[Why are you yelling like that?]] Now you have 12%. Voices. And if the Poles had a camera and they saw what I see, those bad faces, those screams, you'd be 3%. They got it. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Sir...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u299	The committee rapporteur, Mr Jarosław Krajewski, will speak. [[Mr. Marshal, formal motion.]] Committee rapporteur Mr Jarosław Krajewski. [[What's this? The conclusion is formal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u300	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I would like to address any questions, comments from your Members. First of all, I would like to refer ad vocem to Mrs Wielichowska, who did not participate in the work of either the subcommittee or the committee. [[He doesn't have to, but he can speak.]] [[What difference does it make?]] I would like to point out that in Poland there is a presumption of innocence and in the case that you mentioned, i.e. an outrageous judgment and - what is important and worth mentioning - an illegal judgment of the court in Mariusz Kaminski's case [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] And Minister Maciej Wąsik, it's worth remembering. [[Do you hear yourself, sir?]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Can an innocent be pardoned?]] This case reminds us that those who wanted to fight corruption in your day were to be held accountable for this fight. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Lie! Lie!]] And that's a scandal. This is an outrage. But it happened during your reign. Fortunately, the Poles said enough and ended the PO-PSL rule. [[And they're gonna end the PiS rule sooner or later, and they're gonna end the PiS rule.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the issue of consultation has been highlighted. It's very important. We take seriously both NGOs and any citizen who has made any proposals for amendments or comments to this bill. Any organisation which in any way wanted to take the floor on this matter was not only heard but also invited to committee and subcommittee meetings. Moreover, we talked about concrete proposals and concrete comments, and one of the requests which was made by one of the Chambers regarding the extension of the term of the current prepaid services, so-called. prepaid cards, was taken into account by us and hence the deadline of 2 February 2017. [[February.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, we would also like to talk about trust in you, because let us remember that the institutions that will carry out this good law on anti-terrorist activities in my opinion are the police, the State Fire Department, the Border Guard, the Armed Forces or the Polish special forces. So either we have confidence in the institution of the state... [[We don't have a PiS state.]] ...or you want to have more confidence in unpredictable, ruthless actions and those who are scared across Europe. You've probably heard of Al Qaeda, the so-called Al Qaeda. The Islamic State. I encourage you first to be more careful and more responsible before the vote, which will de facto vote on whether the principle of zero tolerance for terrorists is to apply in Poland, or whether you will oppose this principle. It's worth thinking about. [[Applause]] [[You're lying.]] [[Bravo!]] Ladies and gentlemen, the issue of the Venice Commission was raised by Mr Breiza. [[But this is not a committee report.]] It is important to remind you that this is only an advisory body of the Council of Europe... [[It's just an editorial.]] ...and the opinions on the Venice Commission are very different. It's worth remembering. Here, in the Polish Parliament we create a law that will guarantee the safety of all Polish families... [[Yes, sir.]] [[You're lying.]] ...and the same to foreigners residing on the territory of the Republic of Poland who come to our country. This is a law that clearly defines zero tolerance for terrorists. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u301	The formal proposal was made by Mr Rafał Grupiński, the Civic Platform. [[Don't insult me.]] [[Look who's talking.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u302	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask your marshal to convene the Senior Convention and to hold a break for this time in the proceedings of the High House. [[For dinner.]] Not for dinner, Mr Suski, but for the Marshal of Minister Wąsik, who is also a Member, to say that the way he addresses the opposition... [[But it builds tension.]] ...first of all, he's not a good minister, second of all, he's dirty... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Keep it down.]] ...third, it has nothing to do with the language of parliamentarianism... [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] ...and fourth, so he doesn't wave his hand at us. And now I'm gonna say yes. Minister Wąsik, sentenced to three years for abuse of power... [[What abuse of power?]] ...prepares citizens with a law in which this abuse is only extended. And Jarosław Kaczyński, Mr Jarosław Kaczyński... [[Voice from the room: Do not wave your hand!]] ...who's changing today, which... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] I'm not waving my hand. I'm lifting it. Mr Jarosław Kaczyński, who is changing the Republic today, will unfortunately not have the so-called. Annals of history too pleasant memories. In general, Mr President, I am very sorry, but you will rather be called - and it will not be pleasant - Jack the Ripper of Polish democracy... [[Voice from the hall: Don't tell stories.]] ...not the man who really changes her. Thank you. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Voice from the room: This is not true.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u303	Minister Maciej Wąsik. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Marshal...]] [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik resigns on the speaker of Mr Jarosław Kaczyński, cheerfulness in the hall, applause]] President Jarosław Kaczyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u304	Mr. Marshal, the opposite voice. I'm entitled to that. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha.]] [[Bravo!]] In short, you once had the support of a large part of the justice system to defend thieves. Now you're defending terrorists. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u305	Minister Maciej Wąsik.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u306	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Just one sentence for Mr. Groupinski. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Mr Grubinski. [[No one asked the Minister.]] [[Voice from the room: He turned.]] I'd rather sit on the bench with Mariusz Kaminski than be acquitted with Beata Sawicka. [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice rise, applause]] [[Bravo! Bravo, Maciek!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u307	Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister-Member of the Council of Ministers Mariusz Kaminski will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u308	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Dear High Izbo! We had the opportunity, we had the chance as Members to discuss the most important issues concerning the basic security of Poles. There was a chance for such a discussion, and even some elements of this discussion appeared in committee meetings. I would like to thank those Members who have shown genuine concern for the safety of our countrymen... [[They pardoned you.]] ...in particular the members of the Kukiz Group15, [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] which some of the amendments that have been adopted have significantly enriched the government project. Ladies and gentlemen - I am talking to those who here at the moment wanted to give a specific tone to this debate on security issues - that you are not able to offend me, my colleagues. We're not gonna bid on who's been monitoring who, in a bad way, that's the subject. for a separate discussion. As far as your doubts are concerned, the requests to the prosecution were made in the context of what your services at the time when you were driving them were doing to Poles - Poles. And political opponents. The prosecution will answer a number of questions that have been hung up in the air. But you can't offend me, Maciek, insult our closest associates. [[Voice from the hall: Maciek?]] [[Don't threaten, don't threaten.]] There's one thing I want to tell you. We will do everything within the limits of our current responsibility given to us by the voters, ordinary Poles... [[Yeah, with Lepper.]] ...to prepare our country for the worst things, to avoid innocent Polish victims. Not just Polish victims, innocent people. That's what this bill is about, that's what this bill is about. Not your evil insinuations... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[You're lying.]] [[What right?]] ...but the safety of Poles. And it was worth it, if this bill passes, if it saves at least one innocent life, it was worth listening to your insults. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u309	We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole... [[Mr. Marshal...]] [[The joy, the excitement in the room.]] ...in print version 567, along with the adopted amendment, he will raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 249 Members voted against - 173, 10 Members abstained. The Sejm passed a law on anti-terrorist actions. [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice rise, applause]] [[Mr. Marshal, the corrigendum.]] I would like to inform Mrs Wielichowska that you have not taken part in this point of discussion... [[Formal conclusion.]] ...so you're not entitled to a corrigendum. [[I've been replaced, Marshal.]] Please make a statement at the end of the session of the Sejm. [[No, definitely not.]] The formal proposal was made by Boris Budka, the Civic Platform. [[Formal conclusion, Mr. Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u310	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! In accordance with Article 2, the following paragraph is added: Paragraph 184. 3 point 1 here I would like to make a request for adjournment. The justification, which I hope will be heard by your marshal, is as follows. I suggest we postpone the session until December at this point. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Yes, Mr. President Kaczyński, until December. Why? Because, as we all know, you are waiting for this date with longing. [[Are you normal?]] You destroyed the Constitutional Tribunal last December. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] You've caused paralysis just so you can make that kind of legislation... [[That's a good idea.]] ...to be able to destroy the Polish agricultural system in order to destroy the public service, to destroy the police, so as to be able to surveillance citizens, and then to go after the justice system, to turn the age of the judges into a resting state, to first direct the National Judicial Council so that your representatives in the courts are more. But you are striving for one, that in December of this year one of the Members' sleeps be fulfilled, namely to take over the Constitutional Tribunal. [[But I'm dreaming it too.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] That is why, Mr. Marshal, this proposal is justified because you have made the Constitutional Court enemy number one. The President has made President Rzepliński's enemy number one. And that's what you're waiting for December. You're telling the public that you want a compromise. You don't know that word. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[But what does he say that about?]] Mr. President, stop fooling the Poles. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u311	I will pass this motion, but I take it as part of the introduction of obstructions to the Sejm's sitting. [[Yes, sir.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of a formal request for adjournment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. 149 votes against - 246 and 26 abstentions. The request was not accepted. [[Time out.]] [[There was a chance. You didn't take it.]] [[Voice from the room: Break.]] I'm calling a 20-minute break. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 15 minutes 30 hours 15 min 58]] I'm reopening the session. Is Marek Jakubiak, a Kukiz club15? We return to the examination of item 20 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on the Constitutional Tribunal. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, will refer this draft law to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. I don't see Mr Jakub. The questions are raised by Members. Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u312	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! No law will end this PiS attack on the Constitutional Tribunal. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] This conflict cannot be ended in the Seym. The problem is that the Constitution is not respected by the executive authority, not by the way the Constitutional Tribunal operates. [[Applause]] In order to bring an end to this conflict between the PiS and the Tribunal, it is necessary to take the oath taken by the President and publish the judgment by the Prime Minister. Your behavior can be compared to the behavior of someone who invites you to talk about the renovation of the house, about choosing the color of the paint for the living room, and in fact orders a company that wants to tear down the whole house. [[It was about the ski mask today.]] The fact that you want to talk, you build this vision of those willing to dialogue, it's fiction, it's appearances. This law is contrary to the opinion of the Venice Commission, the Constitutional Tribunal's rulings and the opinions of a number of experts. Why are you proposing solutions that have already been declared paralyzing the Constitutional Tribunal - that is, ruling according to the order of influence or qualified majority 2/3? Is that an agreement? This is fiction, this is mockery of Poles. This bill leads to paralysis of the Constitutional Tribunal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u313	Thank you, Member. Mr Krzysztof Brejza, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u314	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! This year it is 510 years since the announcement of the Statute of Jan Łaski. It was a statute which introduced the rule of law in Poland, the rule of law consisting in publishing legal acts. By unlawfully withholding the Constitutional Court's judgment, you will indeed go back to history. [[The Constitution is which one is it?]] What you propose in your bill is another attempt to paralyze the tribunal: queuing cases that will block the tribunal, a majority of 2/3 clearly incompatible with the Article. 190 constitutions that talk about the majority of ordinary people. The Venice Commission, which you invited to Poland, stated that the combination of these two of your proposals is directly contrary to the rule of law. You already had a problem with the publication of the ruling of the tribunal in December. The printer was repaired by an independent D.A.'s office, and unfortunately now the D.A.'s office has turned into a psyche. So I have a question: why do you continue to propose solutions which are contrary to the opinion of the Venice Commission, with the opinions of the Constitutionalists, with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal? What are your intentions, really? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u315	Mr Łukasz Schreiber, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u316	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Three brief cases only. First of all, you continue to bet, and yesterday you also put on a sign of equality between democracy and the Constitutional Tribunal, while democracy has been known since the ancient Greeks, and the Constitutional Tribunal, constitutional courts since the interwar period. [[Applause]] Case number two, ladies and gentlemen. You are also constantly talking about this, you are referring to the European Commission, to the Venice Commission, but there are countries in the same European Union that do not know the constitutional courts. The best example is the Netherlands, in which Article. 120 even stated explicitly that the judge did not rule on the constitutionality of laws or treaties. And case three. After all, none of us are talking about eliminating the Constitutional Tribunal, but only about eliminating the two legal regimes that exist today. And you don't even want to talk about it, even here there's no compromise. For you, compromise is your dictatorship, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And the High House shouldn't accept that. [[Applause]] [[Who was that question to?]] [[There was no question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u317	Thank you very much. Well, actually, ladies and gentlemen, by the way, I should... [[Punish me.]] Punish me no, but... [[Obedience.]] ...to pay serious attention to the fact that these were so general questions that... I don't want to use the word here... which merely confirms the suspicion that they weren't directed to gain any reliable knowledge. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting the motion for rejection at first reading of the bill contained in print 558 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 408 Members voted. 148 votes against - 260, no one abstained. I state that the Sejm rejected the application and therefore referred this draft law to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. We return to the examination of item 21 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Constitutional Tribunal Act. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. And here the question is put by Mrs Barbara Dolniak, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u318	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the PSL representative. I want to ask you about compliance with the Art Constitution. Article 43 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and 2, namely the transfer of judges elected on 8 October and 2 December 2015 to retirement or, if so, an emergency option, the resignation of the office. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] This proposal is incompatible with the Constitution, because the judge is irresistible unless he is removed from office by disciplinary action. Besides, there is a term of office and it is elected once for a term of office. Therefore, we have either - or, and in any case wrong, because we cannot ask the judge to waive the office, since he has the right to exercise it in a given term of office, and cannot be moved to rest if he has such a right, and it is not a compulsion. As for the rules, Marshal, not only do I know him, but I also apply them, although sometimes reality makes it impossible for me to do so. Unfortunately, last time I took an example from your marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u319	Thank you, Member. Honestly, I don't know what's going on, but I understand we'll sort this out. Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish will speak on behalf of the applicants.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u320	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Your Marshal, only one institution, i.e. The Constitutional Tribunal. I understand that you have expressed your opinion on this subject. We have the opposite - we have opinions that testify to the compatibility with the Constitution. Since these six judges have not begun their term of office, we can propose a retirement in the bill. The resolution of personal issues today is one of the fundamental elements, apart from the issue of publication and the future of the tribunal, necessary to get out of the constitutional chaos in which we are stuck. You decided to pull out of this game and withdraw your project. I do not fully understand this, because if someone wants to try to change reality to a better one, it presents its arguments, presents its projects and aims to accept them. We as the Polish People's Party will strive to ensure that this tribal war ends in order to resolve the issue of the Constitutional Tribunal and restore normality. Our bill, in the opinion of the constitutionalists whom we have consulted, is in line with the Constitution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u321	Thank you very much. Your marshal in corrigendum mode? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u322	I don't think you understand me, sir. Yes, if the term of office hasn't begun, and this is where it started, because the Sejm makes the choice, not the president. The vowing has a different meaning here, it begins technical activities, that is, judging, but the choice is made in this Chamber. [[Applause]] We cannot create a rule that will correct someone's mistake, because in this way we will create a rule that corrects their error, and especially the violation of the law. The way is simple: take a vow and you don't have to change anything. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Accept it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u323	We understand. Corrigendum to the corrigendum, Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish. Please. As an applicant Member, I apologize on behalf of the applicants.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u324	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Marshal! We're different on this issue. We want to end this dispute, stop it, move on to normality. You have to open yourself up to different types of options. Really, accept the act of the Polish People's Party. She's a lot better than the PiS bill. I think for you... Because there are also arguments that you often make, i.e. the publication of a judgment or the question of resolving a personal dispute. It is not worth wiping out your rhetoric and not looking for new solutions. This solution is innovative, but the situation that we have been in for several months requires over-standard solutions and requires compromise. I would like to encourage you to do so with the marshal and the entire modern club, as well as the Platform, the PiS and Kukiz15. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u325	There you go. I don't think there's any need for correction here anymore. [[Joy in the Chamber]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the bill in print 569 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 32 MEPs voted against - 276, with 118 abstentions. I state that the Sejm rejected the proposal and therefore referred this draft law to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. The Sejm at the 5th and 11th meetings of the Sejm addressed drafts of laws: amending the Act on the Constitutional Tribunal, contained in print No 129, as well as amending the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, contained in print No 166, to the Legislative Commission. I propose that the Sejm refer these draft laws to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We are returning to the review of item 26 of the agenda: Report of the Health Commission on the government draft law amending the Law on Medical Activity and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 604-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Tomasz Latos to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u326	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Health Committee, I have the honour to present an additional report, print No 604-A, on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Medical Activity and some other laws, print No 562. The Health Commission, after considering the amendments at its meeting on 10 June 2016, asks the High Sejm to reject all the amendments tabled. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u327	Please. Thank you, sir. The Commission, as we have heard, calls for the adoption of a print project No 604. The Commission also makes a proposal for rejection, on which we will vote first, as well as amendments. The Commission requests that this request be rejected. I would remind you that accepting a motion for rejection will render the remaining proposals irrelevant. The questions have been raised by the Members. Mr Rajmund Miller, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u328	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Seym! I'd like to ask the Prime Minister a question. Does the Prime Minister remember who said such words during the election campaign: We must return to budget financing, but by voivodeships, in order to create a more effective and fairer system in which the patient will be the most important player? When did the Prime Minister say it wasn't true? Then or today, when you agree to have an outrageous bill that's already broken the world record? 35 hours, Prime Minister? It was submitted on 3 June, and on 6 June it was directed to read. A bill that... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: You need to improve.]] Mr. Marshal! Watch the O.R., don't let me interrupt. [[Voice from the courtroom: The marshal rules, not you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u329	Are you done?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u330	No, I'm not done. I would like to ask you to treat all Members equally. Prime Minister! [[♪ The bell ♪]] This bill that's coming in today is putting all the burdens on the local government. You will lead to the closure of many hospitals and bankruptcy clinics. [[Voice from the room: Time!]] I wanted to tell you that after nine months, when the government doesn't have any money to pay off their debts, he's gonna have to close the medical facility...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u331	Thank you, sir. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Time's up.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u332	And what are you laughing at? That's not funny at all. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Time's up.]] [[Sit down!]] I'm not with you on you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u333	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Andżelik Możjanowska, a club of the Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u334	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I understand the fight against terrorists, but I do not understand the fight against local governments, Polish hospitals and Polish patients. In a sprint, you are only fighting with a Polish patient today, because you are preventing investments from those local governments, those hospitals that have planned them in the budget, because you are burdening them with the fact that they will have to co-finance the treatment. You're really throwing the responsibility of the state, all of us taxpayers, into local governments. How will you return to your little homelands, the self-governments of today, who sit on the side of the rulers? With what responsibility? You're acting, ladies and gentlemen, just like Angela Merkel, who first invited the emigrants, and now wants to send them back to others. That's what you do with health care. [[Angela Merkel.]] First you promised to solve the problem systemically, and now you're burdening the local government. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Think about the solution. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u335	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. 189 voted against 229, no one abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. Amendments 1 and 2 were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Act on Medical Activity. In the first amendment, applicants propose not to add to the Article. 6 paragraphs 9 to 11. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. This is where the Members come in. Mr Krystian Jarubas, Polish People's Party. [[The voice from the room: Oh, this is going to be interesting.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u336	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The PiS project on medicinal activity should be called a project on harmful activity. [[Applause]] [[A voice from the room: I told you!]] Harmful to the patient, harmful to local governments and harmful to health care. It is characterized by the desire to divide Poland into better and worse, this time in terms of health care. Your novel will cause, among others. The fact that rich local governments will be able to buy health services for residents, but poor local authorities will no longer be able to afford it. Doesn't that agree with the principle of equal access to medical services, Mr Kaleta? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[You're talking and you've got it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u337	Mr Marek Owa, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor. [[Next.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u338	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! This bill abolishes the responsibility of PiS and transfers it to local governments, [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] So that the Prime Minister can come out of hiding, go to potential protesters and identify the responsible people in this situation. But in addition, this law, especially this amendment that we are proposing, wants to bring about the previous state so that this law can be constitutional in general. Because you're restricting property rights, e.g. You're banning dividend collection. I would like to ask the Minister - because your deputy yesterday did not know the answer - whether you know the case over the last 8 years, so that any local government company or the Treasury, and there are 143, as you say, wanted... some local government took the money in the form of dividends during that time. I'm sure the Minister doesn't know the answer. I'll answer that. No government has requested any dividend, [[♪ The bell ♪]] But he raised and capitalized companies many times. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u339	Minister, in a moment. The Minister will answer you, Mr... [[Voices from the room: No!]] ...but in a minute. Mrs Kopcińska, Law and Justice have the floor at the moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u340	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Mr President, it is exactly the opposite. This law no longer divides Poland into Poland A and B. This law, in accordance with the constitutional provisions, allows the protection of the state over all citizens. What you are proposing in this amendment is that you want to hand over majority shares to private parties. That's what's causing your amendment. You make it possible for a private entity to participate in medical facilities. [[Voice from the room: Question!]] You do not want to recognise the validity of not paying the dividend and reinvesting it for statutory purposes, and so recently you cared about employees, about their salaries. And that's what the money can be used for. Please consider the validity of your proposal. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[And it wasn't: Is it true...?]] [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u341	Minister Konstanty Radziwiłł, Minister of Health. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u342	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I must say that I am astonished at all to see that someone in this room, I will say strongly, dares to propose such an amendment. Because it's just... I am a politician recently, but an observer of the political scene for a long time, and until recently I was one of those citizens who heard that someone wants, intends, is doing a stunt to privatize public health services in Poland. [[So what?]] Some were very violently denying that it wasn't true. Ladies and gentlemen, we are stopping the trial right now. We want to stop him with this article, which is the subject of this amendment. We want to stop what one newspaper wrote directly about, that some of them are racing Radziwill to privatize. [[Don't overestimate yourself.]] And in recent weeks, in recent months, several facts of privatisation to date have taken place in public hospitals. This article, which is the subject of your discussion at the moment, is about to stop it. [[Applause]] And you say no. After all, in this article, it is said that in the case of this hospital, which has already become a company - it can be discussed whether it is good or bad - it can be discussed on this subject - this company has remained at least 51% in the hands of the public authority. Is that a lot? Ladies and gentlemen, you simply want to privatize public health services. That's not what he's gonna do. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u343	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 187 votes against - 235, 3 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the second amendment, applicants propose to maintain the existing Article. 59. Amendment 6 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that these amendments be rejected. Accepting them will result in the unobjectability of Amendment 7. The questions are raised by Mrs Elżbieta Gelert, the Civic Platform, and then by Mr Jarubas.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u344	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask the Minister: Is it true that the net loss for 2017 must be borne by the founding body, i.e. the local government, and if it does not cover it, then the medicinal plant must either liquidate or transform into a capital company, including 51% Is there going to be a share of the local government? If there are such situations, do you predict that there will be liquidation of hospitals or that there will be transformations into companies? What actions, what corrective plans does the Ministry have in this case in relation to what is in place of the wound up medical facilities? And that's a question you might already have to ask the Minister. Minister, are you working, working, I don't know, like now, in public health or in private? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u345	Thank you. Mr Krystian Jarubas, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u346	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! [[I'm not talking anymore.]] Rightfully, Mr Kaleta, do not speak. [[I'm kidding.]] I would like to dedicate to you the medical maxim: Primum non nocere, first of all do not harm. [[Voice from the room: Something similar.]] Dear PiS... [[Voice from the room: Uh...]] ...if you continue to treat like this, as we can see, before you know it, the patient will die. Therefore, I ask: Do you want to create an NFZ encore without money from well-functioning local governments? For what purpose? Is this the purpose of imposing responsibility on the county authorities and trying to discredit them? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Fantastic.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u347	I would like to draw your attention - if you are asking a question, ask a question that makes some sense, not in such an abusive way. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Mr. Marshal...]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 2 and 6, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. 189 voted against - 229, with four abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the third amendment to the article. The 10th draft amending act amending the Municipal Economy Act proposes to maintain the current wording of the article. 3 (1) (a) 1. Amendment 5 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that these amendments be rejected. Ms Elżbieta Radziszewska, Civic Platform, asks. [[Just don't yell.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u348	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs Kopcińska said that this bill would allow Poland A and B to be absent. Now it will be Poland A and B. The Local Government, which has money, will pay extra. Self-government, which has no money because it is poorer, is from Poland B, will not pay. Self-government, which has many hospitals in which it has different services, the patient gets these services - because it will only be possible to co-finance what is in a given hospital, overperformance, nothing else. A small municipality, a small district, which owns the ZoZ, will not be able to pay for what the inhabitants need, but for what this law indicates. And this is Poland. A and B equals? I am no longer talking about the fact that the poor government, which today is unable to support - in various forms: renovations, equipment - its hospital, and the hospital has a debt if, by order of this law, it does not pay this net loss, [[♪ The bell ♪]] It was that poor government that had to That's what the bill says. Therefore, in Poland A will be fine, and in Poland B will be poor, because to the poor always the wind in the eyes. And it will be yours and yours alone. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: 8 years old.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u349	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 3 and 5 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 194 Members voted against - 232, 3 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 4th amendment to the article. 20 draft amending law amending the Law on the Freedom of Economic Activity, the applicants propose to maintain the current wording of the article. 84aa. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is raised by Members. Mr Marek Ruciński, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u350	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to refer to the article. 20, which speaks of freedom of business. The novel of the government project is already putting an inefficient health care system on its head. I have a question for the Minister: Would you agree with me that we are doing a little bit in the virtual world? Are medical procedures that were long, long ago valued economically real? Therefore, imagine when a government must cover a net loss, this is a huge expense for it. For the National Health Fund this expenditure was rather small, while for territorial units such expenditures are huge expenditures. And that's why the second question to the Minister. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Isn't this an attempt to shift responsibility to local governments for inability and inability to protect health? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u351	Thank you. The voice has... [[Same question.]] ...społeł Angelika Możjanowska, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u352	Thank you very much. [[Angela, just calm down.]] Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! Minister! We do not want to privatize Polish hospitals, and I say it in full responsibility. That's why I'm also here as a representative of the Kępiński district. There is no debt at the Kępin hospital, but there is an investment programme, which amounts to PLN 6 million. And today I'm worried because I want to prevent the future, not cure it so that it doesn't happen. In the neighboring district we had this state of affairs - in October it was - in which a solution was sought, and one of the ministers said that the local government would find a solution to this difficult financial situation, but unfortunately in December the county hospital was closed there. And this responsibility for the future of Polish hospitals, for Polish patients of local governments, responsible local authorities sitting here today, in the hall, focuses us on this proposal that you withdraw from this solution so that the Polish patient can have access to care [[♪ The bell ♪]] to an equal extent. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u353	Thank you very much. The Minister of Health, Konstanty Radziwiłł, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u354	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I must say that these last two questions about this amendment, which will now be put to the vote, are essentially about something else at all. They are not related to this amendment, because this amendment, I remind you, refers to controls, and those who are in favour of introducing this amendment, do not seem to have read exactly everything or simply cannot read with understanding. And the amendment concerns one single... [[But why would the Minister insult those who ask questions?]] ...things that the Minister of Health, who controls the medical facility, could send not himself, but someone else there. [[Applause]] [[That's ridiculous.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u355	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 194 voted against - 233, 3 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 7th amendment to the article. Article 38 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the draft amending act, the applicants propose that the words "for 2017' be replaced by "for 2018'. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is raised by Marek Hok, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u356	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Amendment 7 concerns Article. 38, which provides that the obligation to issue a regulation or order or to adopt a resolution on the liquidation of an independent public health establishment shall apply for the first time in relation to the net loss resulting from the financial statements for 2017. Our amendment goes in this direction to extend this deadline until 2018. Why? Because we want to give our self-government, mayors, seniors, marshals time to prepare for the liquidation and closure of hospitals. This bill will lead to the closure of Polish hospitals. And the question is: Is it true, Minister, that in 96% Polish basic health care provided by a family doctor is in private hands, and every year more than 140 million advice is given there? Is that true or am I missing the truth? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Eight years.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u357	We'll proceed with the vote. [[Voice from the room: Let the Minister answer.]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 193 votes against - 232, 3 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. And at the moment, you have come forward to ask questions. Mrs Joanna Kopcińska, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u358	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The previous government believed that competition and money were the best recipe for health care organisation, that the health system would regulate itself according to the principles of the free market. Growing queues, growing debt of public facilities... [[Now they're shrinking.]] ...unfavorable medical investments, highly educated medical personnel leaving our country - all this clearly shows... [[Yes? You'll see how they leave now.]] ...that the invisible hand of the market, in which you hoped, failed. She failed. What you are proposing, what you were trying to do, this forced commercialisation, and often privatization, was an attempt to deprive the constitutional power of responsibility for the health safety of Poles. Minister, do the proposed changes restore the real dimension of the existing [[♪ The bell ♪]] constitutional equality of access for all Poles to free... [[And what does that have to do with this amendment?]] ...health services? [[Come on, come on.]] You want to deprive the Poles of this. You divide Poland into Poland A and Poland B. The Constitution...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u359	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u360	...which guarantees Poles a completely different... [[You don't understand.]] ...and we're gonna...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u361	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u362	...normality restored. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u363	Thank you very much. Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u364	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! Yes, it is here in this House that we heard during the exposé that all important issues and legislation will be dealt with with by stakeholders. Prime Minister! Minister! What really happened was that we had to rush so fast that we didn't have time to listen to local corporations, which are the governing bodies, during these two days of the bill. Neither the county or city government, nor the association of voivodships gave a positive opinion. There is no joint committee opinion or position of government and self-government. I do not deny and deny the need to make changes, it forces life and we must move forward, but why do we not respect local governments so much? That's the bill. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We will create a very difficult situation, especially for district governments, because regional governments will manage somehow, but universities may have great difficulties. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u365	There you go. Mr Jacek Protas, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u366	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Until recently, you were proud of the fact that she was a self-government officer, that she knew the problems of the local government and respected its achievements. So why are you at the forefront of a crawling attack on local government in Poland today? Which means we're all in the same place. Without the idea of improving the functioning of the health system in Poland, you are transferring competence and responsibility to the local government. This can lead to financial and organisational collapse, especially in powiats and voivodships. Prime Minister, let me quote you: We will talk, listen and, most importantly, we will hear what the Poles say to us. So why didn't you listen to the public opinion? For all self-government corporations as well [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Joint Council of Government and Local Government issued a negative opinion on the draft of this law...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u367	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u368	...which didn't stop you from doing it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u369	Thank you. Jerzy Kozłowski, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u370	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Art. Article 68 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 the Constitution states that citizens, regardless of their material situation, public authorities provide equal access to public-funded healthcare services. In turn, the Office of Sejm Analysis, in opinion of your project, noted that allowing the possibility for local government units to finance healthcare services can contribute to the fact that the standard of this care will vary nationally and to a large extent depend on the level of income of individual local government units. So BAS has already noticed that your project has such a flaw that it differentiates Poles, sick Poles from those who will be better looked after by the state and those who are worse. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Question for applicants. Why didn't you take the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u371	I'll take that under Thank you. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u372	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! High Izbo! This is a terrible bill. You're demolishing the health system, you're restricting this law's access to health services. You can take down a lot of county hospitals in this way. You're putting a financial burden on local governments. I'm going to address the Minister here, and I hope it makes sense to ask: Where does my health contribution go, government or NFZ? [[Brussels.]] However, you have achieved one success, namely, as a PiS and as a government for the next release of the Guinness Book of Records, because the law on 38 million people has been passed in less than 48 hours. Congratulations! [[Don't lie to me.]] [[Always something.]] I hope you don't correct that record of yours and change our constitution in 24 hours. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Don't give me that.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u373	Minister of Health, Mr Konstanty Radziwiłł.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u374	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Thank you for these questions, reflections, especially about this, I would say most generally. Yes, this bill is not cosmetic and maybe that's why some people find it very difficult to accept it. This is a bill that's supposed to make a difference. It's supposed to change something because it's been bad in the last few years. It was wrong because the constitutional principle, which was mentioned here, was violated, equality in access to public-funded healthcare services. This bill is supposed to bring it back. Ladies and gentlemen, the universality of access is one of the most important features of the modern health system. The World Health Organization stresses and recommends this to all countries. In Poland, this condition is not met. In Poland at the moment, the most important and urgent legacy of previous governments, which we are dealing with when it comes to problems in health care, is access. Queues. [[Which cut short, huh?]] The patients are waiting, waiting, waiting. [[And now they're not waiting?]] And we have the will to change that, and we will change that. [[The queues are getting longer now.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this bill, because it is so difficult that it is so important, it is in consultation - perhaps some have slept through this period - since December last year. [[You don't have time to deal with this.]] Then there were assumptions in the consultation, then the draft law itself, which was in consultation for a month. Many experts spoke on this subject, various organisations, various institutions. The whole process was not 1 day short or 1 minute shorter. Those who didn't notice and saw that there was a project two days ago just slept through that time. [[Voice from the hall: What nonsense are you talking about?]] [[Yes? And where are the local authorities' opinions?]] The state that speaks in the discussion and in the context of questions speaks a lot about local governments, and even has been used such a term: a corporation. Ladies and gentlemen, I happen to know something about this because I was a professional self-government activist. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not corporate business, it's not self-government, whether it's territorial or professional, it's most important. [[16 million.]] The most important is the interest and right of citizens, and in this case above all patients. He's the most important one. [[Why pay corporations?]] And they are the aim of this amendment, their right to access, to decent and safe health care, the real law. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the purpose of this action and we are ordering it. I'm asking you to accept the bill. [[Applause]] [[You'll be ashamed of those words.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u375	Thank you very much. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print no. 604, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. There were 232 votes against and 190 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the law on medicinal activities and certain other laws. We return to the examination of item 25 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the draft law amending the Act on the amendment of the Tax Administration Act and the Act on the amendment of the Tax Ordination Act and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 588-A. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask Mr Sylvester Tulayev to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u376	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour and duty to present an additional report to the Committee on Public Finance submitted in print No 588-A. During the second reading, one amendment was tabled to eliminate doubts about the application of the correct legislative technique. The Committee on Public Finance calls for this amendment to be adopted and the committee asks for the whole law to be adopted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u377	Thank you, sir. We will vote first on the amendment that the Member was talking about. In the amendment, applicants propose a new wording of the draft law. The Commission is asking for this amendment, as we have heard. Its adoption will result in the adoption of the law as proposed by the applicants. Questions. Mr Artur Gierada from the Civic Platform Club raises questions or questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u378	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I'm sure it's a question. Because I have to say it's an important bill, but after today's sitting, I'm wondering... because I see that you really can break the law and prove it even today. But the question to the Prime Minister: Why not let the good law come into force, with the good law expected by the Polish citizen, the one that was introduced in the last term of the Sejm? In the last term of the Sejm - I will remind you - all clubs, including the Law and Justice Club and the President of Jarosław Kaczyński, voted for this. First, the law was to enter in January, but the Law and Justice claimed that the administration system was not prepared for this. Of course, you didn't mean the administration system, but if it had come in since January, you wouldn't be able to fill the administration so easily with your people, because you would have to announce competitions. Today we are actually at the moment when you completely devastated the tax administration. You've got your guys in the IRS and the IRS. Prime Minister, Minister, I have a question: what's holding you back now is another six months. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're prolonging the vacathio legis, the entry into force of this bill? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u379	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. 288 voted against - 124, 3 abstained. The amendment was adopted and the Sejm adopted a law amending the Tax Administration Act. We are returning to the examination of item 27 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on the Registration and Protection of the Names and Designations of Agricultural Products and Foods and on traditional products and on certain other laws. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On the agenda items on the examination of the Senate amendments, we will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate amendments. All amendments were tabled by the Senate to the Article. 1 Amending Act containing amendments to the Act on registration and protection of names and designations of agricultural products and foodstuffs and on traditional products. In Amendment 1. to Article. Point 9 (2) of the Senate proposes that the application for registration be made in paper form and on an IT data medium. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 1st amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 407 Members voted. The absolute majority is 204. The vote against was 407. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 2, to the inserted article. Article 42a (1) (a) (ii) and (iii) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. The 5th Senate proposes a change of vocation. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 411 Members voted. The absolute majority is 206. 410 voted against, 1 member abstained, no one voted in favour. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 3, the following article is added: 58b The Senate proposes among others. the new wording of paragraph. 1. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. The absolute majority is 209. No one voted against - 415, 1 member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 4, the following article is added: 58b The Senate proposes to add paragraph. 5. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is rejecting the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. The absolute majority is 207. The vote was 2 against - 410, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are returning to the examination of item 28 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on Horse Races. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the first amendment to Article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 9 The Senate proposes that resolutions on the appointment and cancellation of the chairman and the application for the cancellation of the President of the Polish Horse Race Club be taken in the presence of at least 7 members of the board. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The question is raised by Mr Szczerba, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u380	High Izbo! Mr. Marshal! Mr. President! Horse racing isn't a rodeo... [[How weak it is.]] [[Oh, my gosh, get to the point.]] ...horse racing isn't riding bulls, horse racing isn't a game for American cowboys. Horse racing is the selection of horse racing, it's testing the bravery of horses, it's finally developing the best breeding material to improve races. What you're doing today is absolute politics for one small institution. I would like the High Chamber to be fully aware that the PiS has prepared a bill to take over one institution: the Polish Horse Race Club consisting of the president and nine employees. The entire legislative process that the High House and the Senate were absorbed was only to politicalise this small organisation, this state legal person. Is it true that such goals were pursued by the PiS? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u381	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 1st amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. The absolute majority is 212. There were 349 votes against - 42, 32 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the second amendment to the article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 12 (2) of the Senate proposes that the words "1/3" of the cost of this journey be replaced by the word "to be." The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The question is asked by Mr Szczerba.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u382	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Question to your marshal: Is it true that you are the author of the term TKM, which was disseminated by President Jarosław Kaczyński?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u383	Mr President, please ask questions in accordance with the procedure.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u384	Is Mr. Marshal aware that this term... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u385	Mr President, I would like to point out to you that you are obstructing the proceedings. [[Hello Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice hits the desktops]] Mr President, I would like to refer you to the matter. [[Voice from the room: What is it, marshal?]] [[Michael, you can talk.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u386	Okay, I can talk. Mr. Marshal, do you have any idea that this term is in Wikipedia?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u387	Mr President, on the basis of the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I call you to order. [[But for what?]] Please address the question to the rapporteur or to the representative of the government. [[Ask the minister.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u388	Does the rapporteur know that Marshal Kuchciński is the author of the term TKM, [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Which is in Wikipedia, which is a graphical example of pathology... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u389	Mr President, I would like to refer you to the matter.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u390	...to which moment do you want to lead in the Polish Horse Racing Club? [[Time's up.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u391	Thank you, sir. I would like to draw Mr Honestly's attention once again to the fact that in this way you are preventing the proceedings from being held. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. The absolute majority is 213. The vote was 386, against 14 and 25 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 The Senate proposes that the term of office of the President should not be combined with that of another employer without the agreement of the Minister responsible for Agriculture. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. The absolute majority is 213. The vote was 381 against - 31, 13 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We return to the examination of item 29 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Economics and Development on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on Export Insurance Guaranteed by the State Treasury and certain other laws. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the first amendment to Article. 5 The Act on Export Insurance Guaranteed by the State Treasury of the Senate proposes a new wording of paragraph. 3a and 3b. This amendment is combined with the 3rd amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The committees are filing for their admission. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 1 and 3, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. The absolute majority is 211. In favour 1, against - 418, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 2, the Senate proposes to delete Article. 3 of the Law amending the Law on Government Administrations. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. The absolute majority is 213. No one voted in favour, against - 423, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The 3rd Act on Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego Senat proposes to clarify the rules for the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board of BGK, i.e. Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 4th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. The absolute majority is 212. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We return to the examination of item 36 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Public Finance on the adoption of the Senate on the Bank Guarantee Fund Act, the deposit guarantee scheme and the compulsory restructuring. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the first amendment to Article. Point 17 of the Senate proposes a different wording for the definition of critical functions. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 1st amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. The absolute majority is 213. 1 Member voted against - 423. The Sejm accepted the amendment. The Senate amendments 2, 7, 11, 13, 16, 17, 24, 25, 28, 32 and 34 to 41 are editorial and legislative. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 2, 7, 11, 13, 16, 17, 24, 25, 28, 32 and 34 to 41, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. The absolute majority is 211. One Member voted against - 418 and two Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the third amendment to the article. 2 point 47 (a) a and b The Senate proposes another way to determine the value of assets of a significant entity. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. The absolute majority is 211. 1 Member voted against - 420. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. 5 The Senate proposes to add paragraph 1. 8. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The question is asked by Mrs Izabel Leszczyn and then Mrs Hennig-Kloska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u392	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! This amendment is a delegation to issue an implementing act to the provision that the Bank Guarantee Fund may acquire claims from the cooperative savings and credit bank at risk of bankruptcy and insolvency. Since yesterday, I have been trying to find out from the Minister whether there is an identical provision in this Act for banks, cooperative Polish banks. The Minister either misled me and lied to me, or he doesn't know the bill, because art. The 112, which you mention, refers to a subject who is in a forced restructuring, and I ask the Minister whether you have the same provision as for aid to the SKOKs in this Act for cooperative banks, or whether you prefer the SKOKs again at the expense of other entities. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm asking for your answer, Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u393	Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u394	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Members of Law and Justice! You have made us, instead of discussing the security of Polish deposits, talk about how much money Poles will spend to save the SKOKs. I was terrified to see a discussion in the Senate, where the PiS-based SKOK lobby requested that under this law the National SKOK Fund should cancel 270 million, which hangs on the Bank Guarantee Fund. It is scandalous that such ideas come to the head of Polish parliamentarians at all. You have the audacity to say in all this that the Modern Club does not represent the interests of Poles. I'm the one asking who the Senators of Law and Justice represent, because they're not Poles. [[Senators.]] Saving the interests of oligarchy is the style of Ukraine in the times of Prime Minister Yanukovych, unworthy of copying. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Answer me the question...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u395	Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u396	...how much money you're willing to spend on saving these financial institutions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u397	But these comparisons are inappropriate, so please don't use them anymore. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 4th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. The absolute majority is 210. 148 voted against - 243, with 28 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. Paragraph 7 1 and 4 The Senate proposes a different composition of representatives on the Board of the Fund and a different number of its members. The amendments of Senate 8 and 42 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. The question is raised by Mr Izabela Leszczyn, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u398	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I understand, Minister, that the absence of an answer is a confirmation that you, as always, are on the side of the SKOKs. In this amendment, Senator Bierecki concluded that representatives of the Polish Bank Association should be excluded from the Banking Council of the Guarantee Fund. He said that the BFG had so much competence that representatives of non-public institutions could not influence its decisions because they could lobby for their interests. The question to the rapporteur in this connection is: Mr Bierecki's party colleagues, first of all, is this amendment so that the Bank Council of the Guarantee Fund sits only on the sidelines of Senator Bierecki? Second question. In whose interest do you think Senator Bierecki lobbied when he was running this bill in the Senate and making amendments to the SKOKs? Please answer me. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u399	Mrs Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, has the floor. [[How much is the franc?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u400	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! As a matter of fact, in all this law, we have a situation in which the institutions most drained by the Bank Guarantee Fund will least allocate money to it. With this amendment, you want to reduce the board of funds about representatives of the Polish Bank Association. Reason? Because they're representatives of private institutions. But these are the representatives of the institutions that allocate 98% to this fund. The contribution is estimated to be such. Does not someone who finances the fund's activities have the right to control whether the funds are legally spent and whether the rules of the game are respected? I think we could leave these representatives behind. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Whose business?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u401	Please. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 5, 8 and 42 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. The absolute majority is 211. The vote was 158 against - 234, with 28 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 6th amendment to the article. Paragraph 7 Point 2 (4) of the Senate proposes that a member of the Board of the Fund may be a person who, among other things, may be a member of the Board of the Fund. has knowledge and professional experience in the functioning of the financial market. This amendment is combined with the 9th amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 6 and 9, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. The absolute majority is 209. In favour 1, against - 414, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. [[Voice from the room: Too fast.]] [[Voice from the room: It doesn't work.]] Something's not working? [[Game in the O.R.]] Slowly read. [[Hurry up and press.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] In the 10th amendment to the article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 and the deletion of the reservation in paragraph 5. 8 The Senate proposes a different scope of application of the Code of Administrative Procedure Act. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 10th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. The absolute majority is 212. 1 Member voted in favour, 422 against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 12th amendment to the article. Article 96 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 The Senate proposes that the provision should concern a significant entity. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 12th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. The absolute majority is 212. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 14th amendment to the article. Article 104 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. From 1 to 3 the Senate proposes a different procedure for dealing with the complaint for the decision to initiate compulsory restructuring. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 14th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. The absolute majority is 211. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 15th amendment to the article. Article 137 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 is replaced by the following: 7 The Senate proposes that a specific estimate may be contested in the action for a decision to apply a compulsory restructuring instrument or a decision to cancel or convert capital instruments. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 15th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. The absolute majority is 213. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 18th amendment to the article. 275 point 3 of the Senate proposes that the amount of the entity's balance sheet in the restructuring at consolidated level should be determined on the basis of the last approved financial statements. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 18th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. The absolute majority is 213. The vote against 423 was not voted in favour, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 19th amendment to the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the implementation of Council Regulation (EC, This amendment is combined with the 22nd amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 19 and 22 will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. The absolute majority is 213. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 20th amendment to the article. Article 4 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 11 The Senate proposes a different wording of the introduction into the calculation. This amendment is linked to the 21st amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 20 and 21 will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. The absolute majority is 211. 420 voted against, no one voted in favour, 1 member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 23rd amendment to the article. Article 4 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 7 The Senate proposes that specific information be made available by electronic means or in writing if requested by the qualified entity concerned. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 23rd amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. The absolute majority is 210. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Amendments 26, 27 and 29. The Senate proposes a different wording of the provisions on the imposition of fines by decision. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 26, 27 and 29 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. The absolute majority is 211. 1 Member voted in favour, against 420. The Sejm accepted the amendments. Amendments 30 and 31. The Senate reported it to the article. 351 containing amendments to the Act on the functioning of cooperative banks, their association and the association banks. In the 30th amendment to the article. Point 2 of the Senate proposes a new wording for the definition of an association bank. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 30th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. The absolute majority is 210. No one voted in favour, against 393, abstained from 25. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 31st amendment to Article. 22d paragraph. 2 The Senate proposes a different scope of rules on the operation of management units. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 31st amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. The absolute majority is 213. The vote was 153, against - 243, with 28 Members holding back. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 33rd amendment to the article. 110zk lip. 11 point 5 of the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments The Senate proposes that the provision refers to a risk management system at a brokerage house referred to in Article. 110b. 1. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 33rd amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. The absolute majority is 212. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 43rd amendment, the Senate proposes to add an article. 376a. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 43rd amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. The absolute majority is 211. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 44th Amendment, the Senate proposes to add an article. 380a. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The question is raised by Izabela Leszczyn, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u402	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! In the years 2005-2007 you created a bandit law that allowed the SKOKs to deceive thousands of Poles... [[How do you speak?]] [[♪ The bell ♪]] ...and get 5 billion zlotys out of the taxpayer's pocket [[Applause]] - for now, because unfortunately there will be more. [[Don't lie to me!]] Unfortunately, in 2010 President Lech Kaczyński signed up for this bad action. In 2016, you continue this vile activity. [[How do you speak?]] Mr Sasin, when you paraphrase your words, you can say yes: neither do you... [[Watch your mouth.]] ...you've come out of the SKOKs or the SKOKs haven't come out of you. And it's so sad. [[Applause]] [[She's learned.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u403	The question is asked by Mr Jacek Sasin, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u404	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to ask you a question. During the last 8 years of the rule of the Civic Platform and PSL, was this the law that you created allowed to screw margins into banks that hit Poles who wanted to take loans? Did you allow Poles to indebt in Swiss francs? [[Applause]] ... [[Yes, sir.]] ...and today Polish families bear the consequences of this law that you created during your governments? [[Who encouraged you?]] And finally, one more question. Isn't it under the supervision of the State, not under the supervision of an institution such as KNF, where you pointed out a candidate for the head of this institution, under the supervision of the KNF, precisely such irregularities have occurred, which result in huge losses to the state budget? To the scandal in Wołomin's SKOK, where the money was taken under KNF's watch, [[Applause]] who didn't react... [[Yes, sir.]] ...in spite of the indications of the National Bank, which indicated that there was a robbery going on there. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Institutions of the State and controlled States [[♪ The bell ♪]] They didn't react to it. The same was also true in SK Bank, which generated... [[Don't lie to me, okay?]] ...other losses... [[Luxembourg, look.]] ...where you didn't react either. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] for signals that there are irregularities. Bandit law and criminal law enforcement took place during the reign of the Platform and the PSL. [[Applause, bustle in the hall]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u405	As corrected by Mr Isabel Leszczyn. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u406	Thank you, Marshal. Well, Mr Sasin, first of all, the Financial Supervision Commission - I mentioned this, but I wanted to be delicate - that's why she couldn't supervise the SKOKs, because President Lech Kaczyński sent this law to the Constitutional Court, which delayed the financial supervision. [[There was a bill, and it didn't react either. That's not true.]] That's one thing. [[Applause]] Secondly, the moment KNF could oversee the SKOKs, what were the SKOKs doing? They filed false accounts and hired counterfeit auditors. That is secondly, Mr Sasin. [[Applause]] [[You're overreacting.]] And thirdly, if you claim that someone is guilty of the fact that the Poles are in debt in francs, remember: this is the government of law and justice. [[Don't lie to me.]] I'm explaining to you why.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u407	But, Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u408	It's...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u409	You're going beyond the scope of correction. [[Yes, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u410	No, no, Mr. Marshal. The Member accused us that the Poles had taken Frank's loans because of us, so I want to explain. And I'm not gonna go back to the fact that it was your government that talked me out of it. Poles to take loans in francs. That's not what I'm talking about. [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u411	Madam, you are going beyond the scope of the correction. [[Voices from the hall: Yes, yes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u412	I am talking, Mr MiFID, about implementing the MiFID directive...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u413	Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u414	...which places on banks...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u415	That's not a correction. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Don't disturb me.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u416	Mr. Marshal, I'm gonna say this really in 20 seconds, but don't bother me. [[But you're talking and you're talking crazy.]] The directive, which could have prevented the dramas of today's franchise, should have been implemented in October 2007. Who ruled in 2006 and 2007? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Who was to implement this bill? [[Applause]] [[It's a short memory.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u417	In order, a formal proposal - Mr Marcin Święcicki, then Mr Jarosław Kaczyński. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u418	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to request an adjournment so that Mr Sasin can read the report of the subcommittee on the functioning of the SKOKs Act, which is the report of this subcommittee adopted by this High Chamber and in which this report is explained, Mr Sasin, that the Financial Supervision Committee has taken over these responsibilities and has done its utmost to stop the collapse of the SKOKs. She took over in a state where most SKOKs had a deficit, when against 40 SKOKs at 52... [[We're talking about a specific SKOK.]] ...it was necessary to organize repair programs. And it was the Financial Supervision Commission that introduced the resolution programmes, introduced the Commissioners, suspended the competences of the people you approved, and you did not apply for it. All those losses... [[What do you mean, you're out?]] Yes, it was the action of the PiS, Mr PiS, the action of the PiS, blocking the introduction of the supervision of the Financial Supervision Commission over the SKOKs. [[Applause]] And that's where those losses came from. [[Give me $5 billion.]] Due to the incompetence of the previous National Casino and the conduct of SKOKs outside external supervision. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u419	Thank you. With a formal proposal from Mr Jarosław Kaczyński. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[It's supposed to be quiet now.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u420	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I, with a similar proposal as the one Mr Święcicki just presented. Indeed, it is worth calling - and this is my request - the Senior Convention, to clarify certain facts, and in particular... [[The Commission of Investigation on the JCCs.]] ...that these huge losses that you're still talking about here were created in one SKOK... [[Voices from the hall: No!]] ...that is, in the SCOC of Volomin, [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] And that's when he was already under full supervision from the KNF. [[No, I'm afraid not.]] I know... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]] You can scream, [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] But these are facts. [[That's just not the facts.]] And KNF on all kinds of... [[Voice from the room: Don't lie.]] ...remarks... [[Lying, that's not true.]] ...and the demands of the National Bank didn't respond. That's one thing. Secondly, regarding the request of my sleep. Brother, and so much that you said about him after he died, that you could stop it, because you really embarrassed yourselves terribly, you showed that you were outside Polish culture, [[Touchdown, applause]] It has been largely taken into account by the Constitutional Tribunal. [[Voice from the room: Formal conclusion...]] [[He insults us all the time, Marshal.]] So this is one thing. And finally, ladies and gentlemen, this is a term that you use here all the time. I understand that you are not able to understand that someone is defending some institution - and there were indeed moments in which we defended the SKOKs - not because they have business there, but in the name of a wider business. [[The joy, the chatter in the hall]] It's beyond your thinking. [[You're lying. You're lying all the time.]] You guys think in a way... [[Applause, bustle in the hall]] [[Who's we?]] You think. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] in a manner [[♪ The bell ♪]] short. There's no rake like that. That's where you come from, and that's who you are. [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice rise, applause]] [[Bravo!]] [[It's a vote against.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u421	The vote against Mr Grzegorz Schetyna.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u422	Mr. President Kaczyński! This is the day of your disgrace and disgrace to your party! Today! You've been compromised twice! [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice hit desktops]] You're the father of the Surveillance Act, the anti-terrorist Surveillance Act. You're gonna pay politically for this! You're gonna pay for this! With Mr Wójcik, with Minister Wójcik. [[Look over there.]] [[Sit down. Calm down.]] You and Mr Wójcik will be asking... [[Show your finger over there.]] ...that's to... [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice chant: Get off the speaker! Get off the podium!]] ... You will ask President Duda to pardon you for what you did before! [[Applause]] Today is not enough! Because SKOK is your disgrace and shame! He's a disgrace, a shame, and a fraud, and you're gonna pay for it, and you're gonna pay for it, Mr. Kaczyński! [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Civic Platform rise, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u423	Formal proposal, Mr Joachim Brudziński.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u424	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to... [[And in what mode?]] ...to request a formal recess. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] and convene the Senior Convention to make President Schetyna aware that his desperate fight for leadership in the Civic Platform during the Senior Convention meeting [[Applause]] with you... [[Yes, sir.]] ...premier Eve Kick and this rehearsal... [[Sit down.]] ...using the Seym's speaker to build up for the sake of a fractal struggle is unworthy... [[Don't worry about it.]] ...the opposition party leader. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] [[Neumann, help Schetina.]] [[It's a vote against.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u425	Mr Sławomir Neumann, vote against. Please. [[Which side, Kicker or Schetina?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u426	Marshal Brudziński, with a voice contrary to your request. You're damn right... [[Don't stand in the middle, tell me.]] ...Mrs. Marshal, the Platform elections are over, the elections are in the PiS, you don't have to suck up to the president. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Donald's revenge will be sweet.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u427	Paulin Hennig-Kloska asks a question. Member, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u428	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I see you can't normally close your session on Friday. Once again, you bring the debate to the bottom of this parliament. To cover what? This time what we're saying about SKOKs? [[Who was on the gas last night?]] The Commission's previous opinion? And all so that the Poles couldn't understand at the end of the day? I was gonna ask you a question about the amendment, but you can't. You're talking about the franchise today. Who wrote letters to KNF in 2006, suggesting that loans in francs are safe, good for Poles and should not be limited? [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice chant: Petru! Petru! Petru!]] No, ladies and gentlemen, you're out of luck. [[Who traded the loan?]] Do you think you'll scream at the Poles? I mean, all those letters and correspondence. [[♪ The bell ♪]] are available and Poles can check it out. [[Rysiu's out of business.]] I know you have the most paid haters...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u429	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u430	...and you can do the most on the Internet, but Poles... [[The Marshal turns off the microphone, the fun in the room, the applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u431	Thank you, Member. The question is asked by Mr Blazej Parda, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u432	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You're fighting like lions, you're gorgeously muddy, but this has practically nothing to do with the subject. I think we could sit here till tonight. [[Applause]] And we'd be... [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] ...a wonderful performance, a circus on wheels. Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment concerns a three-month delay in the entry into force of this Act for the SKOKs, which, of course, raises some suspicions... [[Yeah, why?]] [[Why?]] ...that it's not equal, we treat SKOKs differently. Therefore, we will not support this amendment, because above all, we must respect all financial institutions equally, whether they are SKOKs promoted by one party or banks by another. Let's make it even, fair. Yeah, let's treat it that way. Let's treat the citizens anyway. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u433	Thank you. Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 44th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 411 Members voted. The absolute majority is 206. 184 voted against - 226 and 1 member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We would like to refer to item 37 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the adoption of the Senate on the Posting of Workers Act in the framework of the provision of services. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the first amendment to Article. 3 point (4) (a) b and point 5 (a) b The Senate proposes to amend the definition. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 1st amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 414 Members voted. The absolute majority is 208. No one voted in favour, against 413 and 1 member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 8, Art. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 2, Article 4 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4, Article Paragraph 24 6, Art. Article 27 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point 2 and Article. 40 The Senate proposes to amend its referral. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 407 Members voted. The absolute majority is 204. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. The 10th Senate proposes editorial and legislative changes. Amendment 5 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 3 and 5 will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 402 Members voted. The absolute majority is 202. One Member voted in favour, 401 voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and 4 The Senate proposes legislative and editorial change. Amendment 7 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 4 and 7, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 398 Members voted. The absolute majority is 200. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 6th amendment to the article. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 3 (1) of the Senate proposes an editorial and legislative amendment. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The question is raised by Mrs Scheuring-Wielgus. [[Voice from the room: Come on!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u434	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is the end of today. That's all I'm gonna tell you... [[The voice from the hall: Mother of God!]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha.]] ... Poles are fed up with disputes between PiS and PO. [[Discovery.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u435	Member, we are in the middle of a vote on...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u436	Shame on you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u437	... 6th Amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u438	Shame on you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u439	Please...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u440	I think Richard Petru was touched by your applause.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u441	Ask the question to the sixth amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u442	Shame on you, shame on you. [[Where's the marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u443	I'm picking up your voice. [[Voice from the room: Declarations later.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 6th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 393 Members voted. The absolute majority is 197. 1 Member voted against - 392. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the examination of item 31 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (Print No 601). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Senior Convention, [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] has submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Parliamentary Boards. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak on the proposals put forward? No one's checking in. No, I don't have to close the discussion. [[Joy in the Chamber]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print No 601, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 388 Members voted. The vote was 378, against - 1 and 9 Members abstained. The Sejm adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. We proceed with the examination of item 32 of the agenda: Information to the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber on the results of the control against the placing on the market of invoices documenting fictitious activities. The President of the Supreme Chamber of Control is. [[Wait a minute?]] Mr. President, let's wait a minute. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] I ask you, Mr Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, President of the Supreme Audit Chamber, to present the information.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u444	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The issue of collecting tax revenue and the effectiveness of the authorities responsible for this area of public finance is of particular interest to the Supreme Audit Chamber. As I reach only 3 years back, let me recall the most important documents, evaluations and conclusions put forward by the House. Thus, in the analysis of the implementation of the state budget and monetary policy assumptions, both in 2013 and 2014 we presented a systemic proposal for a reform of the tax system in order to simplify and resist tax fraud. This was, of course, included in the budget implementation analysis. In the first half of 2014, we submitted information about the fight against fraud in the tax on goods and services. In its assessment both in 2012 and 2013 the tax authorities and the tax authorities did not adequately counter VAT fraud. The scale of fraud increased, increased, found in the course of the checks, the amounts of tax losses, and the level of recovery of amounts from dimensional decisions was low. NIK concluded that lower VAT revenues in 2013 compared to 2011 by PLN 7.4 billion were due to the increase in tax fraud. What did we ask for in the course of this inspection? To speed up the introduction of solutions to combat VAT fraud, including solutions based on a single control file. The real implementation of this solution will formally start on 1 July this year. The relevant legislative provisions were still adopted during the previous parliamentary term. We also requested faster acquisition and processing of data using IT techniques when planning and conducting controls, as well as improved efficiency in recovering amounts due in subsequent control decisions. In the first half of 2015, we submitted information about the supervision of tax authorities and tax control authorities on the regularity of the accounts with the budget of the state of entities with a share of foreign capital. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In the opinion of the Chambers, the audited tax authorities and tax offices did not carry out sufficient and effective measures to prevent tax evasion by entities with foreign capital through the transfer of income outside the Polish tax system. The House has requested the implementation of solutions to prevent the reduction of the income tax base consistent with the recommendations developed within the European Union and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, OECD, and to prepare subordinate bodies for the audit of international entities. The House also pointed out that in the Polish tax system there has been no general clause against tax avoidance for 10 years. In early 2015, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) NIK has submitted information on enforcement of the law against undertakings active in the field of betting. This audit was carried out on your behalf, on behalf of the Sejm Committee on Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism. The audit covered the period from 2010 to 2014. The key findings of this inspection are that the Customs authorities were not able to prevent the illegal establishment and advertising of betting via the Internet, when the premises of the operators of illegal betting sites and servers used to organize these establishments were located outside Poland. The House pointed out that there was a continuing shadow economy in the area under investigation and the need to implement legal instruments that would reduce illegal activities via the Internet. And now this most important audit, in a special way today we are looking at the conclusions of this audit, namely the control on the prevention of the placing on the market of invoices documenting fictitious activities. Today I have the opportunity to provide you with information about the results of this audit - the audit carried out in the 4th quarter of 2015 in the Ministry of Finance, five selected tax control offices and six selected tax offices. Control activities were completed in the framework of this audit in December last year. This report was submitted to the President, the Marshals of the Sejm and the Senate, of course the Committee on Public Finance, the Committee on State Control, the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance and other state bodies. Where did she even come up with the idea of this control, and what was its genesis? The choice of this topic was the result of an analysis of the risks threatening the financial stability of the State by obtaining lower than the VAT revenue due. The results of previous audits, including those of the last years I have told you, and the warnings contained in the analysis of the implementation of the state budget, also indicated the appropriateness of taking the control concerning the so-called. fictional invoices. The College of the House approved this subject on 29 October 2014, including it in its 2015 work plan. And now what's most important, that is, the substantive conclusions and the objective assessment of the controlled area. The Supreme Audit Chamber has negatively assessed the effectiveness, I stress, the effectiveness, because we have not assessed the willingness, actions or lack of them, we have assessed the effects of these actions, namely their effectiveness, as the name of the audit itself indicates, whether we have tackled tax fraud sufficiently effectively. In this respect, in terms of effectiveness, i.e. the consequences of individual actions, the House assessed the activities of the Ministry of Finance and its subordinate bodies in countering the economic marketing of invoices documenting fictional activities in 2014 and in the first half of 2015 - because this was the period under review. What is the scale of the problem and why such an assessment of the Supreme Audit Chamber? In an area controlled by NIK, i.e. the placing on the market of invoices not reflecting economic events, the tax authorities detected in 2015 360 700 such invoices for a total amount of PLN 81 900 million. The average amount of one fictional transaction was around 230 000. zł. In 2014, the tax authorities detected 207 thousand. such invoices, then for the amount of PLN 33 700 million, with an average amount from one invoice of 163 thousand. zł, and in 2013 - I am also showing this to you, so that we can see a trend in this area - tax control offices detected 154 thousand. such invoices for the amount of PLN 19 700 million. At that time, the average amount of one contested invoice was 127 thousand. zł. In conclusion, in 2015 we have 360 thousand. invoices contested, one year earlier - 207 thousand and two years earlier - 154 thousand. In saying this, I show you that from year to year the number of fictional invoices detected by the tax authorities is increasing. To make sure there is no doubt, our assessment in this respect, from where this growth comes from, is two-component. Surely, there is no doubt about it, this increase is among others. as a result of focusing the activities of the tax authorities, as recommended by the Minister of Finance, on combating irregularities in the tax on goods and services, including in areas where fraud has taken on a significant scale, i.e. in the fuel and electronic industries. As a result of the disclosure of more fictitious invoices, the tax control authorities measured more and more amounts of tax to be paid each year. Thus, in 2015 the tax to be paid on detected fictitious invoices, i.e. so-called. the tax levied on the basis of Article. 108 of the act on the tax on goods and services, amounted to PLN 12 billion. In 2014, it was PLN 5200 million and in 2013 it was PLN 2300 million. A total of 3 years was applied on the basis of Article. 108 Act on the tax on goods and services in total PLN 19 500 million tax due to fictitious invoices. However, and this information is extremely important - the obligation to pay those amounts measured by the tax authorities paid to the State's cashier, i.e. in practice only PLN 160 million was enforced from them in 2015, in 2014 - PLN 60 300 000. PLN, in 2013 - 65 600 thousand zł. And, of course, we see a greater activity of tax authorities both detecting fictitious invoices and increasing debt recovery, but we have to remember the scale -- the scale of irregularities in relation to the scale of the financial resources that can be recovered from the interest of the State Treasury. Of course, there is also a question of why fictitious invoices are issued. We are dealing with at least three basic motives for those who resort to issuing fictional invoices. Firstly, this objective is to extort VAT reimbursement, secondly, to avoid paying this tax, and thirdly, to overcharge revenue costs, to underwrite income taxable profits, both CIT and PIT, depending on the status of the operator. I would like to present to you a little more detailed recitals on the assessment we have made in this respect for the effectiveness of the tax authorities. I have already said that the House has assessed negatively in this respect the actions of the Minister of Finance and its subordinate authorities in combating tax fraud by placing on the market invoices documenting fictitious activities in order to extort VAT because we have assessed the effectiveness of their actions. And we've measured that effectiveness with these criteria. Firstly, system solutions were insufficient to effectively combat tax fraud related to the use of fictional invoices. Secondly, the Minister of Finance has not proposed sufficient regulations and mechanisms to seal the current system in the next modification of tax law. Thirdly, the actions of the tax authorities, albeit reliable and accurate in detecting fraud, were ineffective and late, as they often did not identify actual tax fraud organisers and did not enforce effectively measured taxes. Fourthly, there are little possibilities to recover the amounts of tax measured from fictitious invoices. These amounts, we are talking about amounts recovered, reach 1.3% the amounts to be measured. That is, from the amounts which the tax authorities manage to measure as those due to the Treasury on the basis of fictional invoices, the amounts that we recover are 1.3 amounts measured, which is the consequence, in our view, of ineffective execution following the lack of any assets of persons and companies used for these frauds and the difficulty of establishing the actual organisers. This, of course, is also something that we remember about the difficulties involved. I'll get back to that. Fifthly, there has been a sharp increase in arrears as a consequence, on the one hand, of the increase in the value of the fake invoices found, as I mentioned, as a consequence of the more targeted activities of the tax services and, on the other hand, of the low efficiency of the recovery of the amounts measured. arrears, according to the Ministry of Finance data, only for amounts measured pursuant to Article. 108 Goods and Services Tax Act over 1.5 years, from the end of 2013 to the middle of 2015, almost tripled, from about PLN 5 billion to over PLN 14 billion. At the end of 2015, the tax arrears applied pursuant to Article. 108 Act on the tax on goods and services already amounted to PLN 21 900 million. I'll remind you, Art. 108 of the Act on VAT on goods and services provides that, where a legal person, a non-legal organisational entity or a natural person has issued an invoice showing the amount of the tax, he is, of course, obliged to pay it. This was directly translated into an increase in the total arrears recorded by the tax authorities. At the end of 2015, the total backlog on goods and services tax amounted to PLN 42 600 million and - interestingly enough - was equal to the deficit of the state budget, which for the whole year 2015 amounted to PLN 42 600 million. Sixth, in the audit procedures conducted by the tax authorities as a result of joint action by the directors of the tax control offices, the prosecutor's office and other institutions examined by the NIK, e.g. Central Bureau of Investigation, Internal Security Agency, in 28 out of 90 cases, fraud organisers were detected. Why am I talking about this? When there is close cooperation between tax authorities also with public institutions such as special services, this percentage increases significantly - detected fraud organisers, and not only those who were pillars in this operation. As a result, 90 audit procedures examined - these are the procedures for which we have carried out a very detailed analysis - were found to amount to a total of 1,914 600 000. zł, of which 46 100 thousand were executed by NIK by the end of the inspection. zł, which in the sample that we examined exactly represented 2.4 amounts charged. Payments in relation to the findings remained low, as entities - and this is de In fact, synthesis, which we are faced with in the case of fictional invoices - participating in this process were planned for a short period of time in order to issue fictional invoices rather than to carry out business activities. They were involved in a number of fraudulent procedures, not equipped with tangible assets, with which there was usually no contact at the stage of the review procedure. In order to establish the facts, it was necessary to carry out checks in several entities and to assess the whole of the evidence collected. Very important information. What was the passage of time since the information on possible irregularities to be carried out? The average period from taking information indicating a high risk of the entity's involvement in tax fraud to the initiation of a review procedure was 73 days in the case of ad hoc checks. This period covers 57% We're investigating cases. In the case of scheduled controls, this was a period of 189 days. They were 43%. in a detailed test by us. In one case, the control procedure - I immediately say that we are talking, of course, about an extreme case - was initiated 350 days after receiving information from the inspector general about the risk of significant irregularities. In the opinion of the House in entities suspected of serious tax fraud, control procedures should be initiated immediately in order to reduce the response time of tax authorities in such cases. So we believe that the days that we have given you, from the moment of the information on possible irregularities to the actual checks, are too long if we want to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of the tax authorities. Seventhly and lastly, the phenomenon of placing fictional invoices on the economic market despite the efforts of tax authorities and tax authorities still exists on a significant scale and public finances are not supplied with VAT revenues corresponding to the size of economic turnover. In order for us to have no doubts, the problem with fictional invoices is a problem that exists in all countries where we are dealing with the construction of VAT. What Poland looks like in the context of the so-called. the tax gap, especially against the background of other countries of the European Union, I will present to you in a moment on the basis of the data of the European Commission. In conclusion, I would like to stress that the Minister of Finance has taken a number of actions and initiatives to improve the effectiveness of its subordinate services in combating fraud on goods and services, including reducing VAT fraud and avoiding payment of tax obligations. However, these efforts have not been successful. Indeed, it has not been possible to increase the effectiveness of the fight against criminal groups using tax mechanisms to extort tax on goods and services, groups undertaking fictional measures aimed at reducing tax duties. The frauds were mostly detected with delay when the cheaters disappeared. Sometimes there are people who have been set up to act as so-called. poles, of course, in most cases people who do not have any assets. There have been difficulties in identifying the perpetrators of fraud, as well as the recovery of the amounts of taxes measured by the tax authorities. Between 2013 and 2015 there was a large-scale phenomenon of the placing on the market of invoices documenting fictitious activities constituting a serious threat to the revenue of the State budget. Now we're moving on to the level of tax collection. Unfortunately, there has been a deterioration in the efficiency of tax authorities in tax collection as measured by the increase in arrears. The fact that the revenue from the tax on goods and services, which is the main source of revenue for the state budget, has been and continues to be seriously threatened in recent years, shows that the tax revenue generated by the state budget has been reduced to the gross domestic product size. Between 2013 and 2015 the tax-to-GDP ratio was below 15% . In 2008, for example, the ratio was 17%. This decrease was mostly due in our assessment to the decreasing ratio of revenue from goods and services tax to the level of GDP. The so-called sizes were significant. the tax gap. The size of the goods and services tax gap remained higher than the average size of this phenomenon in the European Union countries. I am aware that we are entering an area of methodology, which is always a debatable area. That is why I will use the European Commission's reports in this area, assuming that this methodology is a methodology comparable to that of all the European Union countries and thus the least debatable and most credible. According to the European Commission's reports, the VAT gap in Poland increased from 18% to 27% between 2010 and 2013. VAT revenue which can be achieved. In the years to come, this phenomenon has not been significantly reduced. According to the May 2015 report, drawn up on behalf of the European Commission, the VAT gap, as I said, in Poland, was exactly 26.7%. And for different countries, we can say... In those where the tax collection system raises serious doubts, i.e. in Italy, this is 33%. For a change, there are countries that claim to be those whose tax administration works well. In Finland it is 4.1% , in Sweden - 4,3%, in Germany - 11%. In countries comparable to Poland, i.e. in the countries of Central Europe, this was: in Hungary - 24% , and in Romania, 40%. A persistent tax gap - I would remind you that the average, which is counted for all European Union countries, is lower than the level of this gap in Poland - in large sizes, demonstrates in our assessment of the insufficient efficiency of the Polish tax system and the need for new solutions to reduce tax fraud. I'm probably approaching the most important part of my speech, which is the most interesting part of your recommendation. What can and what should be done with regard to tax law in order to improve the efficiency of the tax administration? Because, of course, the vast majority of these actions require legislative action. For a long time they have been raised by various expert groups, including, of course, the Ministry of Finance, the opinions that existing solutions are tools with limited efficiency in the fight against fraud or are not effective at all. Further solutions are needed to reduce the scale of negative phenomena that allow effective response to threats and to effectively punish the perpetrators of these frauds. There is a common need - that is why I am talking about it here, because these conclusions are every time - with the conclusions resulting from the analysis of the Supreme Audit Chamber. In recent years, as you know, we have carried out several checks, and if you take a longer time, there are dozens, concerning various elements of the operation of the Polish tax system and the tax administration. Thus, the Supreme Audit Chamber recommends and sees the need to consider introducing such solutions as: the obligation to issue VAT invoices via the server of the Ministry of Finance, so-called. central register of invoices, public register of bank accounts of taxable persons, limitation of the possibility to settle quarterly VAT, addition of further conditions for the deletion of a taxable person from the VAT register, optional split payment - shared payment - or the possibility of using a split payment solution as a condition exempting from joint and several liability, extending the responsibilities of joint and several liability in such a way that it will always apply when making payments for transactions to an account other than those shown in the database on-line taxable persons as an account competent to settle VAT and reduce cash payments. Please bear in mind that the House does not say that all these solutions need to be implemented. However, there is no doubt that using even some of them is an opportunity to improve the efficiency of the tax system. In order to provide you with a full picture of the situation, I must also remind you that legislative initiatives have been taken in recent years to improve the efficiency of the tax system, and I must remind you of these initiatives, as far as justice is concerned. As of 1 October 2013 and 1 July 2015, the reverse charge mechanism for trading certain goods was extended and introduced and subsequently extended to the buyer's tax liability institution for the seller's VAT obligations. The sealing mechanisms proposed by the Minister of Finance were aimed at areas of economic activity where significant irregularities were identified, but did not allow for a systematic reduction of fraud, independent of the goods used in criminal activities. The Law of 10 September 2015 was introduced so-called. a single control file, i.e. the obligation for the taxable person to forward part or all of the tax accounts in a fixed format and a uniform structure at the request of the tax authority. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member From the middle of this year, this obligation will cover the so-called. large enterprises within the meaning of the Freedom of Business Act. The aim of the amendment is to strengthen the efficiency of verification of tax books and accounting evidence and thus to improve the detection of fraud, particularly in VAT. The Supreme Chamber of Control presents the view that the existing legal regulations and actions have proved insufficient and do not allow effective protection of the interests of the State Treasury. The Minister of Finance should conduct a thorough analysis of the solutions proposed by the expert gremia, the finance department specialists, the mechanisms used in other countries and take immediate decisions which solutions can be put in place to effectively counter VAT fraud. Only comprehensive solutions will significantly improve the reduction of losses resulting from fraud on goods and services. New measures are needed to improve the collection and enforcement of taxes, changes in the organisation of services combating the most serious tax fraud, as well as changes at criminal level to ensure that tax fraud perpetrators can be punished in real terms. Consideration should be given to the separation of the vertical or department specialised in combating large-scale tax fraud using fictitious invoices, a service equipped with control procedures, powers corresponding to the seriousness of the crimes committed by organised groups. As a result of the audit I am talking about, we have referred the following conclusions to the Finance Minister: firstly, to the rapid implementation of solutions to improve the effectiveness in combating tax fraud committed using invoices documenting fictional activities, secondly, to increasing the cooperation of tax control authorities with the General Financial Information Inspector, thirdly, to intensify cooperation between the services subordinate to the Finance Minister and the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Police, fourthly, to speed up the collection and processing of data in the planning of checks in order to accelerate the response to identified threats, fifthly, to focus the activities of the subordinate services on the detection of tax fraud organisers instead of the companies of posts, sixthly, to effectively enforce from the directors of the tax control offices without delay informing the heads of the tax authorities of the grounds justifying the removal of frauds from the VAT register, and from the heads of the tax authorities - the deletion of entities pursuant to Article. Article 96 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 9 and Article 9 Paragraph 97. 15 Act on VAT on goods and services from the Register of Active VAT and VAT of the European Union, and on the seventh, on improving the effectiveness of recovery of amounts due in control decisions. The House's assessment also recommends the development and successful implementation of a strategy for sealing the tax system. The Minister of Finance adopted the conclusions of the Supreme Audit Chamber and informed about the measures taken to seal the VAT system, in particular in the legal, organisational and IT areas. It is for us as the House which carried out this audit, a source of great satisfaction that the Minister of Finance did not question in principle any of our recommendations and, of course, accepting these conclusions, said that he would gradually try to implement various solutions recommended by the Supreme Audit Chamber. The projects implemented in the first months of 2016 show that measures are in place to seal the system of value added tax. Here I will remind you of those actions that come into force in the near future. Firstly, to develop and make available to entrepreneurs a logical structure in the form of electronic tax books and accounting evidence, so as to effectively and effectively use a single control file from 1 July to tax controls on large enterprises. A reduction of 15,000. Euros up to 15 000 zł limit of cash transactions between traders. The Act has already been published in the Official Journal, it enters into force on 1 January 2017. This, of course, is thanks to you as a parliament. The proposed amendments to the VAT Act, which include the obligation for certain taxable persons to submit a VAT return by electronic means only, the obligation to submit summary information by electronic means only, the modification of the current arrangements for joint and several liability and the guarantee deposit in the trading of fuels in order to improve the effectiveness of these instruments and by clarifying the rules for registration and deletion of VAT taxable persons. Very important information. For these four solutions, these proposals are expected to enter into force from 1 July 2016. Work is underway to consolidate the services subordinate to the Finance Minister by drawing up a law on the national tax administration. As far as I know, a parliamentary project is being announced in this area in the near future. Work is underway on the creation of a special purpose vehicle for the implementation of IT projects. The Act was published in the Official Journal of the Laws and will enter into force on 11 June this year. The main objective is to develop IT solutions for the introduction of new IT tools, including the development of a VAT invoice register. Also the measures taken in the first months of this year in the area of income taxes and so-called. tax optimisation coincides with the conclusions of NIK's information on the results of the audit of tax authorities and tax authorities on the regularity of the accounts with the budget of the State of entities with foreign capital submitted in 2015. What do I mean? Changes in the Tax Order introducing a tax avoidance clause. The bill was signed by the President on 7 June. I think we're still waiting for her to be published. Changes in PIT and CIT laws sealing the income tax system - this document is at the stage of government work. The assumptions of the government draft law on amending the Act on gambling and other laws, presented on 24 May this year, are also part of the implementation of the House's proposal in the information on enforcement of laws against betting entities. In February 2015, we had a legal analysis carried out by the Minister of Finance to determine whether and to what extent it is possible to implement further legal instruments that would reduce the illegal activities of cross-border operators through the Internet, and, as you know, now intensive work is underway to introduce solutions in this area, especially bearing in mind that the vast majority, I speak euphemistically, of the mutual bets that take place on the Internet, are of course on servers run by companies that are registered outside the Polish tax system. What are the consequences for the Polish tax system, of course, I do not have to say. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In the mid-1990s, the creators of VAT laid the foundation for this solution to today's tax, because of course, it has evolved significantly over the years, based on the assumptions of fair trade, the neutrality of this tribute for entrepreneurs, the key source due to its universality and revenue for public finances. Unfortunately, today, in the era of globalism, the free movement of capital, goods, services, electronicisation of transactions, counting and deduction mechanisms is used in an absolute way to avoid VAT payments, to extort VAT, to distort free competition. VAT fraud occurs everywhere, which I will repeat once again, but in different countries with different intensity. Today's debate undoubtedly shows that the intention of the legislator, the intention of the Polish Sejm, is to take such actions, which will lead to the fact that the intensity of these frauds in Poland will be less in relation to other countries. Individual countries take various legal, organisational and use different instruments to reduce pathology in the area of goods and services tax. It is also high time in our country to step up and not wait for this system to recover at EU level, because this discussion has been going on for a long time, although the signals that come to us from Brussels are clear and decisive in this regard. VAT fraud must be strongly resisted - said both Valdis Dombrovskis, Vice-President of the European Commission and Pierre Moscovici, Commissioner for Economic Affairs and Taxation. Both emphasize the change in the rules for VAT collection in cross-border transactions, and this is crucial, i.e. the Polish trader supplying goods to Germany will have to pay VAT in Poland, there will be no zero rate in this regard, but the rates in force in Germany. The settlements will take place between the tax authorities of Poland and Germany. This way, we have no doubt, we look at these declarations and actions with hope, it can significantly shorten the tax carousel. Other changes are also designed, e.g. as regards the entitlement of countries to reduced or zero VAT rates. In this respect, of course, the discussion is difficult, because of course it is entering a certain level of national legislation, but we also have no doubt that a reduction in zero VAT rates, if it is a common process on identical principles in all European Union countries, may result in a reduction in the scale of such fraud. The new approach seems beneficial from the point of view of Poland and its VAT revenues. The new solutions will, of course, come into force when all the countries of the European Union agree. Specific solutions are envisaged - and these are the declarations of the representatives of the European Commission - for 2017. As far as implementation is concerned, for now it is too early to talk about a specific deadline, we hope as soon as possible. We therefore need to clean up our national VAT yard, waiting, of course, also for pan-European solutions, but having this feeling that this process can be longer and does not have to end in the declared deadlines. And there's one more thing about the results of the audits on fictional invoices. In the report presented, we do not provide VAT amounts which have not been entered into the state budget. We provide data from European Union reports and audit firms. Why? In fact, no one knows exactly how much this VAT doesn't affect the budget. In this respect, the NIK wishes to remain abstinence as a constitutional central authority of state control. We point out, of course, on the basis of objective data, also data from the European Commission, that the scale of fraud is high, since only in 2015 the directors of the tax audit offices measured the tax due on fictional invoices of PLN 12 billion. 12 billion PLN tax. And what part of the fictional invoices were found - someone might ask. This number is also unknown and I would not have the courage to empathize in a credible, reliable and verifiable way with some numbers that can be debatable every time. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Finally, I would like to inform you as the authority before which the Supreme Audit Chamber reports and to which it provides information from the checks carried out, as you may expect from the House in the near future in the context of the checks we are planning. We want to continue to explore the areas of government activities related to tax enforcement. Other areas of the economy will be identified where income generated from activities not prohibited by law is hidden in whole or in part from tax, customs and public authorities. The purpose of our findings will be the effectiveness of new legislative solutions and the activities of the services responsible for collecting tax revenue. This year, the House will carry out two coordinated checks in this area. This will, first of all, check how the administration deals with the illegal circulation of liquid fuels. The main objective of the House's control will be to check whether the regulations and control systems in force will contribute to reducing the illicit trade in liquid fuels in Poland. The results of our research will be published in the first quarter of next year. This year we will also carry out a control dedicated to the grey area, in which we will look at the activities of the tax authorities and customs authorities. We will see what the cooperation of these key ones looks like in order to combat the grey area of services subordinate to the finance minister. A report summing up the results of these checks is planned to be sent to you in the second quarter of next year. I am aware that even the most bureaucratic or, as others prefer, the most effective and efficient state is not able to control 100% economic processes, and even more control 100% transactions of all taxpayers. Therefore, both the size of the tax gap and the VAT losses can be given as an estimate. However, it is up to the constitutional control body to indicate the degree of efficiency of the tax system and the conclusions that result for the executive authority. We have shown you that we have been dealing with this issue for years. Legal regulation and the efficiency of tax authorities must ensure that the collection of taxes is adequate to the extent of economic turnover, i.e. at such a level that dishonest taxpayers, fraudsters do not prey on honest traders and citizens who meet their tax obligations fairly. Finally, I can make a declaration to you that the Supreme Audit Chamber will always be an ambassador, an entity supporting the activities of tax administrations and the Ministry of Finance. It is in the interest of all of us that the taxes that affect the Treasury should be adequate to those that result from fair, reliable calculations, and that an honest entrepreneur should not be in a worse position than the one who cheats makes the tax thinners of the Treasury. Let us also remember that this money serves to meet the needs of society in the form of various expenditures of the state budget implemented from these receipts in the size in which they are made. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u445	Thank you, Mr. President. The Sejm agreed that in its discussion on this item it would hear ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and a five-minute statement on behalf of the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Please, Mr Łukasz Schreiber, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u446	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present our position on the Supreme Audit Chamber report on invoices documenting fictional activities. I can say first of all that I listened with great interest to the speech of the President both at the meeting of the Joint Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on State Control on 27 April and here, in this plenary room, and above all during the reading of this report. And you could say it's a shocking image. A shocking picture under such a slogan: three times - we have the helplessness of offices, the impunity of criminals and just a powerless state. Mr President has already presented some of the numbers in this report, but I think they also make an impression presented together. Debt on goods and services tax at the end of 2015.42 600 million. Unpaid tax from fictitious VAT invoices - from 5200 million to 12 billion in one last year. Tax revenue collected in relation to GDP decreased from 17.4% 2007 to 14.5% in 2015. The main reason is VAT. The total amount of PLN 162 million, or 1,3%, was recovered from the invoices received and contested for the years 2013 to 2014 and for the first half of 2015. the amount of unpaid tax. Fictitious invoices are growing from less than 20 billion in 2013 to almost 82 billion in 2015. It is not surprising, therefore, that the VAT gap is rising from 18% in 2010 to 27% in 2013, and given the year 2005, this increase is from 9%. In 2015 this is already 3% of gross domestic product. And across the European Union, the gap is growing, apart from Poland, Greece, Estonia, Italy, Lithuania and Finland. How does this mechanism work? This mechanism works in two ways, that is, on the one hand, we have such, say, small scrapers. We know them, someone who collects fuel invoices from their neighbors and friends, say, and introduces them, but that's paradoxically less of a problem. They are much more organized, you can even say: criminal groups that work on the principle of poles. They use various types of mechanisms, such as fictitious intra-Community delivery of invoices, such as carousel offences or fictitious exports. Yes, as the president was talking about, we have the involvement of the IRS and the high efficiency of tax control, but when it comes to what, it turns out that we have virtual offices, that such a company has no assets, and sometimes it is run by foreigners. One example of this report, which I remembered when the company president who was arrested explained with disarming sincerity, signed invoices for more than 8 million PLN, that in fact he was only signing, giving him something, giving him 300 PLN for it. Of course, there are a lot of examples, and the result is that the amount of money recovered is between 0 and 1.5%. in different offices, and the rest is simply given up. This is because of what has been happening in Poland in recent years. Above all, there is a lack of political will to change and combat the situation in the last 8 years. It was the looting of all Poles, losses estimated at about PLN 300 billion. There is not only a gap in VAT, there is a growing economic activity in the grey area. It's almost 20% today. all economic activities. The administrative costs of tax collection in Poland are 1.6%. That's more than twice as much as in countries like Spain, where it's 0.67, or Ireland - 0.85%. The actions of the previous authority focused and closed mainly on the introduction of a single control file, simply carrying out this law, and on several failed things. The only right idea was to raise taxes. Thus, VAT and its basic rates increased from 7 to 8%. and from 22 to 23%, VAT on children's clothes grew, VAT was introduced on books, taxing reading. The budget was to gain PLN 4 billion. But what does it turn out to be? In fact, after the comparison of 2015 and 2014 we have a drop in revenue from taxes, from VAT revenue by PLN 1 billion. These are, of course, the number of shame and infirmities, but this is also the sum of the challenges facing the current government. At the same time, it is worth noting and emphasising that everything must be done to direct these actions to large organised criminal groups. Ladies and gentlemen, as to what to call such an activity, when only one entity has issued 4.7 thousand as a result of the inspection. fictitious invoices for the amount of PLN 234 million and the largest gross amount disclosed in one entity amounted to PLN 1165 million; in one entity only. Honest entrepreneurs are losing today, that's the truth. They struggle not only with unfair competition, but also with those who rob. These actions, which were taken by the government by Prime Minister Beata Szydło, are clearly directed towards large companies that are extorting huge money. The proposals of the Supreme Audit Chamber, which you mentioned, e.g. the central register of invoices. We have this done by introducing a special purpose vehicle for computerization. I mean, we're done -- we've got a bill passed so far, the work's going on. The public register of taxpayers' bank accounts is undoubtedly ahead of us. Limiting the quarterly possibility of billing VAT invoices - ongoing work. Optional split payment or limitation of cash payments - this is already realized. However, the government is announcing further action. It has been introduced into a single control file already such solutions that are to actually and actually focus on the operation of large, dishonest companies in this case. Tax avoidance clause. The entry of the Law and Justice into power gave last year 2 billion PLN more VAT revenues than assumed, without any further legal, systemic solutions. Submission of a VAT return by certain traders only by electronic means. Finally, it will soon be discussed in this House, I think, about the national tax administration, which is to seal, harmonise customs and fiscal services and actually direct these criminal groups. But it is also such actions as raising the wage in the Treasury, which for 8 years was frozen, the base amount, at the level of PLN 1870, while at the same time raising the minimum amount twice - to the level of PLN 1850. It is this government, this minister raised this amount, establishing 2850 PLN as a minimum amount for tax officials. There's gonna be another raise. This means that the tax service must in some sense be an elite and must be fairly well rewarded, otherwise it will not be effective enough for the tasks to be imposed on it. As one of the prominent politicians of the previous government team described it, the Polish state existed theoretically. In fact, reading into this report of the Supreme Audit Chamber, this is the impression that can be made. This Parliament, in this House, but it is also a great task for this government today. I'm sure we'll get out of this with a defensive hand. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u447	Thank you. Mr Janusz Silchoń, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u448	Dear Marshal, Dear President, Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the opinion of the Civic Platform Club on the results of the NIK's audit to prevent the placing on the market of invoices documenting fictitious activities. I would like to point out that the final assessment of NIK is essentially based on a lack of correlation between tax revenue and GDP, which is about the growth of these revenues due to GDP growth. The absence of this, this is also underlined by the President of the House, the reliable data showing the tax gap, as well as the tax loss that we are so often talking about here, was also mentioned by Mr Schreiber. In my opinion, we are dealing with the duplication of typical, very often repeated errors. The tax loss that Mr Schreiber referred to, which was referring to the Prime Minister's statement from the so-called. the audit, as well as Minister Shamacha, is a clear example of such violations, because the calculation of the tax loss prepared by the Minister of Finance was based on a comparison of tax revenues in relation to GDP, and this is a comparison, especially if we consider VAT, absolutely unauthorised. Recall: starting point 2007 - 22,7% GDP, such tax revenues and in 2015 - 19.8%. It's a difference of almost 3%, but it's not a tax loss, it's not a loss of income. This is really the sum total of the tax burden that is decreasing, which is among the lowest in Europe. It's like we're gonna put some more into it. ZUS contribution, that would be 31.5% while in Europe these burdens are about 40%. We've been bragging about it so far. Where does this change and decline in this relationship come from despite higher nominal VAT rates? Although it is also necessary to take into account the fact that at the same time VAT - I will remind you, Minister Szalamach also spoke about audit - while raising the basic tax rate, however, we have reduced VAT to a number of products important for the functioning of households. The benefit of households was about PLN 4.5 billion, and it really amounts to that amount per year, resulting from an analysis of tax preferences. But why do I feel that this is not entirely legitimate? Because this calculation does not take into account the fact that the structure of Polish GDP is changing, and it is not without influence on the level of tax revenue, especially in VAT. After all, we have a significant increase in exports, this export is increasingly important for Poland's GDP, and VAT revenues do not exist from this. We have a smaller share of industry, because the structure is changing, we are becoming a really modern country, and certainly a more modern, economically developed country. In this we have a GDP service, which also brings lower tax revenues. There's no way to ignore that. Or, for example, adjustments, such as those relating to prostitution, into GDP. It doesn't bring tax revenue, and GDP appears. I would like to stress this: not always does higher GDP have to mean higher tax revenues, even at nominal rates. We're having trouble calculating the tax gap. She's obviously in Poland. It worries us, worried us for years, and we did everything we could to limit it. I am pleased that to some extent also the President of the House saw these actions of the Ministry of Finance. On the other hand, if you wanted to look at what is the basis of this assessment, i.e. the issue of preventing the placing on the market of invoices documenting fictitious activities and negative opinions in this respect, it could be considered that polemics with this claim are generally very difficult, because in no place in this report did it indicate what state in particular parameters, e.g. in the area of enforcement or detection, the House would find it satisfactory. On the contrary, in many parts of this information we find that there is more accurate typing, an increase in the amount and value of apparent activities disclosed, also in accordance with procedures for carrying out enforcement activities. It should be presumed that, at the source of this negative assessment, it was too low in the opinion of the House - and this also sounded today in the statements of the President - the rate of recovered debts in relation to those set out in the decisions of the tax authorities and tax authorities. But here's where I think we're going. there is also a lack of understanding of the substance of the duties determined pursuant to Article. 108 VAT Act. While such a decision actually reveals a certain amount of duty to the State Treasury, it cannot be regarded as a VAT debt. Often duplicated error is the identification of amounts resulting from decisions taken pursuant to Article. 108 with tax thinning, and they do not determine either the existence or the magnitude of tax thinning in any way on a good case. And that's the problem. It's not enough that there's a certain multiplication of these sizes, in a situation where we don't just really get what you picked up by the president, the pillars, but we're also trying to get to the organizer. The more sublime criminals, the more devious they are, the more this multiplication actually is, because this road to the organizer is getting longer. This specificity of this construction causes, however, in my opinion, that these decisions should be made on the basis of the article. 108 treat as a tool in the fight against crime and the amounts resulting from it as determining the disclosed and tax-proven extent of the crime and not the tax obligations. As a result of a decision taken pursuant to Article. 108 need not be the collection of the amount specified therein. Its finality may be to prove the crime at a later stage, and this effect may occur even after a few years. We're the ones watching today, too. And the results of recent years will be visible in this year's and future budgets. I'm pretty sure about that. However, if you look closely at this, want to sum it up, it can be seen that not taking into account this particularity leads to a paradox, because the more accurate the authorities of tax control type, reveal real criminals only pretending to be active and generating fictional documents, the worse it will be when the philosophy presented by the Chamber will be evaluated. The indicator we talked about will be less and less beneficial. On the other hand, it is also worth taking into account that, in addition to the increase in these claims, the nominal value of the amounts enforced is also increasing. In 2015 this is 1,200 million PLN when it comes to fiscal control. I want to point out that we've been seeing this criminal, criminal thread for a long time. We've been working more closely with the D.A.'s office in recent years, with law enforcement. We finally made a deal and set up special teams. And I would also like to stress that most of the recommendations of the Supreme Chamber are consistent [[♪ The bell ♪]] for a good cause with the arrangements we have made inside the ministry, and basically in this interministerial team. Enough of that, an excellent majority of those recommendations...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u449	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u450	...we've started implementing it. Fingers crossed for the successors. Maybe they can do better. But at the same time...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u451	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u452	I'm just gonna say that I'm worried about whether or not... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u453	Thank you, sir. Mr President, please leave the speaker. Mr Grzegorz Długi, Kukiz.15. Please, Mr Grzegorz Długi, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u454	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much. I wanted to discuss the problem a little bit, but to be honest, Minister Janusz Cichoń's speech made me start with something else. Namely, the control report was not political. At least I hope so. This was not about assessing the work of the Ministry in which the Minister worked. At least I didn't hear it there. This wasn't about attacking anyone. Incidentally, regarding the speech of the Minister's predecessor, Mr Schreiber, I am also pleased that certain movements have already been made in the new ministry, but that is not the case. That's not what this debate is about. I want this debate today to be cross-party, unrelated in any way to politics, only related to the problem. And, Minister, there's no point in us discussing whether the methodology was one or another, because that's secondary. The first thing is that we have a very serious problem. And it's the NIK report that sees it. The NIK report showed it. I think it's only partially. Incidentally, this check was only about a part of the problem. But she should wake us all up. I regret to say that there have just been a lot of Members in this Chamber, a lot of emotions in conversations on topics far less important than what we are talking about at the moment, incomparably less important. We're talking about the huge money you're losing. The NIK report lists different amounts. As it turns out - if I say: from the information from my colleagues, it will sound bad - from my contacts with the ABW, they think that this amount is 80 billion PLN... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] It's probably exaggerated, but at least it motivates them to work. We are talking about the fact that we are dealing with financial terrorism, because in the case of such huge money, this is the best way for this country to collapse. Therefore, the issue of VAT sealing, the sealing of our tax system is no longer a problem of fiscal, financial and sophisticated discussions in audit firms, is beginning to be a matter of our independence. If we lose more money every year than the ones that cause our budget gap, then we start to be threatened as a country. Let's reach to our history, to the 17th century, to the 18th century, when it was because we didn't collect taxes that someone else took care of it, apologizing, and finally losing our independence. We're talking about so much money that we can't talk about it with 10 people. I am terrified that only 10 Members are interested in whether this country will still exist. This can't be right. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Yeah, about 10 people, maybe a total of fifteen of us. I am pleased that there are five Members of the Law and Justice. [[Voice from the room: There are 40% Members from Podkarpacie.]] However, this does not change the fact that it should be a room full of angry, emotional Members, because this issue is more important than all the ones we discussed today, including terrorism, because I believe that the money that comes out is also killing. 'Cause where do they go? They go to organized crime groups, and these organized crime groups don't care about babysitting, but if someone doesn't like them, they can also physically remove them. Unfortunately, it is. Our tax and special services, ABW, CBA, etc., are working on it, but I am looking at it, I am sorry, I am also acting professionally in these cases as the defender of people who are being closed by these services, and I see this problem, because of course my clients are innocent, but this is a completely different matter, but I am observing the frustration of these people, they are closing them, and in three months' time they leave and continue to operate, while their companies are protected by the highest officials of this country, who have already resigned from positions in such or other departments. Something here, ladies and gentlemen, is not right. If we don't do this, no one's gonna do it unless we lose our independence, these new guys are gonna do it, 'cause we're gonna keep the land. High Izbo! Public order in the state is not to be maintained if criminals have more money than the state. We have to take care of this. That's the problem. It's not just Poland, it's true. No one's analyzed why in Sweden we're talking about 4%, I've heard 7 percent, scale of fraud, in Poland - 27 percent, in Romania - 40%, etc. Mr. President was talking about it. We need to analyze why it's different there. If this is just a matter of a certain legal culture, which is possible, I do not exclude, then let us focus on this legal culture in the country. I know that a colleague from Modern City is about to say that the Constitutional Tribunal is an example of the fact that we do not respect this culture. We don't respect it, so let's think about how to improve it. Let us consider how to increase public awareness of the problem that exists. In my opinion, Minister Cichoń's statement did not serve this because it was a bit of a translation that we had already fought it. That's how you fought. Not effective? It is true that it is ineffective, and I do not blame it, because the problem is very complicated - very complicated - and I fear that the current ministry does not know how to fight it, because the European Union does not know how to fight it. The problem is of an EU nature. In my opinion, the European Union has put down a little bit because it doesn't know how to deal with it, because it would have to eliminate intra-Community supplies of goods, and it would have slaughtered the economy, so to speak. Therefore, the problem is a class that requires the highest concentration and hard work on all of this. The fact that the Union does not have a solution is difficult. As part of our EU cooperation, we should think about this, but let us also think about how much this negative impact can be limited at the level of our country. The President has actually given some solutions. I believe that it is not the role of the NIK to solve these problems. The NIK can indicate what it has in its research plan, and very well, and it is also legally supposed to indicate what could be done, but it is not responsible for finding a brilliant prescription for all of this. I would like to thank the House for its solid attention to this problem, that this material, even if it is not perfect, can serve to stimulate the social imagination to start mass action. It must be a mass increase in public awareness about the fact that we have a problem that is as important as, I don't know, taking children from mothers who don't have money, a problem that has existed three times in this country, and we talked about it in the Seym, I don't know how many times. So let us focus on what is really important. Our legal responses are still one step ahead of the criminals, right? There is a problem with steel, so we accept the reversed tax on steel. Once they're turned into gold, we're putting in solutions for gold. We're always one step behind. This can't be right. We need to think about how to move forward, how to react more quickly. Sometimes we have a system that kills, quotes, innocents. Unfortunately, it is. I'm just talking about my clients here. In other words, unfortunately, sometimes we have to give up part of freedom, including economic freedom, in order to save normal competition, because we are saving competition. It is not fair if someone skips VAT, has a cheaper product and thus eliminates an entrepreneur who wants to act legally. This is something we have to keep in mind that by saving this system, we save competition, which not everyone remembers. Entrepreneurs also need to know, especially honest ones, that unfortunately sometimes it has to be a little harder to be fair to everyone. Unfortunately, the problem is so important. The review of the law must be applied as effectively as possible. We need to start working on cooperation between organs. A single file is a help here, but at a time when our country has 60 different electronic, IT systems that don't fit together at all, it's an invitation for criminals to use it. Guys, let's get this over with. Estonia was able to do this quickly and specifically with regard to information systems. VAT isn't doing well yet, but it's a completely different matter. She's not doing well on our level. The law must be much faster. modified in this respect and the response must be rapid. It requires a very efficient command center. A separate group should be set up - I do not say that the service, because it makes no sense - specialists, well-paid people, not like treasure officials who are paid in the inn. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What I'm saying in public right now is probably very unfashionable, after all, everyone hates tax officials. And I say, you have to give them more...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u455	Finish your work, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u456	...so they'd have more motivation to work so we could have treasurers, so to speak, top class. I have to go now, so that in the next discussion... I would like to invite you to these discussions. This problem is important. I don't know. Why don't we create...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u457	Thank you, sir. [[Voice from the room: Turn off the microphone.]] 'Cause I'm gonna have to turn off the microphone, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u458	You can count on your clubmates.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u459	Mrs Elizabeth Stępień, Moderna, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u460	Mr. Marshal! Mr. President! High Izbo! Invited guests! There are really things that are important and more important. Undoubtedly, the Constitutional Tribunal is one of the most important ones, but how important is the issue of checks, anti-fraud. And this is what the NIK report says: about the results of the audit, about countering the conduct of invoices documenting fictitious activities. The content itself is very rich, it implies a lot of reflection. However, the Modern Club would like to focus more on learning from what was done, what was misguided, what could be done better, thinking ahead. The issue of tax fraud is a common problem, it is a global problem. The fact is that comprehensive solutions have not yet been developed that would allow effective elimination of this problem. However, a number of solutions can be identified which are able to significantly reduce the scale of this problem. On the basis of available reports drawn up by various types of consulting companies, these activities can include solutions implemented by other countries. And, for example, in the UK there is quite a big, big success, which is precisely about an increased dialogue with entrepreneurs. Modern data solutions, other technologies as well as e-controls. And it is in that country that, thanks to IT solutions that have improved the detection of tax fraud, the UK fiscus systematically increases tax collection by several hundred million pounds a year. It is also worth noting that it was not the increase in control that caused such an important issue, but the earlier improvement in the detection of tax fraud. Moreover, issues relating to the high qualifications of employees of the fiscal equipment remain important. Polish fiscal equipment lacks training on state-of-the-art, latest methods of detecting fraud, as well as experts in reacting quickly to it. Furthermore, it is pointed out that the tax authorities should cooperate with other entities, as Mr Długi also said. Many experts have just pointed out that there are not enough workers. As a result, the Polish system is inefficient. However, the biggest flaw seems to be the lack of advanced solutions from the IT industry. Moreover, it is a common phenomenon to disregard the fraud detected by the tax authority for a period of 4 and 5 years until limitation. The purpose of such procedures is the willingness to accept interest by the State Treasury, while the Western domain is the ongoing control and immediate action. In the case of fiscal control, the law shall specify its maximum duration. This does not seem very long, but in practice it is often different, e.g. The average control time is between 135 and 230 days, of course depending on the region. The record is 1900 days. I don't think we want that kind of record. The tax authorities blame taxpayers who lie and conspire, avoid. On the other hand, taxpayers criticize the tax authorities because they are intrusive because they are not qualified because they have a negative attitude. The rates of fines shall be determined separately for offences and tax offences. For the first, the minimum penalty in 2016 was PLN 616,60 and the maximum was PLN 17 758. Really, I read it and it's laughter. through tears. In the second case it is 185 PLN and 37 thousand PLN. zł. The rates depend on the minimum remuneration per year. In our view, they should be much higher due to the scale of the problem. Higher penalties strongly discourage some of the actors involved, but they need to know that the tax system can effectively and quickly track potential fraud. In the absence of efficiency, cheaters can feel safe. According to the latest report by NIK, the current ways of combating tax fraud are ineffective and the scale of the problem is growing. Therefore, the institution proposed the following solutions: the obligation to issue VAT invoices via the server of the Ministry of Finance, i.e. the so-called. the central register, which is a good idea, the launch of a public register of taxpayers' bank accounts, the limitation of the possibility to settle quarterly VAT, the universal standardisation of records of data on accounting documents and payments, the addition of further conditions for the deletion of the taxable person from the VAT register. Here I think there is a point to the discussion. These proposals should be assessed positively, especially those relating to information technology. An important aspect is also the reduction of quarterly accounts. The increasingly popular form of tax fraud is so-called. carousel, i.e. the liquidation of business activities before due tax settlement. Similar ideas were presented by the Modern Party, which is also in favour of reducing cash payments. However, data from Europe do not confirm the correlation between cash settlements and tax fraud. However, the mere introduction of such restrictions, but not total elimination, should not have negative effects. That's why it might be worth the experiment. On the other hand, it should be pointed out that the above. solutions are based on State interference in economic activity, while it is far too much in the Polish economy. Moreover, the proposed solutions are based on prohibitions, orders, checks and penalties. These are of course necessary, but it is worth leaning on ideas that will eliminate the root of the problem, i.e. too complex and illegible tax law, especially the incomprehensible VAT law, and the high scale of fiscalism. The situation also does not improve the measurement of the effectiveness of tax authorities. For example, in 2015 80% was required the checks have been terminated with the taxpayer's punishment. This isn't the way. It is not surprising, therefore, that the aggressive, prescriptive-prohibited approach of the State towards the taxpayer causes the public to commit tax fraud and flee to the shadow economy. Moreover, the efficiency of the tax authorities is not increasing, while the scale of the problem is increasing. Therefore, tax reduction and the drafting of new laws seem to be good ideas - now being revised several hundred times - which will increase readability and understanding of complex legislation. The question of the tax gap should also be taken into account. The tax gap in Poland in recent years grew continuously until 2013, reaching 46.8 billion PLN according to our estimates. This figure was almost 30% of the theoretical receipts that the State's VAT budget should achieve and 2,9% gross domestic product. In 2014, the VAT gap decreased to PLN 41.2 billion, 24.9%. theoretical influences and 2,3% GDP. The decrease in the VAT gap last year was the result of a number of actions undertaken by the Ministry of Finance. These activities consisted primarily of the so-called 'programming' principle. reverse charge, i.e. reverse VAT, parts of products, which have been traded in an extremely large scale of fraud. The reverse VAT consisting of a liability for its removal from the buyer's party was introduced, inter alia. in the trading of a number of metal goods, including ferrous bars, waste and secondary raw materials, as well as selected goods in the category of electronics. It must be made clear, however, that this remedy has only an ad hoc effect, a post-factum, and cannot provide a long-term solution against VAT fraud. Another measure recently taken by the Ministry of Finance is to intensify the activities of tax control offices and tax intelligence in order to identify and detect VAT fraud. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In fact, to recap, because I would like to say even more, but time was short, the finance department has a long and busy way to go with the introduction of tools to prevent such situations. I would like to summarize this with Confucius' words: Make honesty more profitable than stealing. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u461	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Łopata, Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u462	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear President, On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I would like to present our opinion, our position on the information of the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber on the results of the control against the marketing of invoices documenting fictional activities. High Seym! The problem is. The problem is real and serious, and however we approach the control methods presented by President NIK and the resulting figures or amounts, it must be pointed out and stressed that the phenomenon of placing invoices on the economic market documenting fictitious activities is increasingly impudent, even so Named, and forced the authorities of the state to step up their preventive action. It is also worth noting at first that this is a phenomenon occurring in many, if not in all countries that apply this tax, and certainly in the European Union. The report, the document we are currently debating, was created as a result of the planned control of the Supreme Audit Chamber and covered the year 2014 and half by 30 June 2015. It was presented at a joint joint meeting of the Committee on State Control and the Committee on Public Finance, and as a result of a joint and consistent decision we are also debating today. In addition to the political aspect that we could expect - as we have heard, these political positions have also been presented - this debate also has, I think, the advantage of prevention, prevention of this type of criminal enterprise and can lead to an increasingly effective perception of how to detect these unauthorised, criminal methods. High Seym! As I said, the phenomenon of crimes in the area of VAT, because there are various methods, methods, characteristic frauds carried out using fictional invoices, is primarily a fictional intra-Community supply of goods. The lack of border controls, as has already been mentioned, makes it easier to fake such deliveries. These are also carousel crimes as a fictitious movement of goods between at least two - and in practice much more - countries of the European Union or fictitious exports, supplies to countries outside the European Union, in particular countries with which cooperation in the fight against tax fraud is hindered. So, as I said, these are methods and methods, this is a problem that the administration around the world is trying to deal with, and certainly in all countries of the European Union, this is not only a phenomenon known to the Polish fiscal office and Poland. However, the problem is that according to the report of the Supreme Chamber of Control, the size of the gap in the tax on goods and services remained unfortunately higher in Poland than the average size of this phenomenon in other countries of the European Union. The data from the European Commission for the years 2010 to 2013 show that this gap has increased from 18 to 27% VAT revenue which can be achieved. To illustrate where we are moving, as we are talking about, I think it is worth recalling from this report, as at the end of December 2014, that more than 1620 thousand were registered in tax offices. VAT taxable persons, including 744,5 thousand. EU VAT payers. It should also be noted that, as in previous years, the number of active VAT taxable persons remained close, while the number of EU VAT taxable persons increased. At the end of June 2015, the number of active VAT payers amounted to 1628.9 thousand, while the taxable persons in this EU VAT system were 788.5. thousands. I think it is also appropriate to quote the data presented by the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber on this phenomenon. The gross value of invoices, i.e. the value of economic transactions indicated in the contested invoices, is 19 700 million in 2013, while in 2015 it is already 81 900 million PLN. It was spread out to around 360 thousand. invoices - we are talking about such a scale, about such a phenomenon. The tax applied by the directors of the tax control offices on the detected fictional invoices amounted to 2,300 million for 2013, and about 12 billion for 2015. But unfortunately, a small proportion of these amounts have been recovered, these amounts have already fallen here, because 160 300 thousand. These amounts also show... I understand that this is the intention of the NIK report to illustrate on the one hand the scale of the problem, but also to show the reliability and relevance of the existing activities of the tax authorities, and on the other hand the delays and ineffectiveness of the enforcement of the taxes due. The NIK explicitly states that the activities of the tax authorities, albeit reliable, were largely ineffective, and the audited tax control offices, in line with the recommendations of the Minister of Finance, focused their actions on combating irregularities in taxes on goods and services. The audit was marked with an extremely large number - it is the NIK that clearly emphasizes - often even 90% of the players with a high risk of irregularities, and the checks ended with findings of irregularities. Controlled tax offices carried out security and enforcement procedures fairly, in accordance with the applicable procedure, but from entities involved in fraudulent activities, mainly companies, so-called. poles were not enforced as a result of tax controls. In most cases, the tax authorities were also unable to identify actual tax fraud organisers. It's just from the NIK report. High Seym! The introduction of fictional invoices is a very serious problem, as I said earlier, regardless of the political aspect, it needs to be given as much attention as possible and therefore the most important is diagnosis and countermeasures. As far as diagnosis is concerned, I think that earlier analyses of the Ministry of Finance and the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber are accurate and customs-friendly and, for this, the Supreme Auditorium must also be thanked to the President. Now it's all about countering, and this is where the NIK is making some proposals. Well, as we can see, the scale of the risks justifies, according to NIK, the need to analyse the possibility of introducing in Poland such solutions as: the obligation to issue invoices through the server of the Ministry of Finance, the public register of bank accounts of taxpayers, the limitation of the possibility of quarterly settlement in VAT, the universal standardization of data records, documents, bookings, payments, the addition of further conditions determining the removal of taxable persons from the VAT register. It is also worth considering an optional so-called. the shared payment or the possibility of applying the split payment solution as a condition for the waiver of joint and several liability and the extension of joint and several liability in such a way that it will apply in the case of payment of transactions to an account other than that shown. These are certain solutions or proposals of solutions which NIK has included in its report. Of course, they're probably not all of them, and I also think they're not all at the same time, but we need to draw from this directory of solutions. I believe that this is what the government and parliament should focus on, so that the next report will be more optimistic. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u463	Thank you very much. Mr Ireneusz will now take the floor to gain from the Circle of Members of Freedom and Solidarity.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u464	Free and Solidarnia. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the information of the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber on the results of the control against the placing on the market of invoices documenting fictitious activities. The audit carried out by the NIK, covering the period from January 2014 to 30 June 2015, was intended to assess the reliability and effectiveness of the activities of the tax control authorities, preventing the placing on the market of invoices documenting fictitious activities. Among the specific objectives, an assessment of the activities of the Minister of Finance and its supervision towards the tax authorities in combating this crime is made for the first time. Its appalling scale is clearly demonstrated by the data given in the report. The value of the contested invoices increased from PLN 18.7 billion in 2013 to almost PLN 82 billion in 2015. Only last year, 360 thousand were revealed. such invoices, and their average value was approx. 227,000. zł. Today it has been mentioned several times in this speaker, but these numbers are so frightening that it is worth repeating them again. The purpose of such invoices is to extort VAT, to avoid paying tax or to overwrite costs in order to reduce income tax. Despite an increase in the value of tax applied by tax authorities for fictional invoices from PLN 2.3 billion in 2013 to PLN 12 billion in 2015, recovery of unpaid VAT from fictional invoices presents huge difficulties, mainly due to the lack of assets of persons who are used to commit fraud by their actual organisers, which is difficult to establish. In addition, it should be added that too long has passed since the acquisition of information on suspicious transactions and the initiation of checks and the level of penalties which are completely inadequate to the seriousness of the crime. As a result, VAT arrears increased at an alarming rate - from 12.3 billion at the end of 2011 to PLN 42.7 billion at the end of last year. As I mentioned in my speech on the government draft law amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and amending certain other laws, the problem of VAT fraud does not apply only to Poland, but to the whole area of the European Union. Since there is no concept and willingness to implement systemic solutions in this area within the Community, it is worth focusing on comprehensive rather than ad hoc solutions developed during the work of the Council of Ministers and the Sejm and Senate of the Republic of Poland. It is certainly worth looking at solutions that work and work properly in other countries. One of them is to develop a central invoice register. Portugal, the Czech Republic and Slovakia have introduced such a solution with good results. The reduction of the VAT gap is certainly not conducive to the increasing complexity of this tax and the numerous interpretations made by the tax authorities. This fact is absolutely used by cheaters, for, as you know, fish are well caught in cloudy water. Classics have become online memes comparing the number of pages of comments to the VAT Act of the 1990s and in recent years. Therefore, it is worth listening to the voice of business organisations appealing not even for tax reduction but for simplification. This applies to all taxes, in particular the tax on goods and services. Mr. President! I would like to stress that the information submitted has been prepared at a very high level of factual and substantive findings. Thank you for working so hard on this problem. I hope that the arrangements contained in the information submitted will provide an impetus to the government and parliament's action to address the negative developments under this study. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u465	Thank you very much. Five Members have joined the floor. I am closing the list of Members. I'm setting the time for the question - one minute. [[Just one? Maybe an hour and a half?]] Please, Mrs Józefina Hrynkiewicz, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u466	Mr. Marshal! Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! I have a few questions for the president, thanking you, of course, for this report, which is very important. First question: How does the House assess the state and effectiveness of the IT system used by the tax authorities? My second question concerns the assessment of the supervision of tax services on VAT fraud on the one hand and the assessment of the operation in organizing fraud, which I also met during my parliamentary work. I would still like to ask: How does the Supreme Audit Office assess the interaction of the prosecutors and the qualifications of prosecutors involved in VAT fraud and trade in fictional invoices? And my last question. I would like to ask for an assessment of the cooperation of tax services in the investigation of VAT fraud with special services, including the role of courts and economic courts [[♪ The bell ♪]] and their activities. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u467	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Krzysztof Sitarski, Kukiz club15. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u468	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question: What actions will the Government of the Republic take to combat and stop companies from issuing fictional invoices? The purpose of criminals is to extort undue VAT on intra-Community trade. In order to usurp the right to the real trade in goods, companies are formed in other countries of the European Union and fictitious sources of origin of goods are documented, showing continuity of supply and taxation of transactions. The so-called carousel frauds are a problem for economic operators, and the biggest problem is the verification of contractors. It must be borne in mind that such fraud is paid for by the whole society and there would practically be no budget gap if these finances were more controlled. And how is he going to protect the government of the Republic of Poland from the trap of trading with a contractor who is a tax fraud? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u469	Thank you very much. Mr Kazimierz Moskal, the Law and Justice Club, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u470	Mr. Marshal! Mr. President! Minister! High Izbo! Short questions and to the President, and to the Minister. What is the geography of crime and abuse? What do they depend on and what are the regions particularly affected by this pathology, and how far are they not? Next question: How many coordinated controls have been in the last five years? Because it's also an indicator of how effectively we fight, if not. What's important is the rules, but they're important people too. We're talking about standards, which are likely to distort the operation sometimes, pay is low. I will quote Professor Modzelewski and I would like you to take this into account. He said this about the record VAT refund for 2015: one of the opposition politicians 'privately' assured me that PiS has no and will have nothing to talk about in Świętokrzyskia, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Let him handle the Smolensk disaster. In his opinion, he can at best be allowed to do politely what was 'agreed with liberals' and, in particular, let IT companies earn money on pseudo-VAT reforms.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u471	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u472	I wonder if he was right. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u473	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Rzońc, the Law and Justice Club, is now speaking. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u474	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! You could say, "So what if NIK knows there's VAT fraud?" So what if the finance minister knows? All this later comes, as Prof. Hrynkiewicz said just now, to the prosecutor's office, who is able or unable to undertake a crime analysis. But there's something even worse. There are still courts, unprepared courts to analyze these issues. And in my opinion... [[And so are the prosecutors.]] This is my question: Does the Ministry of Finance, the Supreme Audit Chamber, President, work with judges to train them to properly assess tax fraud? Because here's the end of the chain for tax crimes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u475	Thank you very much. Mr Kazimierz Gołojuch, the Law and Justice Club, is now speaking.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u476	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Mr. President! The placing on the economic market of fictional invoices is a serious phenomenon in Poland. It turns out that companies that have committed VAT fraud continue to be included in the business register. Shouldn't such mechanisms be introduced, such as those that would eliminate such companies automatically from the register after proven crime? And my question is, is there work in this direction? Many companies, honest, honest, unfair contractors have been exposed to unjustified, unfair fiscal consequences. Now it's straightened, and good. And here's my question: When it comes to companies that have been harmed, will they be repaired? Because the crooks haven't been caught, or there's nothing left to collect. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And honest entrepreneurs are being punished. I believe that these honest entrepreneurs should be appreciated, nurtured, because they are actual VAT payers. And I'm asking you to do that. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u477	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u478	Mr. Marshal! Mr. President! I would like to thank you for presenting this report, the information. I hope that the results of the analyses and checks carried out by the Supreme Audit Chamber will translate into some activities of the tax services, and indeed these irregularities will be as low as possible. By the way, Mr. Marshal, I'm asking you. If there is a decision to revoke the last two points of the sitting, I would ask that Members who reschedule three times a flight to their home, waiting and wishing to fulfil their parliamentary obligation, be informed that the Seniors Convention amends the decision and deletes the last two points of the meeting. All the more so because the same thing was done at the last meeting with the same points. I ask for such information, that such information be provided by your marshal, because even in his form. [[♪ The bell ♪]] electronic has not been transmitted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u479	Mr Dolniak, I would like to inform you that at the meeting of the Sejm Bureau there was a marshal from your club, Marshal Dolniak, and then at the meeting of the Senior Convention there was a representative of your club... [[Is it a problem to present this...]] [[Voice from the room: But it's about the official...]] ...and the information is on the website, so... [['Cause I'm not...]] Mr President, your club has a duty to inform you of this. From your club, your Marshal was at the Bureau meeting an hour or half an hour ago and agreed to this, as was the case at the Seniors Convention meeting of your club's representative, so that we could move these points. [[And it seems to me that such an obligation also belongs to the Marshal of the Sejm. Thank you very much.]] You have your marshal, and report to him your grievances. [[There was a replacement.]] Please? [[That information could have been passed on.]] And that's your concern, not mine. I have no obligation to inform you of anything, except, of course, what concerns the functioning of the proceedings as a whole, not what happened at the Sejm Bureau meeting when your representative was present. [[This concerns the agenda, Mr. Marshal.]] Mr President, don't argue. Please have a grudge against your representatives at the Sejm Bureau and the Senior Convention. [[Voice from the room: Change your representative in the Convention.]] Please, President of the Supreme Chamber of Control, Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. You're welcome, Mr. Chairman. [[This is ridiculous treatment.]] This is very ridiculous, I agree with you, but please tell Marshal Dolnyak, the representative of your club. That's your club. [[It's the Convention.]] Then change the marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u480	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Messengers! I'm answering the questions you've asked. Mrs Józef Hrynkiewicz asked about the effectiveness of the IT systems used by the tax administration. These are two basic systems. VIES is an electronic network for the exchange of information between Member States in intra-Community transactions. Of course, I am talking about systems used in carousel crimes related to VAT payments and VAT taxpayers. This system also contains information on the validity of VAT identification numbers of traders registered in the Member States. Eurofisc is a network that provides a multilateral early warning mechanism for cross-border VAT fraud, among other things. exchange of information between Member States on potential areas of fraud. We in the course of our inspections, although we did not specifically examine the quality of these systems, did not find any irregularities related to their use. Here, perhaps, the Minister could serve some more in-depth knowledge. Undoubtedly, however, those activities which are undertaken in the IT area, a single file, the use of electronic communication in a wider way between tax administrations and taxpayers, this is absolutely the direction recommended by the Supreme Audit Chamber. In countries where these IT tools are used more widely, we see that the scale of these frauds is, of course, difficult to assess to what extent only the use of these tools is concerned, in general, less. Regarding the assessment of cooperation with the prosecution: this is a more complicated situation, ladies and gentlemen. I will refer to an example that I can discuss very thoroughly, because this is an example related to the control of the Supreme Auditorium. He is very curious, because he shows a little bit of this problem where I think he is the most important, i.e. on the so-called. Polish province. We have studied, and this may surprise you, from which I begin, the activity of the foundation of the gmina Kleszczów. It is the richest municipality in Poland, located in the Łódź Voivodeship. We studied its activities, because this foundation was visited by a lot of areas transferred by the municipalities either free of charge, or for a fraction of the real value of these properties, to sell them, otherwise of course at a reduced price according to this philosophy, which led to entrepreneurs who were to start up production activities in the municipality which, of course, resulted in the creation of jobs. In the course of this audit, we revealed repeatedly the sale of real estate for the symbolic value of several hundred thousand PLN, which in the chain of companies was sold for 1 million, 2, 5, 7, 15, 20, twenty few. We're talking about the same property. In our opinion, these were fictional transactions. Here we can judge differently, we didn't have the right tools to go so deep. I'll tell you why. The chain of companies in these transactions, in the case of this check, were all companies that were registered in Cyprus. The owners of these companies were Ukrainian citizens. Companies disappeared each time after a one-off transaction. We, after this inspection, were still in the course of this inspection, making appropriate notifications to the district attorney's office, in this case the District Attorney's Office in Bełchatów and the District Attorney's Office in Piotrków Trybunalski. Here I must tell you, as a lawyer, that I was astonished to note the decisions of the prosecution following our conclusions, which either did not consider it appropriate to initiate proceedings, or that the proceedings had ceased, unable to determine the perpetrators or to see the minor harm in the act. In this case, I applied to the Attorney General and only in the procedure of professional supervision did all those proceedings which had previously been concluded by the prosecution's office in the field have been reopened by the Public Prosecutor's Office and now the Public Prosecutor's Office. I am talking to you about this because, to be honest, this has been a surprising experience for me, and I am also saying this as a former Attorney General, because I was able to get to know these cases very carefully based on the analysis of all the documents that we have secured in the course of our inspections. To be honest, I was intellectually overstepped by the decision of the competent field offices of the prosecution who did not initiate these proceedings. And that's the indirect answer to the question. My assessment is that I do not want to judge whether we are talking about the lack of professionalism of prosecutors - these are, of course, difficult matters of an economic nature - whether we are talking about other relationships in the local system, which may interfere with the objectivity of the decisions made, that I will use a certain euphemism, but honestly say: I disagreed with these decisions and they were completely incomprehensible to me. I also have no doubt that the level of understanding of economic matters at the level of the field prosecutors is far from sufficient in relation to the scale of the challenges. Hence, even when I was working at the Ministry of Justice, I insisted that such in-depth trainings concerning economic matters should be carried out within the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office. I also have no doubt that this must be a specialization of prosecutors. Otherwise, there is a case of bike theft, even in excess of, let's give, 500 PLN, from the cell block, and otherwise there are proceedings related to the chain of companies which are registered abroad and whose owners are nationals of foreign countries, including countries outside the European Union, which, of course, increases the degree of difficulty. Evaluation of court work. I have to say, I'm not doing this. The court's judgment, as soon as it falls, is the final judgment. I'd feel awkward as a former Minister of Justice... [[Six years later.]] ...so here I'm gonna be able to get away with the answer. However, in the context of the services, I would like to say that wherever during the course of the audit we have revealed cases where not only a pillar has been established, i.e. the person who was in the chain of companies, but also the actual perpetrators, there has been very close cooperation between the tax authorities and the special services responsible for the police structures concerned. I have no doubt that we are dealing with such a well-organized economic mafia, that only the best specialists and cooperation of various institutions from which... Let us remember that the various institutions also have different competences. We as NIK analyze documents and submit a lot of notices to the prosecution, because even if we are suspected of committing a crime, e.g. corruption, I'm often the one who can't determine it based on documentary analysis. We say, for example, that the price was grossly too low, grossly too high, that we are concerned about personal relationships between persons representing the contracting entity and the contracting entity, but on the basis of this I cannot yet say that there has been corruption. I can tell you I have a suspicion about that. If it's documented, we're filing a notice to the D.A.'s office. If we have less facts directly indicating it, then I usually send the appropriate letter to the head of the appropriate special service, in most cases it is the Central Anti-corruption Office. And I have no doubt that just close cooperation between different institutions... I can also tell you that the prosecutor's office and the various institutions have repeatedly asked NIK for checks, which are system checks, based on documents and give you some knowledge and some opportunity to carry out activities on the basis of use, for example. operating techniques, but already having a certain sump to know how to direct these conducts. Let me give you another example of the fact that this cooperation does not always run smoothly. We had such a very important control of what was happening with the so-called estate. The Employee Holiday Fund, to which more than 200 properties of the State Treasury came several years ago. It is an interesting fact from this inspection that this property was transferred by a Deputy Minister, who later worked as head of the OPZZ estate - here I can name the head office, because it was precisely this head office - and later he dealt with this property as a representative of the foundation to which the property from the union headquarters was transferred. And when it comes to the fact that the Seym of the previous term adopts the bill, we secure this property. Turns out there's 1/5 of this property, of value, I don't have to say how much less. It is surprising to me that when I sign a notice to the prosecution in this area, also having very interesting findings, this case goes to the police - Poznań-Grunwald police station - and it is handled by a sergeant, for example. Shave, I don't remember, sorry, names. And to be honest, as soon as I got the information on who was gonna do this, I had the overwhelming impression that I knew how this whole thing was gonna end. Of course, the case ended with closure due to the unconfirmed signs of crime. I am telling you this because, unfortunately, our public institutions in various areas are often weak. That is why, with many NIK inspections, we are talking about the need for cooperation, cooperation, greater specialisation, and we are returning to this issue many times with these various controls. Mr Kazimierz Moskal asked about the geography of crime related to fictional invoices. Most of the cases revealed, and this, in my opinion, is also the answer to the scale of where these crimes can most often occur... And that is not surprising either, because these are the largest voivodships, where there are also most companies. It was four voivodships, in order, as I say, reflecting also the number of events. They were voivodships: Mazowieckie, Śląskie, Małopolskie and Pomorskie. I'm sorry, I don't have the data on the number of coordinated checks in front of me right now, but the Minister may be able to answer more precisely about the coordinated controls that have been carried out in this respect. Mr Kazimierz Gołojuch and Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz have, as I understand it, raised questions to the government administration. It seems to me that the ones that were directed to the NIK, I answered. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u481	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. I propose that the Sejm accept the information of the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber on the results of the control against the placing on the market of invoices documenting fictitious activities for information. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. On this we exhausted the agenda of the 20th meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to come forward? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. [[I volunteered.]] Before? No, you didn't. Please, Mr Sylvester Tulaev, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome. [[Statement. I'd like a statement, not a corrigendum.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u482	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the eve of the 17th National Pilgrimage of Polish Post Workers to Jasna Góra I would like to emphasize the importance and importance of this institution for cultivating religious and national values. The pilgrimage of posters to the Czestochowa shrine perfectly fits into the centuries-old religious and patriotic tradition of worshiping places especially important for the history and culture of our country. For 17 years the meetings at Jasna Góra have brought together thousands of postal workers and their families who come from all over Poland to participate in Holy Mass together, entrusting the Polish Post to Our Lady, their work and their families. There are active and retired employees of Polish Post from all over the country, representatives of various professional groups - employees of post offices, postmen, employees of operation, logistics and security. The values for which pilgrims travel together to Jasna Góra are connected with our faith and respect for the other man, with honesty, kindness to others, responsibility for themselves, for co-workers and for the company's fate. It's priceless for the post office. It is precisely such events that allow us to feel particularly strongly that posters form a community that interconnects a modern institution that effectively competes with European postal operators, a community that in times of danger did not hesitate to fight in defence of Polishness and independence, and is now firmly facing new challenges. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I cordially greet all Polish Post employees from this place and wish them every success and satisfaction in doing their job. I also wish the rich fruits of tomorrow's pilgrimage of Polish Posters to Jasna Góra. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u483	Thank you very much. Now Mr Piotr Uruski, the Law and Justice Club. Sir, do you have it written? I encourage you to file a protocol. You'll gain. Then five minutes of life. [[All right, Marshal, I'll save those five minutes.]] Doesn't the Member have a written letter? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u484	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would just like to add that this debate, which has just taken place, on the introduction of false invoices, that such debates should take place with greater participation of Members within the time frame that is defined. Today, we have been informed that we are expected to be sitting from such an hour. Members also have responsibilities in their territory, so they are going to meet with voters. Therefore, I would just like to encourage such debates to take place either on the first day or on the second day of the meeting, and not at the end, by pushing such an important dialogue on fundamental issues for the economy into margins. Thank you. That's it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u485	Thank you very much. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u486	June 6th this year It was the 25th anniversary of John Paul II's visit to Włocławek. The Holy Father met representatives of the Polish school in Włocławska Cathedral. I was lucky enough to attend this special meeting at the beginning of my professional teacher's career, which directed my thinking about fulfilling my professional appointment. The meeting of the representatives of the school with the Pope was unique, how unique the whole pontificate of John Paul was. II. In Włocławek, the Holy Father spoke to teachers and educators about the extraordinary sensitivity of young people to beauty, truth and justice, about the role of culture in building identity and education by love. It is significant that three months after the meeting of John Paul II with the Polish school, on 7 September 1991, the law on the education system was passed, which then led to a breakthrough in the school system and education regulations. The organizer of the jubilee celebrations was the Ministry of Teachers and Educators of the Włocław Diocese and the International Association Organization of the NSZZ.Solidarity of the Workers of Education and Higher Education of Kujaw and Dobrzyńska Land. The celebrations commemorating the stay of the Holy Father John Paul II were organized under the motto of John Paul II in the heart and memory. I had the privilege of working on the organizational committee for the anniversary celebration. This is an important time for the city and its inhabitants, a time of memories and reflection. The main celebrations took place in the cathedral basilica in Włocławek, under the leadership of His Eminence, Fr. Archbishop Henryk Muszyński with the participation of His Eminence Fr. Wiesław Alojze Mering, bishop of Włocławski. The ceremony was accompanied by a verbal and musical editing devoted to St. John Paul II performed by students of the Catholic Schools Complex. Fr. Jan Długosz in Włocławek, an exhibition of photographs of participants of the meeting with the Holy Father and numerous competitions: literary, artistic and multimedia, popular among children, young people and teachers knowledge about the life and message of John Paul II. The 25th anniversary of the pilgrimage of the Holy Father John Paul II to free Poland was also celebrated in the Polish Parliament, where on 8 June this year. in the main lobby of the Sejm, on the initiative of Mr Czesław Sobierajski, President of the Parliamentary Group on St. John Paul's Heritages II, the exhibition was solemnly opened thank God, the spirit was not extinguished! The Polish pilgrim made a record number of apostolic trips and elevated many saints and blessed to the altars. To this day his strong sounding, significant words are ringing in our ears: "Let your Spirit descend and renew the face of the earth. This land, but also those from 1991, from a very personal emotional speech when he spoke about the responsibility and responsibilities of the compatriots towards their homeland: "This is my mother, this land! This is my mother, this country! These are my brothers and sisters! The Holy Father John Paul II was recognized as the greatest personality and undisputed authority. He could speak to people of any age, breaking down language, cultural, and even ideological barriers. He especially liked young people, and she also loved JP II. The result of this particular mutual taste is the World Youth Days. This year they will be celebrated in our homeland. The legacy of St. John Paul II, our great countryman, may it remain in our hearts and in our memory.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u487	In the substantive layer of the draft law on anti-terrorist activities, I found no record that would raise no doubt, but I will ask only three questions. 1. Doesn't the law lead to a decrease in Poland's reputation in the world through the regulations concerning foreigners? 2. A very broad definition of terrorist activities gives unlimited possibilities for banning assembly. What mechanisms, then, do the services have for democratic control of their activities in this regard? 3. Is the sole justification for eavesdropping on aliens a desire for services to ensure that they do so without permission and informing the court?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u488	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The pace of life and the daily responsibilities of a modern family make parents and children spend less and less time together. In many families, TVs and computers have replaced one of the most valuable ways to spend time reading books to children. However, despite the great progress and opportunities offered by modernity, computer and the Internet, the book remains a fundamental tool for human intellectual and emotional development, it is a carrier of cultural and scientific values. Reading as a child grows into an increasingly complex form of knowledge. The book has a rich and versatile effect on the development of the child in almost all its aspects. Reading affects not only the sensual sphere, but also helps to shape imagination, teaches new concepts, conveys knowledge about the world and people. Reading aloud makes it possible for children to learn words and words while enjoying their proper use in speech. In an age of ubiquitous image culture, the Internet falls short of the meaning of the written word, and few remember the great intellectual and spiritual value of the book. Children's Dictionary is getting poorer and therefore all actions to promote reading should be supported and promoted. Recently, in my town, Brest, there was a Grand Marathon of Reading. The first lady, Ms Agata Kornhauser-Duda, came to Brest to participate in the reading marathon organized at the Public Primary School No. Ignacy Łukasiewicz in Brest. This year, the eighth edition of the marathon was held under the slogan: "A Joyful Childhood." During this meeting, the first lady emphasized the importance of the book in the life of a young man and talked about the dangers posed by the development of electronic technologies. From this unique place, I would like to thank the first lady sincerely for honoring her presence with all the participants of the marathon and taking him under her patronage. I would like to thank the organizers of this wonderful project, wishing them all the best to celebrate the 30th anniversary of the Public Primary School No. 2 in Brest. Congratulations on your beautiful anniversary and your next great success.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u489	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today I would like to present to you on behalf of the entire community connected with football on the land of Sanok the history of the Stal Sanok football club in connection with the coming anniversary of the 70th anniversary of the Steel Uprising. On 3 July 2016, at the stadium of the City Centre for Sports and Recreation in Sanok, a ceremony is planned for the celebration of the 70th anniversary of Stali Sanok. In the jubilee celebration program, the award of the Ekoball Stal Sanok Cup to the Krosno district class, the award of former Stal Sanok players representing its colors in the second league and its long-term activists was planned. The beginnings of senior football in Sanoku date back to the Second Republic of Poland and the creation of the Senior Club for 1946. Just after the end of World War II, in August 1946 an initiative was established to set up a sports club called the Wagon Metallurgy Union Sports Club, later named: Stal Sanok. In the 1997/1998 season, the footballers of Steel won the 3rd Małopolska league and promoted to the 2nd league. This is the biggest league success in the history of Sanock football. In the 2005/2006 season, playing in the third league, the Stal team was successful in the Polish Cup. In the second round of the preliminary edition of the Polish Cup 2006/2007 15 August 2006, the footballers defeated KSZO II Ostrowiec Świętokrzyski 1:0, and on 22 August in the 1/16 finals of Polonia Bytom 2:0. On 20 September 2006 in the 1/16 final Stal defeated 2:1 Legia Warszawa, thus eliminating the current Polish champion from 2006, thus making one of the biggest soccer sensations in Poland. At the same time, it was the achievement of the 60th anniversary of the club. The team was promoted to 1/8 of the PP finals. In this round, the steelists gave in to the Ark of Gdynia 0:1, losing the goal 2 minutes before the end of the playoff. At the beginning of 2011, it revealed the growing financial problems of the club due to the withdrawal of the investor from the purchase of the club's premises at ul. The watchman's, and the years after that, they showed their growth. 30 June 2014 The Podkarpackie Football Association announced that Stal Sanok had not obtained a license to play in the new league III. At that time, the club authorities informed of their withdrawal from the competitions. MKS Stal Sanok has declared the suspension of operation and taking action towards a complete extension of the club. At the same time, he announced the transfer to the Ekoball Sanok Sport Promotion Foundation of the rights to uphold the Stali Sanok tradition - the right to use the name Steel and the use of club symbols. In the agreement of the boards of both clubs, Ekoball Sanok reported the team on the basis of the former steel players and their own pupils for A-class competitions. The authorities of Krosno OZPN under the aegis of Ekoball enabled Stal Sanok to continue senior football at the A-class level called KS Ekoball Stal Sanok. Already for six queues by the end of the season 2015/16 KS Ekoball Stal Sanok secured a promotion from first place in the class And to the Krosno district class. The goal of the club and sponsors is to move as quickly as possible to at least the third league in which Stal Sanok hosted for many years. In the main jubilee celebrations on July 3, 2016 at the stadium of the City Centre for Sports and Recreation in Sanoku, Wierchy joined with the organized football tournament announced its participation about 12 friends with the Sanock club, i.e. Resovia Rzeszów, JKS Jarosław, KSZO Ostrowiec, Polish representation in the 35+ futsal and many others. The main highlight of the event will be the opening match at hours. 12, which will be attended by the stars of Stali Sanok and players of the most popular Polish club from the USA Vistula Chicago, whose representatives come especially for these celebrations. In connection with the organization of the 70th anniversary of Stali Sanok on 3 July 2016 at the stadium of the City Centre for Sports and Recreation in Sanoku in cooperation with the City Hall in Sanoku, the Podkarpackie Football Association and other organizations, we invite all those who participated actively in the 70-year history of the club or supported the Stali Sanok at levels of various competition classes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-10-sejm-20-3.u490	High Izbo! I would like to inform you that, after consulting the Seniors Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm has decided to delete two items from the agenda: - Information on the activities of the Ombudsperson for the year 2015 together with observations on the state of compliance with the rights of the child (print No 388) together with the position of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy (print No 536) - that is the point 33. - Report by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration on the implementation in 2015 of the Law of 24 March 1920 on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners (print No 391), together with the position of the Commission for Administration and Home Affairs (print No 505) - that is point 34. We've exhausted the agenda for the Sejm meeting. This concludes the 20th session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers will be available in the Sejm Information System. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda of the 21st session of the Sejm, convened on 21, 22 and 23 June 2016, was served to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 19 min 43]]
