ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u1	I'm opening a sitting. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] Hello, all Members and invited guests. I am calling for the secretaries of today's deliberations Marcin Duszek, Krzysztof Kubow, Arkadiusz Marchewka and Krzysztof Truskolas. Marcin Duszek and Krzysztof Kubów will be members in the first part of the session. The minutes and the list of speakers will be led by Marcin Souszek and Arkadiusz Carrot. I consider the minutes of the 20th session of the Sejm to be adopted in the absence of objections. High Seym! On 16 June, there was a brutal assault - and as a result of death - on the British Member of the Chamber of Labour Municipalities, a supporter of the UK's remaining in the European Union, Mrs Jo Cox. I would like to ask Members of the European Parliament, in their opposition to this shameful act, to honor Mrs Jo Cox's memory with a moment of silence. [[The assembled rise, a moment of silence]] Thank you. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: amending the Education System Act and certain other laws, as well as on the National Media Council and amending certain laws. The reports shall be printed in 614 and 610 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The Committee on Culture and Media submitted a draft resolution on the report of the National Radio and Television Council in 2015. The project is print number 616. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this project. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Bureau of the Sejm proposes that the Sejm hear ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and five-minute statements on behalf of the circle in discussions on: - the report of the National Radio and Television Council in 2015 together with information on the fundamental problems of radio and television in 2015 and the draft resolution of the Commission, - information on the activities of the Ombudsman for 2015 and on the state of compliance with the rights of the child, - a report by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration on the implementation in 2015 of the Law of 24 March 1920 on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that the Sejm should hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle in discussions on the committee's reports on the establishment of patrons of 2017 contained in prints 480, 481, 506, 507 and 508. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle in discussions on the other items on the agenda. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The Sejm Bureau informs that information on the details of the involvement of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland in military missions to be carried out outside Poland will be discussed at the present meeting of the Sejm. The Islamic State, which was proposed by the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. The agenda items of the current sitting of the Sejm will be dealt with in accordance with the order adopted by the Sejm Bureau and the Seniors' Convention. Information on this matter, as well as the list of laws that the Senate adopted without amendments, are available in the Sejm Information System. We proceed to the examination of item 1 of the agenda: The taking of an oath by the President of the National Bank of Poland. High Izbo! At the 20th session of the Sejm, in accordance with the Rule. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 3 Constitution of the Republic of Poland and Art. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Act on the National Bank of Poland, appointed Mr Adam Glapiński as President of the National Bank of Poland. According to Art. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The 3rd Act on the National Bank of Poland, the President of the National Bank of Poland, covers bonds after the oath to the Sejm. Called President of the National Bank of Poland, Mr Adam Glapiński applied to take an oath. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to stand and Mr Adam Glapiński to take an oath. [[The Gathered Rise Up]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u2	In my duties as President of the National Bank of Poland, I solemnly swear that the provisions of the Constitution and other laws will be strictly observed and that in all my actions I will pursue the economic development of the Homeland and the well-being of citizens. So help me God. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u3	Thank you very much. I state that the President of the National Bank of Poland, Mr Adam Glapiński, made an oath to the Sejm required by the Act. Mr. President, if you see such a need, as much as possible... There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u4	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! First of all, I would like to thank the President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Duda for giving me the trust and submitting my person to the position of President of the National Bank of Poland. It's a great honor and honor for me. I thank the House for choosing this position. In particular, I would like to thank the Members of the Law and Justice Clubs, Kukiz, 15, the Polish People's Party, the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle and all other Members, other clubs and independent Members for their support for my candidacy. As President of the NBP, I will defend and uphold the independence of the central bank, which will be a fundamental principle of my business. I will guard the constitutional task of the National Bank of Poland, which is taking care of the value of Polish gold. Nor will I forget the obligation to support the government's economic policy, unless this is contrary to maintaining a stable price level, which is the core objective of the NBP. I will strive to strengthen public confidence in the central bank. I intend to work with all the authorities of the State to maintain the stability of the financial system and to address the risks arising in this system. Monetary and financial stability is key to ensuring the balance of the economy as a whole. I am convinced that maintaining stability in these areas will enable us to achieve sustainable development and economic growth and, as a result, improve the welfare of Poles. Thank you once again to the House for choosing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u5	Thank you, Mr. President. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u6	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Poselska etiquette - at 3 p.m. 9.30 a.m., - Economy and Development - at 3 p.m. 9.30 a.m., - Culture and Media - at 3 p.m. 9.30 a.m., - Agriculture and Rural Development - at 3 p.m. 9.30 a.m., - Justice and Human Rights at 3 p.m. 9.30 a.m., - Health at about an hour. 9.30 a.m., - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - at 3 p.m. 10, - for Petitions - at 3 p.m. 10, - Administration and Home Affairs - at 3 p.m. 12, - Infrastructure - at 3 p.m. 12, - Public Finance - at 3 p.m. 12, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping - at 3 p.m. 12, - to the European Union at 3 p.m. 12, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - at 3 p.m. 12, - Foreign Affairs - at 3 p.m. 12, - Education, Science and Youth - at 3 p.m. 13.30, - Economy and Development - at 3 p.m. 13.30, - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - at 3 p.m. 14, - Local Government and Regional Policy - at 3 p.m. 14, - to Energy and Treasury - at 3 p.m. 2.30 p.m., - Education, Science and Youth together with the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development - at 3 p.m. 15, - Maritime Economy and Inland Shipping together with the Committee on Public Finance - at 3 p.m. 15, - Social Policy and Family Policy - at 3 p.m. 15, - to the Secret Service at about an hour. 3.30 p.m., - to State Control at 3 p.m. 16, - to the European Union at 3 p.m. 16, - to Energy and Treasury - at 3 p.m. 4:30 p.m., - Agriculture and Rural Development together with the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry - at 3 p.m. 17, - Communication with Poles abroad together with the Committee on Culture and Media - at 3 p.m. 17, - Education, Science and Youth - at 3 p.m. 8:30. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: Patients' rights - at 3 p.m. 12, - Parliamentary Group for: Spa - at 3 p.m. 12, - Parliamentary Group for Entrepreneurship and Economic Patriotism - at 3 p.m. 14, - The envoy for the New Constitution at 3 p.m. 2.30 p.m., - Parliamentary Animal Friends Team - at 3 p.m. 3.30 p.m., - Parliamentary Group for: Supporting Youth Councils in the Units of the Territorial Self-Government - at 3 p.m. 18. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u7	Thank you, sir. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Higher Education and certain other laws (prints Nos 556 and 565). I ask Mrs Iwona Machalek to present a report to the committee. [[Michael.]] Excuse me, Mrs Iwona Michalek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u8	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present to you a report on the work of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Higher Education and some other laws, print No 556. On 24 May 2016, the project entered the Sejm. Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 On 2 June 2016, the Sejm sent the above draft law to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth for first reading. At its meeting on 9 June 2016, the Committee on Education, Science and Youth held its first reading. The position of the government was presented by the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Science and Higher Education, Mr Jarosław Gowin. 12 amendments were tabled at the committee meeting, which were accepted without objection. The whole draft law was also adopted unanimously by the committee. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to point out that the proposal concerns the reduction of the regulatory burden on public and non-public universities with bureaucratic obligations, in particular reporting and information, concerning the submission of statements and the application of complex procedures relating to the activities of universities. It proposes simplified arrangements for national qualifications frameworks. The criteria applied by the Polish Accreditation Commission in the process of assessing the quality of education will also be modified. It is proposed to simplify the rules for hiring academic teachers as visiting and extraordinary professors. A whole range of solutions also facilitates students. As an example, solutions can be identified in relation to the abolition of the obligation for applicants to submit flat-rate statements on the completion or continuation of studies in other fields. The project was created in cooperation with the Main Council of Science and Higher Education, the Conference of Rectors of Academic Schools of Poland and the Polish Accreditation Commission. The project also included a parliament of Polish students. The Commission recommends that the High House adopt a draft law amending the Law on Higher Education and certain other laws. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u9	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Please, Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Higher Education and some other laws, print No. 556. The Ministry of Science and Higher Education has analysed legislation in the field of higher education. This analysis has shown that excessive bureaucratic responsibilities do not serve the proper functioning of academic and higher education institutions. In addition, the entry into force of the new regulations implementing European Union law required the adaptation of national law and, in particular, the Law on Higher Education. The aim of the bill was therefore to re-bureaucratise the functioning of universities and align higher education law with EU law. The Act amends the Law on Higher Education... Sorry, the Act amends the Law on Student Loans and Credits, the Law on Science Degrees and Science Titles and Art Degrees and Titles, the Law on Principles of Finance for Science, the Law on Research Institutes, the Act on the Polish Academy of Sciences, the Law on Higher Education and the Act on Amendment of Certain Laws to Support Innovation. Following the entry into force of the Law of 22 December 2015 on the Integrated Qualifications System, there was a need to modify the definition of concepts: education programme, national councils, national qualifications frameworks and learning outcomes. The draft law at issue removes this inconsistency. The Senate of the University will not be obliged to determine the number of places in different directions for students wishing to study in the next direction of the public university. The Act will make it easier for universities to monitor the careers of graduates, among others. by entering into the data at the university's disposal, including e-mail addresses of graduates. The Act clarifies the provisions on the creation, liquidation and modification of the functioning of a public professional university. The Act obliges the rector to submit a statement to the POL-on Integrated Information System on Science and Higher Education confirming that the data collected for the purpose of the distribution of grants are in line with the facts. The Act clarifies the provision on the obligation to report on the implementation of the financial and in-kind plan. It does not apply to non-public universities. The Act provides the legal basis for the non-competition procedure for projects to raise the level of knowledge in higher education financed by the European Union budget. The powers of the main board shall be modified. A new regulation on the way the Polish Accreditation Board works is being introduced. The new wording is appropriate to the provisions relating to the public university convention. The numerous changes introduced by this law will simplify the functioning of universities and enable them to focus more on the level of education. During the debate in the student community committee, they reported the need for a change in the proportion between scholarships and social grants. This issue is worth considering. In view of the need to make further changes in the Law on Higher Education in the future, the Law and Justice Club supports the adoption of a draft law recommended by the committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u11	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of the Minister of Science and Higher Education, Mr Jarosław Gowin.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u12	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I am so sorry to have entered the line of Members here. I was hoping that I could speak directly after the rapporteur, but I was a little distracted. Ladies and gentlemen! We are pursuing a law that is widely expected by academics. In 2011, then in 2014, for the right reasons, I would like to stress that, with a desire to include the model of higher education in the Bologna process and to create certain objective criteria for evaluation, evaluation of universities, there have been profound changes in the law on higher education, which unfortunately resulted in a huge bureaucracy. The posture of the recuperatization of the university is commonly formulated, has a trans-political character and this was also the mode of work on this law. As Mrs Michalek mentioned, we have worked on it in close cooperation with the academic community and it has gained support, I can say that literally almost everyone, and certainly everyone, in terms of the important environments of this university ecosystem - from the student parliament to the rector conference, from the Council of Young Scientists to the Main Council of Science and Higher Education. During the first reading, a number of proposals were submitted that clarified the proposed solutions and broadened the scope of university autonomy. What I would like to say is that this is a certain idea that runs the whole project - the extension of the scope of academic freedom. Taking all this into account, the government is asking for the support of the draft contained in the report. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u13	Thank you, Minister. I would like to ask the floor of Catherine Osos, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u14	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present its position on the draft amendment to the Law on Higher Education and some other laws. This draft law certainly responds to the expectations of the academic and scientific community. Reducing the scale of bureaucratic obligations provided for in the legislation governing the higher education and science system is desirable by the scientific community. It is worth noting that in this respect the scientific community has also prepared a study on re-bureaucratisation and deregulation. The main problem identified by universities and scientific bodies is too many reporting, information and reporting obligations. The project therefore aims to reduce these burdens both for public universities and for non-public universities. These changes concern inter alia. simplification of national qualification standards, modification of the criteria applied by the Polish Accreditation Commission in the quality of education process, simplification of the rules for promotion and recruitment of teachers, reduction of the frequency of employee assessments, abolition of the requirement for students to make declarations on completion or continuation of studies in other fixed fields or to facilitate access to student loans. The proposed changes, which are worth emphasising, will not affect the proper functioning of universities, but can, on the contrary, help to focus efforts to improve the quality of education or research, and will make full use of the potential of universities' autonomy. At the same time, further deregulation and changes in this area have emerged during the first reading. We assume that this project is the first step that removes, say, obvious barriers. Further demands, as pointed out by the members of the committee or ministry, require deeper analysis and systemic solutions. We therefore hope that the Ministry will carry out its announcements on the continuation of further deregulation work. In view of the above, as the Civic Platform, we will support this project and vote in favour of it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz,15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u16	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Club15 on the government draft law amending the Law on Higher Education and some other laws. The proposed regulation only partially addresses the problems of science and education, especially education. These changes are primarily procedural and organisational. However, these are ad hoc, detailed and not systemic regulations. It is worth mentioning, however, because some of them are indeed very beneficial for the functioning of universities. First of all, attention needs to be paid to giving universities the right to set admission limits for a given academic year to those who are studying the next course. Then reduce the number of reporting reports and areas that have been reported to the Minister of Science and Higher Education so far. For a positive change it is also necessary to read the definition of a new way of acting of the Polish Accreditation Commission, which will cease to be a threat to universities or their courses, and will become a body carrying out a programme and institutional evaluation of the quality of education. This is intended to contribute to improving teaching and research carried out by universities. Undoubtedly, it is also beneficial to transfer the right to set maximum fees for recruitment procedures to the competent minister supervising the university type concerned. For so far it has often been so that some universities have made this procedure an additional serious source of income. Liberalisation of legislation allowing additional employment of academic teachers in educational establishments is also presented to facilitate the functioning of universities with a clear benefit for the latter, as well as a systemic new regulation relating to the periodic evaluation frequency of academic teachers. Standards relating to the rationalisation of doctoral studies and the improvement of the quality of those studies should also be considered as a step in the right direction, i.e. the link between the number of doctoral students studying in a given direction and the possibility of providing them with scholarships and an appropriate research workshop. The Law amending the Law on Higher Education and certain other laws was also provided by the Ministry with implementing regulations introducing certain beneficial changes in the functioning of higher education and education. One of them, with the current system of scientific promotion, is changes in the promotional process itself. However, they do not meet the basic expectations of the scientific community, especially young workers. These expectations are, above all, the abandonment of habilitation and the way in which the title profession is given. But I'm sure those who claim that celibacy is more likely to be abolished than habilitation are right. [[Applause]] Moreover, the Ministry of Science and Higher Education does not want to make a clear statement on this issue. The answer to my interpellation, in which I asked about the fate of the so-called. Slovak habilitation. The Ministry did not answer at all what would happen to those who use such titles, and it does not only matter to themselves, but also to universities and the promotional procedures of younger workers. A number of proposed deregulations are the result of a vision of science and higher education. This concerns, for example, changes to the national qualifications framework. Acceptance of the so-called "acceptance'. Unfortunately, the Bologna system imposes their existence. In this respect, the author of the law makes it clear. We hope that this will be followed by practice, i.e. rebureaucratization and resignation, among others. with monstrously extended silabuses. But there are some solutions in the bill that raise big doubts. The downside is, for example. enable the Minister of Science and Higher Education to choose outside the competition from projects and grants aimed at raising the level of knowledge in higher education. This is a seemingly appropriate solution, because in general the issue of financing and selection of grants already raises serious doubts today because of the sense of some projects undertaken, implemented and spent money on them. This remark refers to the whole grant procedures, but as an example Let us recall the grant obtained by a PhD student at the Jagiellonian University, who received over 167 thousand. PLN on a post-modernist project: Biopolitical and bioethics in Muslim countries in the Middle East. What is the significance of this grant for the development of Polish science and its innovative character, it is difficult to guess. However, in general, changes are going in the right direction. Therefore, Kukiz15 will vote in favour of the bill. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u17	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Schmidt, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u18	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! In my opinion, the project is not revolutionary, but it contains many amendments that have long been tabled by the industry. These changes have been expected for many years. They will have a positive impact on the functioning of universities, including non-public schools. The changes proposed in the Act can make work easier by reducing bureaucracy. That's why the Modern Club will support this bill. However, I will draw attention to a few points. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 48a paragraph 4 is added. The following 7 shall be defined by the Minister responsible for Higher Education by Regulation, the general criteria for programme evaluation and institutional evaluation, taking into account the need to ensure the high quality of the institution's core business, including the quality of education. Although seemingly the bill deals with the principles and procedures of supervision of the Polish Accreditation Commission for universities, it does not change anything in principle. The main point of the problem is that the Minister determines, by means of a regulation, the basic criteria and scope of programme evaluation and institutional evaluation, but does so in a general way, leaving the Polish Accreditation Commission with great freedom of action. Although the Polish Accreditation Commission determines on their basis its own more detailed assessment criteria - an annex to the statute of the Polish Commission - but still, because they are extremely general and discretionary, each visiting body interprets them in its own way. Probably some of you, as practitioners, have often encountered such a situation. The current change is cosmetic, the provision of delegation to the Regulation of criteria and scope of assessment has disappeared from the Article. 9 and appeared in the article. 48a. In addition, the catalogue of elements which the Polish Accreditation Board has in mind when assessing the quality of education has been extended. These are still very general guidelines and in no way address the issue of discretion of the various compositions of the visiting committees. This leads very often to absurd situations, when two visits to two directions of the same university evaluate in an extremely different way the common elements, e.g. a quality assurance system for education. In conclusion, the lack of specific legislative guidelines on fair, objective measurement of the quality of education in the fields makes the assessment discretionary, prevents comparability of evaluation results between universities and, unfortunately, often gives rise to pathologies in visits. I was also interested in changing the article. 100a paragraph. 3. Previously, we had a situation where a recovery programme involving actions to restore the financial balance at the university was to be implemented within a period of not more than 3 years from the date of adoption of the resolution programme. At present, the change is perhaps cosmetic, but it is not longer than the end of the year in which three years have elapsed since the adoption of the corrective programme. On the one hand, this is justified: it is difficult to define the recovery plan and its implementation in the calendar year if the financial year coincides with the calendar year. On the other hand, if the Rector drags the resolution plan until January, he has another year to implement the planned recovery plan. It is supposed to be just an additional year, but given that the Minister supervising this institution appoints for a period of not more than 3 years persons performing the duties of the rector, entrusting them with tasks relating to the development and implementation of the recovery programme, we can say that the institution generating losses as defined in Article. 100a can function under the umbrella of these regulations for up to 7 years. Art. 99. 6: information on the amount of fees for educational services is provided on the website. Information on the costs incurred to the extent necessary for the provision of educational services has been removed, which will help public institutions to finance non-stationary studies and, as a result, to use unintended grants. I would like to point out, Prime Minister, that this should be monitored so that the principles of fair competition are not distorted. The simplifications associated with employment are right and finally they are introduced. Finally, we will resolve the doubts of HR whether further competitions need to be announced for those who have reached higher scientific status. Unfortunately, the law has not raised two issues raised in years. A free-american woman who's been in labor for years makes colleges take on, how much they fly, how much they fly, how much they set limits on themselves. And so on. Everyone educates 100 managers, each university in the city educates managers, which often gives 800 and 1000 students starting in one direction. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 is replaced by the following: The public university Senate shall, by a resolution, determine the number of places in each direction. It is mentioned that it is to follow the principle of responsibility for the quality of education and to ensure that the structure of the course is compatible with the university's mission. There is nothing about conversations with the socio-economic environment, there is no obligation to adapt the offer, the number of places to forecasts on the labour market. This will be our amendment tabled to the Marshal in the minority proposal. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The last case concerns a change in the subject of doctoral studies. We are very much in favour of all the four proposals that we have worked through during the work of the committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Krystian Jarubas, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u20	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I am pleased to present my position on the government draft law amending the Law on Higher Education and some other laws, print Nos 556 and 565. Ladies and gentlemen, we are looking very closely at the amendment proposed by the PiS Government to the Law on Higher Education. And as with the PiS, maybe even at some points the diagnosis is not bad, but the prescription is written as usual carelessly, with errors. [[Maybe a different performance.]] The amendment proposed by the PiS government is intended to reduce the bureaucratic burden and reporting burden on universities and scientific entities. The modifications proposed by the Ministry of Science and Higher Education raise us, which is not surprising to us, doubts of the scientific community. In the opinions presented by the scientific community, we can read that the proposed changes, although the assumptions go in the right direction, are limited in nature and will not lead to a fundamental improvement in the current state of affairs, i.e. will not bear the negative effects of overregulation in particular as regards the control and evaluation of the quality of education and will not create the conditions for incentives to substantially simplify internal procedures at universities in order to document activities to maintain the quality of education. However, this is only the beginning, because not only is the proposed novel not going to solve problems, but it is worse - in some cases it can even deepen the existing problems of universities resulting from the overdevelopment of the central reporting system and formal requirements for ensuring and assessing the quality of education. In addition, there is a real danger of increasing bureaucratic burdens resulting from the entry into force of the Act of 22 December 2015 on the Integrated Qualifications System. It is also clear that, in the case of the proposed amendment, in particular the articles relating to changes in the functioning of the State Accreditation Board, the national qualifications framework and the legal situation of PhD students, it is impossible to fully and exhaustively evaluate them without the accompanying amendments to the draft ministerial regulations. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, We can see that this is just the beginning of the road that Minister Gowin is announcing. For now, we only hear about ideas. There are many of them, but for now they are too little concrete to be judged firmly in terms of: good, bad. At present, they remain at the consultation stage and are therefore, of necessity, quite general. It is good that representatives of the Ministry meet with representatives of the academic community, among others. Members of the Parliament of Students of the Republic of Poland. We hope that these are not just courtesy meetings, and that the conclusions drawn from them will be taken into account by the resort, of course, in the future, because today we do not see specifics. In this respect, the parliamentary club, with this in mind and hoping that these proposals will be constructive, and the idea of this law will be good, will support this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Good.]] [[Very nice.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u21	Thank you. Małgorzata Zwierzan, near Free and Solidarnia, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u22	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the government draft law amending the Law on Higher Education and some other laws. A government draft law could best be described as simplifying and harmonising the Law on Higher Education. So far, there have been a number of provisions that have not been real regulation but only resulted in an increase in the bureaucratic machine. Therefore, the proposed changes seem reasonable and effective in reducing bureaucracy at universities. The new regulations apply not only to the administration of universities but also to their employees and students. It is they who, in my opinion, will feel the most changes for the better. I believe that the most important changes are the regulation of greater access for students to social scholarships and the fact that the rectors will also be able to grant scholarships to first-year students when they are finalists or winners of the Olympic Games. In terms of scholarships, it is also important to note the change concerning young researchers who, together with the new rules, are exempted from the need to settle scholarships. This investment in the development of young people and science at the same time is extremely valuable. A positive change is certainly the regulation of the procedure for the employment of the same academic after his promotion and his failure to join the unnecessary competition procedure. In turn, the non-limitation of places at universities for students taking the second direction, as well as the possibility of contact with students by e-mail will contribute to better relations at the level of the student - university. In today's world, the limitations of the previous law on this matter seem to be anachronistic. Special attention should be paid to the issue of administrative changes in the new law of the concept of the Polish Accreditation Commission. So far, it has had a very significant impact on the evaluation of universities, but above all it has significantly reduced higher education institutions in the formulation of programmes, exemplary educational outcomes. In this respect, universities will be given greater freedom. Most of the changes will be made at the beginning of the new academic year, i.e. from 1 October 2016. The Free and Solidarni Circle will support the procedated draft law on amending the Law on Higher Education and some other laws. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u23	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to speak, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Mrs Marzena Machalek, Law and Justice have the floor. Question time - 1.5 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u24	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Already from the discussions and positions of parliamentary clubs, it appears that changes in higher education law by the Ministry prepared by the government are needed and expected by the environment. I will now move on to one very specific amendment, which concerns the article. 40c. This article gives the Minister the legal basis for non-competition projects to be carried out by him. This may be debatable, of course. That is why I ask: What is the purpose of the proposed amendment? In what cases will this mode be able to be used? And the last question is: How will the use of this mode, and I am convinced that it will do so, improve the quality of higher education and really reduce red tape? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u25	Thank you. Mrs Anna Cicholska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u26	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! Minister! High Izbo! Art. Article 118a (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iii) (iii) 1 The Law on Higher Education raises a number of The Act obliges here to conduct an open competition. The competition is also often used in the case of so-called. job promotion, which doesn't always seem justified. What changes are therefore planned in this regard? Whether non-competition mode will be possible in the case of so-called. A job promotion? If so, in what cases? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u27	Thank you. Mrs Iwona Michalek, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u28	Minister! High Izbo! Getting a social scholarship is often a necessary condition for a young, ambitious man whose family is unable to give him enough to satisfy his most urgent needs during his studies. What changes are proposed to increase the number of beneficiaries of this scholarship? What will make it easier for young people here? And I also want to ask you about scholarships. They are also an important motivator for work. Students feel appreciated that their efforts are appreciated. Therefore, the question is: From what year of study can you get a scholarship? Is this possible as early as your first year? If so, what kind of young man must meet the conditions to receive this scholarship? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u29	Thank you very much. Mrs Krystyna Wróblewska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u30	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Designed changes are designed to re-bureaucratize universities. In particular, it should be noted that the projector removes a number of reporting obligations from non-public universities. What changes do you plan to make in this regard? Will non-public universities be exempted from reporting at all? If so, where and how will a potential student of such a university be able to obtain information about this university? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u31	Thank you. Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u32	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! High Izbo! The Minister responsible for higher education by means of a regulation shall fix the maximum fee for admission. From the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber of 16 May this year. We know that the recruitment fee is often overpaid by universities in an unauthorized manner. The Supreme Audit Chamber asked the Ministry of Science and Higher Education to establish a framework list of the necessary elements to be taken into account when setting the fees for admission proceedings. In connection with this situation, I have a question: How does the Ministry plan to counter such practices applied by universities, over-recruitment fees? Is it planned to resolve this problem by means of the provisions of the amended law? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u33	Thank you. Mrs Lidia Burzyńska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u34	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Sometimes universities are obliged to develop and implement corrective plans to improve the quality of education. Often these programs were created only on paper and, unfortunately, their effectiveness in this case is small or negligible. Will the proposed amendments increase the effectiveness of the corrective programmes? Who and how will assess the value of the corrective programme introduced? What changes do you propose in this regard? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u35	Thank you. Ms Agata Borowiec, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u36	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! One of the factors influencing the quality of Polish science is the rational determination of the number of PhD students and the creation of a number of PhD students of such conditions, in which they will have the opportunity to better concentrate on studying. Hence my questions. What legal regulations does the Ministry propose to increase the number of doctoral students and the quality of doctoral studies and, second question, what recommendations of the Supreme Audit Chamber in this area have been taken into account in the proposed amendment? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u37	Thank you. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u38	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Referring to the debate that took place at the first reading of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth, I must say that the amendment tabled by your Prime Minister raised mostly the very positive opinions of both the academic community and the doctoral community, the student community, and indeed it is going in the right direction. So, as Mrs Osos representing the Civic Platform follows, I would like to say that without a doubt I am ready to vote on this amendment. However, I would like to draw the Prime Minister's attention while asking if you are aware of this, to an area which is not covered by the amendment and which raises some concerns in the scientific, academic community. It involves the entry into force from 1 January next year, 2017, new rules of calculation, evaluation of the university's scientific achievements, i.e. the so-called. parameterization. These are new rules that have been introduced, according to many researchers, too late. The new rules are disrupting the existing system, and existing bases such as PBN and POL-on raise doubts about their compatibility with the so-called. a parametric survey. I would like to draw the Prime Minister's attention to this problem and ask for information on whether awareness of it [[♪ The bell ♪]] There's a problem in the ministry and in the team you're running. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u39	Thank you. Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u40	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! Higher education institutions should monitor the careers of their graduates. Until now, they have done so inadequately. Given that knowledge of the achievements of graduates can have a huge impact on the planning of new directions and the modification of programmes of courses already in existence, it is important that universities maintain continuous monitoring of the achievements of graduates. Prime Minister, will the proposed changes make it easier for universities to continuously monitor the professional fate of their graduates? I think this is very important because the labour market is extremely dynamic at the moment, and the idea is that those directions that are proposed today by universities should be compatible with the labour market. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u41	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Adam Wozniak, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u42	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! At present, the revised Higher Education Act is very expected by the academic community and has not been noticed by previous governments. These deregulations will allow, as the previous speakers said here, to simplify procedures, to reduce bureaucracy, which will also help students. As representatives of parliamentary clubs have noted, these are changes in the right direction and expected for many years. I have two questions for the Minister. First: What further developments in higher education will be proposed by the Ministry in the near future, changes that will further simplify the functioning of universities and help students? Second: Do you plan to make changes in the recruitment of students to higher education institutions so that they can keep up with the labour market? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u43	Thank you. Mr Aleksander Anczynski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u44	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! The Polish Accreditation Commission is a very important body for improving the quality of education in all public and non-public universities. It is carried out, among others. programme and institutional evaluations. Prime Minister, two questions. First: What tasks does the Polish Accreditation Commission put before this amended act? The second question is: What competences will be retained and what will be the responsibility of the Minister responsible for Foreign Affairs. Higher education? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u45	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education, Mrs Teresa Czerwinska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u46	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I answer the questions you, ladies and gentlemen, have asked. The first question concerns Article. 40c and introducing the possibility of financing projects in a competitive manner. I would like to clarify that this change in the proposed project concerns the possibility of financing various types of projects and programmes from so-called. The POWER programme, i.e. it creates the legal basis for mobilising European funds from this source. Hence, we have introduced an opportunity for the Minister of Science and Higher Education to act to raise the level of knowledge in education and to finance outside the competition. Mrs Cicholska's second question concerns Article. 118a, in which we propose the possibility of establishing an employment relationship with an academic teacher at the university, for a fixed or indefinite period, by means of an open competition. Well, what I'm saying is that when it comes to competitions at universities, you can actually distinguish between two situations. The first situation is when an academic teacher first establishes a job relationship such as that indicated - more than half of the full-time working time. At that time, of course, the aim of the open competition is to obtain the best employee, as well as to obtain people with a lot of experience, very large scientific achievements both in the country and abroad. The second situation, however, is so-called. promotion of a position, i.e. when we are dealing with the acquisition by employees of further degrees or a degree in science, i.e. when the master defends his doctoral work and we would like him to be employed by means of a post promotion as an assistant; the same way if the doctor obtains a degree of doctor's habilitation, then there is also the possibility of promotion of a post, higher, i.e. For an extraordinary professor at the university. This amendment aims to facilitate the procedure of the promotion of posts. There is the possibility to withdraw from the competition, because these promotions are a natural way for academics to go through different levels of career not only scientific but also post. In answer to Mrs Michalek's question about scholarships for young, distinguished people who start their studies - that is, in the project we have submitted, it is possible to involve students in this scholarship mechanism from the first year. So far, I would like to remind you that a scholarship has been possible, as the name suggests, for achievements in science, but only since the second year, after fulfilling the conditions for most of the average of studies or additional achievements. At the moment, however, we are offering these young people a scholarship from their first year. The Member asks on what basis. Well, on the basis that this young man is usually the finalist of the Olympics, that's the outstanding person whose achievements, you can call it, we can judge on the basis of just participating in the Olympics. I don't think it's necessary to explain that this is the most beneficial change for those young, distinguished people who are just on the academic path. In answer to Mrs Wróblewska's next question, what changes we are making when it comes to information about non-public universities, I would like to say that, of course, information on non-public universities is available, apart from websites, in the information system, i.e. in the so-called. POL-on system. On the other hand, the introduction of regulations or proposals on the provision of information on websites as a rule in my opinion creates the possibility of transparency of universities, i.e. what we make publicly available, is as accessible to both students and employees as possible and serves universal information. As regards fees - answering another question, namely recruitment fees, maximum fee - and reference to the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber, where the issue of maximum fees for recruitment was raised, it must be said that at the moment there is a regulation in force which determines the level of the recruitment fee at a minimum of 85 PLN and according to our analysis, according to our diagnosis about 98% the university collects this lowest fee. On the other hand, with regard to what was presented in the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber, i.e. the practices of some universities which charged in excess, using the fact that the maximum charge could be PLN 150, of course we are taking steps in this direction to look at these practices. However, it seems pointless to adjust the deregulation act of the directory of activities for which the university may charge a fee. However, the recruitment process, with the whole seriousness of treating this process, is not such a complex process that we will introduce for the whole directory of activities how much fees can be charged for each activity. So in this respect, we have deviated from clarification, from regulation. On the other hand, when it comes to the question of the corrective programmes, which is how effective it will be, does this regulation, which is proposed here, increase the effectiveness of the corrective programmes? I would like to say that first of all, these changes that have been introduced, namely the recovery programme, which includes measures to restore financial equilibrium by balancing business costs with revenue over a period not longer than the end of the year in which three years have elapsed since the resolution programme was adopted, are aimed at, in a sense, more control or monitoring in a given calendar year, because in the case of university financing, we move not in an academic year but in calendar years, i.e. in budgetary years. As a result, universities account for whether they receive grants not for academic years, but for calendar years. This amendment aims to make it more consistent so that it cannot be interpreted that the university has until the end of the academic year, only until the end of the calendar year, that is, according to the budget cycle in which we move when it comes to university funding. Can these programmes be monitored more effectively through regulation, or will they be more effective? At the moment, regulations in case of failure to achieve the results of the corrective programmes allow for the introduction of a representative of the rector by the Minister responsible for Science and Higher Education, who is going to proceed, can be said to repair such an institution or try to improve its financial condition, and therefore no additional regulations or adjustments have been introduced. The existing regulations allow for this type of monitoring. And the effect added to this regulation is the fact that if in the last year of implementation of the resolution programme we observe that the university does not achieve these results, it will be possible to introduce a representative of the rector without serving another resolution programme, i.e. without the 7-year period mentioned here. It will therefore be possible to intervene more quickly. At the moment we were dealing with, you can say, a loophole that allowed us to run further repair programs. By clarifying, not introducing new regulations, but clarifying existing ones, we have the opportunity to intervene once the first resolution programme has been completed so that the financial situation of the university does not deteriorate. So in our assessment, it will be more effective supervision in terms of condition in terms of shaping the financial condition of the university. In answer to Mrs Borowiec's question about PhD students, increasing the number of PhD students and, at the same time, improving the quality of doctoral studies, I will say yes. Our proposal goes towards the so-called. university ties to a doctoral student by providing 50% PhD students. It is in the opinion not only of the Ministry, but also in the opinion of the National Representation of PhD Students, as well as in the opinion of the academic community that it should contribute to improving the quality of doctoral studies, because the university, when selecting PhD students, will conduct this selection process in a more reliable, more project-oriented way. So we will most likely be watching the improvement of quality. Will there be an increase in the number of participants in doctoral studies? This deregulation does not provide for this, although there is no obstacle for each university to accept the number of PhD students needed in its assessment to carry out its research. It is in this way that the university should shape the number of students in the doctoral study, i.e. in connection with its scientific and research activities, not in isolation from this activity. As regards Mrs April's question about monitoring the fate of graduates, I would like to stress that in this deregulation we are introducing a small modification concerning monitoring the fate of graduates through the legal possibility for universities to archive, collect e-mail addresses. At the moment, this legal basis has not been available, so universities have often pointed out that they are losing or are likely to lose contact with graduates, because graduates are now increasingly mobile and the address of the check-in that they give at the university does not indicate anything. Often it is the address of the check-in with the parents, and the young person who has graduated is long gone somewhere else, works somewhere else and develops somewhere else. The e-mail address gives you the opportunity to maintain a wider or more permanent contact with the graduate, because it does not change as much as the check-in address. This is such a slight change, although it is important, also in the opinion of the university. And the second thing is so-called. ELA, an electronic system for monitoring the fate of graduates, which was launched this year. This is an important tool to monitor the fate of graduates and, in connection with the question made by the Member, among others. linking the fate of the graduate with the study programmes, with how they effectively educate the quality of education that universities have. This is what this electronic system is supposed to be for. Of course, this is the first year of operation of this system. As time passes, data from this system will become more comprehensive and more reliable, so we will be gaining longer and longer time series, and it will become a very objective tool to give universities guidance on the study programme and on the quality of education through this feedback from the labour market. With regard to Mr Wozniak's question about the direction of changes in education, the direction in which this will go, i.e. what expectations are in relation to universities, I would like to say that at the moment a competition has been decided for the founding of the Higher Education Act, i.e. the so-called. Law 2.0. Therefore, we are in the process, we are waiting for the results of the three teams that won this competition, and certainly the results of these teams will allow us to integrate the environment's expectations more widely in the shaping of modern higher education in Poland as well as in the directions for the development of science, which will be incorporated into the final shape of the law. As far as the question by Mr Anczynski concerning the PKA is concerned, I would like to say that the changes that we have proposed in the project are clearly moving towards release - it can be said - the PKA from what is alleged, i.e. that it is a very rigid, very formal assessment, often, as you said, very subjective, and thus one which does not fulfil its role. Where we could, we proposed in this deregulation that the assessment of the PKA should be an assessment of the quality of education, but not a strict assessment. meeting individual formal conditions for conducting studies. Such conditions for conducting studies, meeting minimum requirements e.g. We can check for ourselves because we have such information in the POL-on system. Therefore, there is no need for the PKA to be the body that will carry out these assessments, while it will focus on quality assessment of education. Of course, I agree that it is very difficult to carry out an assessment of the quality of education in a reliable, reliable, transparent and comparable manner. This is indeed a major challenge, and the PKA will be working on it under the direction of the new President, Professor Diks, at the moment. What will the Minister's competence in the evaluation of universities be? This is what I mentioned, which is to carry out this assessment - I would call it - institutional and formal, that is, whether the university meets the requirements to conduct a specific course of study, or whether it meets the minimum staff I have already mentioned. So this is the assessment that can and should be carried out by the Minister, and as far as the other parameters are concerned, i.e. programmes, education, quality, this is the part that the PKA, the accreditation committee, should take care of. I hope I answered all the questions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u47	Thank you, Minister. Please take the floor of the Minister of Science and Higher Education, Prime Minister Jarosław Gowin.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u48	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister Czerwińska has addressed almost all questions in a very competent, comprehensive manner. I only reserved the answer to one of them for myself, because it was addressed directly to me, it went beyond the matter we are talking about, but it was a very important issue. I mean Mr Protasiewicz's question. The fact is that we should not change the terms of the game, and we remembered this principle when we were preparing new regulations on accreditation and parameterization rules. Therefore, the changes we have introduced are of a deregulation character, first, that is, this part should not cause any controversy at universities, and secondly, are the nature of changes that are actually undisputedly relevant to the direction. What do I mean? Firstly, taking into account the importance of the expert factor. So far, the parameterization was 100% algorithmic. However, we believe that in the case of scientific units that aspire to category A+, it is not enough to rely on dry algorithmic data. In the case of such units, an expert visit is needed to assess whether an individual is truly outstanding. It seems that this solution should not raise concerns from the academic community, although I acknowledge to you that any changes made six months before the parameterization cause interest and, in some cases, some concern. The second factor we added is to take account of the number of economic implementations. What is one of the most important tasks facing the academic community, to say the least, before science, is proper cooperation with the economy. Until now, this factor has not been taken into account in the rules of categorization. We have decided to introduce this factor now. This does not seem to in any way privileged or discriminate against individual universities. I would also like to say that we are beginning to work on new rules of categorization, which will apply in the years 2017 and 2021. Here we will actually try to develop these new principles accordingly earlier, at the very beginning of this period, and as in the case of the deregulation law in the broadest possible agreement, dialogue with the academic community. The Minister mentioned the opening of a new law on higher education. I would add that there is also work on the organization next year of the National Science Congress. Even then, in September 2017, the new rules of categorization should be known to the academic community and they will apply, hopefully, throughout this period until 2021. So that, in understanding the importance of the matter raised by your Member and in understanding some concern, I would like to reassure you that we have tried to stick as closely as possible to the principles of good legislation, i.e. that rule so as not to change the rules of the game during the competition. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u49	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of the rapporteur of the committee, Mrs Iwona Michalek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u50	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! Thank you very much for the questions, for the very factual answer of the Minister, the Prime Minister... [[The messengers, too.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u51	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm ordering a three-minute recess. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 10 mins 23 hours 10 min 29]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the system of education and certain other laws (prints Nos 559 and 614). I would like to ask Mrs Marzena Machalek to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u52	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Education, Science and Youth, print no. 614, on the government bill amending the Act on the Education System and some other laws from print No. 559. This project was addressed by the Sejm at its 20th meeting on 8 June 2016 to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth for consideration. The Commission has examined this project. She considered him at two meetings: 10 and 15 June 2016. 17 amendments were tabled to the draft, 14 amendments were accepted by the committee. In addition, amendments of a purely editorial and legislative nature have been tabled. A few words about the project itself, because I think it's worth mentioning. Firstly, the project assumes that from the 2016/2017 school year in the sixth grade of the primary school the examination as a compulsory external examination. Secondly, a very expected change, the bill provides for, among others. the establishment of an independent College of Examination Arbitrations operating at the Director of the Central Examination Commission, whose task will be to examine appeals against the decision of the District Examination Board Director. According to the project presented today from the current school year 2015/2016, people who have taken the exam and the exam confirming qualifications in the profession will be able to photograph their examination work during the examination. The provisions introduced also highlight the impartiality of the evaluation of the examination work in the event of a request for verification of the evaluation of the work. Therefore, the records of this project require the district director of the examination commission to identify an examiner other than the one who checked and evaluated the examination work. Thirdly, the proposal contains a very large part of the provisions clarifying the award of grants. Clarification and harmonisation of grant rules was very necessary, as many of them raised interpretational doubts. The proposal therefore clarifies the existing provisions, which will allow for more accurate and fair grant. The project sets out and sets out and clarifies the provisions on the provision of textbooks and educational material to pupils at different stages of education, to pupils in general schools, but it is also important to lean on the disabled student, who will also be able to use different types of educational material. One of the changes that were made to the committee... One more thing. The project also includes changes in artistic education. Since 1 September 2018, it has been establishing the extinction of librarian schools and cultural animators. This is due to the fact that the librarian and cultural animator, according to the Ministry, but also in the opinion of the committee, should be provided in the framework of higher education. In addition, the parliamentary amendments to the draft they introduce seek to strike a balance between the competences of the leading and supervisory authorities in education. This concerns the assessment of school organisational sheets, the holding of competitions for the head of the school, as well as matters relating to the evaluation of the director's or educational institution's work. The project in this shape strengthens the role of parents, pedagogical board and trade unions. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The amendment meets social expectations, is extremely necessary and important, substantively justified. The Commission is asking the Sejm to adopt this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u53	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Dariusz Piontkowski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u54	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The law we are talking about really clarifies many concepts. Because although the law on the education system is one of the most extensive laws that we are dealing with, it turns out that many records are still unclear and there are also repeated omissions. Mrs Machalek has already mentioned issues related to the abolition of tests after the sixth grade of primary school, which did not really bring anything except additional stress for children and additional financial expenditure, as well as the issue of appeals against high school, middle school or vocational examinations. However, most of the provisions of the Act that we are discussing today concern the clarification of deadlines, especially those relating to co-financing. These issues have often raised doubts, caused many court trials, confusion about how a high grant should include non-public schools, both general education, pre-school education and artistic schools, because this law also covers such schools. Several amendments were tabled during the work, as Mrs Machalek mentioned. However, it turns out that some things still need to be clarified. Hence, the Law and Justice Club makes five more amendments to this bill. The first one concerns Article. 1, amendments 6 and applies to artistic schools. We want to adapt the conditions for obtaining public schools' rights by non-public artistic schools to the specifics of these schools. We want, among other things, to. the implementation of the classes was carried out in accordance with the framework curriculum which applies to public artistic schools of a given type. The admission of candidates should also take into account a test of skills, predispositions or professional skills, because it is a specific type of school, so that children and young people who are actually gifted can be found there. This amendment also allows for a change in school statutes, which will introduce these additional rules of recruitment into the statutes of non-public schools. Amendment 2 to Article. 1 in Amendment 24. - it will enable recruitment in a newly created kindergarten or other form of preschool education created by another body, a legal person than local self-government units. So far, it has not been very clear how this school or kindergarten could be established, nor is it clear who should be the director of the newly established kindergarten. Amendment 3. to Article. 1, Amendment 31c - this is an amendment that clarifies which trade union organisations have the right to delegate representatives to the competition committees electing the head of the school. Turns out the previous definition wasn't entirely sure. Trade unions have made some comments. In order to ensure that there is no doubt that these provisions need to be clarified again, we propose an amendment which will eventually clarify this issue. Amendment 4. to Article. 1, Amendment 37. - this is a clarification of the rules and a clear determination of the equivalence of the certificates proving that pupils have achieved the learning outcomes set out in the general education and arts curriculum. This change will allow the Minister of Culture and National Heritage to prepare a model certificate which will confirm the achievement of an appropriate stage of general education by artistic school pupils. It had to be written by hand so far. We don't see the need for each school to do it separately. Today, the Minister has the right to settle this issue calmly. And the last amendment, transitional, concerns the organisational sheets. The bill changes, as we said, the education curator's powers. It allows him to evaluate the school organizational sheets. However, since the organisational sheets for 2016/2017 have already been approved in practice, as this was done by the end of May, a transitional clause is needed, which clearly states that this probation officer's right has only appeared since September next year. We hope that these amendments, which I make on behalf of the club, will allow us to clarify the definitions and terms used in the law and will cause much less doubt for the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u55	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Elżbieta Gapinska, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u56	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the PO Club, I would like to refer to the draft amendment to the Act on the Education System. The project, which is included in print No 559 and which entered the Sejm on 2 June, has little to do with the current project under the parliamentary amendments of the Members of the PIS. This is another example of how you treat local governments, how you treat the Polish state - as a private, orwellian farm - how you finally treat Polish education. I would like to remind you that at first reading we had a lot of doubts about mainly two records of the submission, i.e. a test after the sixth grade and the time that was needed in your record for an effective reference to the College of Examination Arbitration, and which, according to our opinion, is too long to qualify effectively in the recruitment process for the dreamed studies. However, our amendment on this subject, which reduces time to 7 days, was rejected by the votes of the PiS Members at first reading in committee. I would like to remind you that during the first reading in the committee, the PiS Members presented a whole package of amendments which go beyond the scope of the amendment. And that is not only our opinion, but also the opinion of the Legal Office of the Sejm. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, you are overturning all the provisions concerning the influence of self-government on the functioning of education, unceremoniously taking competence from local governments by giving them responsibilities, and in addition you are doing so without any consultation with local authorities. Why are you doing all this? First of all, because you want to destroy self-government, which means nothing to you, because you love centralizing and managing everything from the back seat of the president. And secondly, you want to politicize schools, you want to decide who will be the principal of the school, and even approve the school's organizational sheet. [[What's the Platform been doing all this time?]] You made such a mess that you didn't even understand yourselves, you had to make an adjustment today to sort it out, because your original submission was to approve the organizational sheets even for next school year. Nothing matters to you but absolute power. But you're gonna want to politicize the Polish school? [[Voice from the room: About education.]] Think about it. Don't go that way. During the follow-up to the first reading after the break ordered by the chairman of the committee, a representative of the Polish Districts Association, who had the opportunity to read your amendments through this break, had a negative opinion on the amendments, and I quote: due to the fundamental aspects of the limitation of local government in its statutory competences. This means distrust of local government and an attempt to marginalise the role of leading bodies. Now we all know why you wanted to paralyze the Constitutional Tribunal. On behalf of the PO Club, I submit a motion to reject the draft law in its entirety and amendments. Thank you very much. [[It is a pity, Madame, that you do not want to give seniors a chance to check the results they have obtained.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u57	Thank you. Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz,15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u58	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I present the position of the Kukiz Club15 on the Government's draft law amending the Education System Act and some other laws, print No. 559. The course of the legislative process, the parliamentary discussion and the committee meetings, including representatives of different educational and local backgrounds - contrary to what Mrs Gapińska says - show that the regulations proposed in the government's draft law are generally assessed positively. The Kukiz Club15 maintains its position expressed in the speeches of its representatives at first reading in relation to the important issues of the regulation submitted, i.e. in matters such as the elimination of a test after the sixth grade, while not providing that any of its central substitutes should be introduced for diagnostic purposes or for any other purpose; enabling seniors to fully control the process of checking and evaluating their written work, including the possibility of photographing and taking notes. In today's speech, I would like to focus on other positive elements of the proposed solutions. We positively assess the criteria for the selection of arbitrators for appeals in the field of prom exams and qualifications, in particular those relating to their competence in the field of information and communication technology. This is undoubtedly also an argument regarding the proper preparation of teachers' candidates in the pedagogical fields of universities. It is necessary to clarify the rules for external examinations, including the determination of the amount and purpose of the fees paid for them. The creation of regulations to ensure that pupils with disabilities have access to appropriate teaching measures, including those who have received a decision on the need for special education after the beginning of the school year, should be welcomed. We have a good assessment of the extension of the group of entities confirming the competence of persons applying for inclusion in the list of experts in teaching materials for special education to include non-governmental organisations engaged in scientific and educational activities for the benefit of persons with disabilities. In today's reality, many of them have such experience, which is undoubtedly lacking for the theorists of this problem. Enough to mention in this case the Anna Smoke Foundation Despite everything or the Foundation them. Albert's brother from Radwanowice Fr. Tadeusz Isakowicz-Zaleski. We also accept the clarification of the rules of recruitment procedures and the responsibility for them of the bodies running educational establishments, including their right to decide on time limits in this regard. We welcome the facilitation of the organisation of education for children coming from abroad, including providing them with additional free Polish language learning, the possibility of choosing a school outside the area of residence, taking into account the need to adapt the education process to their educational needs. This is a good step, maybe small, but allowing the influx of Polish children into Poland. It should also be considered a good solution to increase the powers of pedagogical supervision in assessing the work of school heads and managers. School heads have been hostages to local government units so far. How great, can the example from the Wadowice middle school, to which at the so-called. The director's invitation came to the Mayor of Wadowice and conducted workshops for students from democracy and how she looks today in the city and in Poland. And he concluded his brief entry with a mocking invitation, referring to the deep thought of John Paul II: We invite more volunteers. Do not be afraid! The director invited the mayor, and this one tortured young people with his vision of democracy. Next case. We believe that it is also strongly important to assess the increase in the number of parents' board representatives in the competition committees, while at the same time ensuring the leading position of the institution's body and its pedagogical supervisor. After all, the school serves students, children, and then their parents, not authorities or local government units. However, there are some controversial provisions in the proposed regulation. This is, for example, the provision concerning the conditions for obtaining the status of public school by non-public artistic schools in relation to the age criterion of candidates for them. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Please? [[Voice from the room: We're listening.]] Nevertheless, Kukiz15 will vote in favour of the bill presented by the government. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u59	Thank you very much. Katarzyna Lubnauer, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! The draft law on amending the Education System Act covers several elements, while I would like to concentrate on three. The first element is the issue of sixth grade exams. Much is said in the project and the justification for the shortcomings of this system. There's talk of stress on children, there's talk of cost. On the other hand, I would like to draw attention to two aspects that speak about the positive importance of the sixth grade test. First, the sixth grade test is one of the basic elements of the so-called. an educational value-added system. This system financed to a large extent by the European Union should operate, in accordance with all agreements, at least by 2020. At a time when we're actually throwing away the essential part of it, which is the sixth grade exam, we're practically preventing a real grade of junior high school. While it is true that partial examinations are organised at the middle school level - but internal, for some young people - there can be doubts as to whether this type of test will replace the sixth grade test. Of course, the sixth grade test should change. Its main drawback was the time limit, too early, practically taking 2 hours of school work, 2 months of school work, because then, after the exam very often nothing happened at school. It's stress for young people, for children who thought that their recruitment to middle school depends to a large extent on this test. Sometimes she did, and she shouldn't, because it's too early for segregation. It is also a matter of the fact that it should actually be a school exam, not a student exam. This should be an examination which gives specific knowledge to teachers and which gives the possibility to evaluate institutions by pedagogical supervision, by local government units. Therefore, we believe that it is a mistake to abandon this sixth-grade test, which may additionally cost us when it comes to returning funds to the European Union. The second point is the question of prom exams. Here the change is for good because we actually give young people a real chance to appeal against the result of the exam, the possibility to review the work, the possibility to take a photo. This type of solution has so far been lacking. In fact, often the same committee was able on the one hand to lower, raise points for one task and lower for the other. Recently, attempts have been made to counteract this, but these solutions were not sufficient. Unequal treatment in different committees. It was all to be sorted out. In fact, this bill is tidying it up. Also, to some extent, the law arranges the issue of subsidies for institutions, for non-public educational establishments, but in fact we will be able to talk about its effects only for some time, because there are doubts, however, that at certain times it will not turn out that someone will pay for these changes: school or local government. There are certain things out there that are underprecise and that raise a number of doubts. But in fact, we will be able to allow ourselves to be evaluated about a year after its operation. On the other hand, there is something in this law that does not allow us to support it in any way: the fact that, in a non-constitutional manner which does not comply with the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, amendments have been tabled during the committee's deliberations which go beyond the scope of this law. It is not only that they go beyond the scope of this law, but also significantly restrict the powers of local authorities to influence e.g. for the selection of school heads, and also require that all school worksheets be evaluated by the curator. These changes are a typical symptom of the desire of Law and Justice to centralize everything that can be centralised, in particular to deprive local governments of further powers. It can be assumed that this is a policy, that this is a political decision, but even when it comes to political decisions of this type of change, it is necessary to carry out at the stage of drafting a law in which it is consulted when local authorities can respond to these changes. This bill, I'll remind you, was created in March and was in the ministry for several months. It is completely incomprehensible why such changes were not allowed to give an opinion to local governments, why they were added in an unconstitutional manner. It is just as outrageous to hear Marshal Terlecki's comment, which referred to this by holding a committee meeting, that, of course, these changes could reject the Constitutional Tribunal as being carried out in an unconstitutional manner, but it would have to function. This is best reflected in the state's approach to the law. Because of these amendments, the Modern will certainly vote against this law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u61	Thank you. Mr Krystian Jarubas, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u62	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I am pleased to present my position towards the government draft law amending the Act on the Education System and some other laws, print Nos 559 and 614. Ladies and gentlemen! The government project, whose first reading was carried out in the Sejm already traditionally at night, assumes the elimination of a mandatory test for sixth graders. PiS says he listens to citizens. It's a good thing citizens listen and don't fall for it either. They perfectly see that the changes proposed by the resort are apparent changes, because what else to call a change of name from the exam to the test, and it's still a diagnostic test. Cosmetics, and that's with a wire brush. That's the way the PiS government works every step of the way. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] The PiS claims that the amendment is to bring order, but instead it can bring chaos, because its records are vague and raise many doubts. According to the Ministry, the current test is unnecessarily burdensome for students and schools. [[Voice from the room: It's true.]] This is a general statement, but the novel, when we go into details, does not specify, for example, how schools are to deal with students living outside the middle school area. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, there are cases where exam points are used as a criterion. These cases relate to students outside the area. I make this argument because it's amazing what the Minister's response to one of the newspapers said. Asked about students outside the area, she said that schools should be able to cope. The question arises as to whether it is merely about taking responsibility for the exam from the curatoria and placing this responsibility on the school heads. Another issue is the pace of the proposed work. Such changes should be introduced gradually, testing them in selected facilities, drawing conclusions, not on a cape, as this is happening. The pace of work and the appearance of the proposed change in this area again raise another key question: Is this a foretaste of the fact that PiS wants to eliminate middle school? If so, this is another proof of how PiS changes its mind in many cases. Let us remember that many Members of the PiS against middle school today voted in favour of the reform under which the middle school was founded. Ladies and gentlemen! The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party will be against the proposed changes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Ooh, that's not good.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u63	Thank you. Małgorzata Zwierzan, near Free and Solidarnia, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u64	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the system of education and certain other laws. The revised draft law was clarified as a result of changes made during the meeting of the Education, Science and Youth Committee. As I mentioned in my first reading, this project deserves not only attention, but also praise, above all, for issues relating to Matura and exams confirming qualifications in the profession. The bill's amendment regulates the basic rights of pupils as members of an adult society. The draft law includes the lodging of appeals against the results of the Matura and the vocational examination in the written part. The Act will establish the College of Examination Arbitration, which will deal with the concerns of graduates of upper secondary education as regards the results of external examinations, and will include experienced examiners and experts from the world of science. This is a solution that gives students a sense of security and confidence in a fair assessment, which already gives young people a guarantee that we are living in a state of law. The draft law also abolishes the test carried out during the last year of primary school education, regulates recruitment for kindergartens, schools and educational establishments, and clarifies the provisions governing the registration of non-public schools. It is also a long-awaited regulation, and it is good that it will come into force soon. I also wanted to emphasise the fact that the law in its broad formula will change the rights of disabled students. In line with the amendment of the Act, they are not only provided with textbooks and educational aids, but also with the purchase of appropriate aid equipment in daily education. This is a very necessary solution and I hope that it will contribute to a better, faster integration experienced by young people with fully functioning peers. In the context of the provisions proposed by the Act, I must admit that these changes in my opinion will improve the education system and lead to a better functioning of the system. The Free and Solidarni Circle will vote in favour of the government bill amending the Education System Act and some other laws. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u65	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to speak, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - 1.5 minutes. Mrs Krystyna Wróblewska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u66	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am convinced that the proposed amendments to the law amending the education system will have a positive impact on its shape. They respond to young people's expectations. It is indeed unfair, and even anti-educational, that there was no mechanism in the existing educational legislation to enable the persons passing the exam to verify the results of the written part of the examinations. I'm glad the Ministry took care of this problem and wants to solve it. My question is whether the creation of an independent College of Examination Arbitrations working with the Director of the Central Examination Board, whose task will be to deal with appeals, will contribute to improving the quality of the examination of graduate tasks and thus contribute to the satisfaction of young people in this area, among others. by photographing your work? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u67	Thank you. Mr Kazimierz Starzdowski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u68	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In connection with this governmental draft law amending the Law on the Education System and some other laws, I would ask for clarification of the content of the article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 7 point 5 of the amended Education Act. In accordance with this provision, the tasks of the school or establishment authority include, inter alia, the following: performing activities in matters of labour law in relation to the head of the school or establishment. Will a resolution of the district board be required in the case of a school or institution operated by the county to grant leave to its director or other minor labour law activities? This is the result of the article. 5c point 2 of the Education System Act. Wouldn't it be better to authorise these old-fashioned activities by amending the article? 5c point 3 of the Education Act? Another issue is the provisions of the new Article. It's 20 lips. Point 1 and paragraph 1. 3th Education Act. I would ask you to answer the question in which form the managing authority referred to in those provisions should carry out its duties. Could it be, for example. Order of the Uncle? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u69	Thank you. Mr Zbigniew Biernat, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u70	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! My question concerns grants, especially for kindergartens, pre-school branches. If a non-resident student attends a public kindergarten run by a municipality, a legal person who is not a local authority unit or a natural person attends a non-resident school, the municipality of which the pupil is resident shall bear the costs of his education in a kindergarten equal to the amount of the grant to a kindergarten determined for the municipality in which the student attends the kindergarten. It is often the case that municipalities have free seats and can take these children to kindergarten at their place of residence. Would it not be appropriate, however, to regulate this issue so as not to invest in kindergartens in rural areas which are often empty afterwards? And the second question, also regarding the settlement of the grant. Do you not think that this law should allow, as in the case of the Minister of Culture, the establishment of a catalogue of tasks for which natural persons or legal persons other than JSTs may spend grants granted by local government units so as not to result in [[♪ The bell ♪]] Unreasonable expenses, not related to education? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u71	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Adam Wozniak, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u72	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The law on the system of education that we are treating is very expected by teachers, parents and pupils and primary schools, and secondary schools. As it was said, the project assumes that a test for the sixth grade of primary school is not carried out. Moreover, what has already been mentioned here today is very important the establishment of the College of Examination Arbitration, to which students, seniors, will be able to refer, to verify the number of points received on the exam. And, which is also important, the proposed changes will also apply to this year's seniors who will be able to photograph it when they look at the work. Moreover, it is important to clarify the many deadlines that have led to many misunderstandings in the education system so far. My question to the Minister is this: In addition to these current, very important changes that are expected by the environment, students, teachers and parents, what are the next changes that will make it easier for students, parents, teachers to learn in the Polish educational system? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u73	Thank you. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u74	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On the previous item on the agenda, we discussed the Law on Higher Education. And taking as a model the work on this law, which was both prepared in any consultation with the environment, with all stakeholders, and with a legislative process which was not affected by such extraordinary circumstances as the major amendments tabled during the second reading, I would like to ask the authors of this amendment, i.e. the representatives of the government, why they agree that when debating the law on the education system there should be such situations that Members, and in particular the social partners, which are local authorities, are surprised by such important amendments by the Members already tabled in the course of the work on the law here in Parliament. And I address the authors of these amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, why do you want to limit the powers of local governments, which bear not only material responsibility for the state of schools, but also political responsibility to residents of their municipalities, districts for the quality of education in their schools? I'll tell you what. In the local community, I heard the slogan "A change." It takes on a new meaning. This is not only the landing of party activists, your party, on companies of the Treasury, but also on the finances of local government, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Draining the local government and restricting its competence. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[This amendment has nothing to do with the financial situation, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u75	Thank you. Mr Andrzej Kryj, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u76	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I really don't see the connection between schools and State Treasury companies. I think someone's obsessed with this situation all the time. On the other hand, I would like to draw attention to some critical voices that appear and have nothing to do with reality. Criticizing the changes introduced by the Law and Justice, it is said, for example, that the pedagogical supervisor is supposed to approve school organisational sheets, while those regulations explicitly state that it is only to give an opinion. High Izbo, I meet with teachers, I meet with school heads and I must admit that this is the kind of change that will result in the sheets being evaluated by the supervisor, but only in terms of their compliance with the law, is expected and desirable. After all, the school's organizational sheet is the basis for staff traffic. And this staff movement is often something really unfavorable for some. Therefore, this change, namely that the supervisory authority will evaluate this sheet for compliance, will guarantee that there will not be any bad situation. I have a question for the Minister: Do the ministry hear voices that this is what it is? [[♪ The bell ♪]] positive and expected by the directors, by teachers? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u77	Thank you. Mrs Iwona Michalek, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u78	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to take care of the textbooks, the cost of the textbooks. The cost of textbooks, especially for language learning, is very high. That's why parents don't buy these textbooks every once in a while. Teachers have been signaling this problem for many years. A major problem is the provision of textbooks, educational materials and training for disabled students. What changes does the Ministry propose regarding the possibility to reimburse the costs of purchasing foreign language instruction manuals for disabled students? Will the proposed changes make it easier for disabled students to access textbooks and training materials in electronic form and thus make learning more attractive for children and for teachers to work? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u79	Thank you. Mrs Lidia Burzyńska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u80	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! According to the rules in force, the work of the school principal shall be assessed. It is carried out today by the school authority in agreement with the pedagogical supervisor. During today's speeches, there have been many accusations that the current government limits the powers of local governments that we do not trust. On the other hand, it seems to me that the role of these two bodies in relation to schools, which, as a primary task and responsibility towards pupils, is primarily to put education, namely the education of the young generation, in the first place. The pedagogical supervision carried out by the staff of the curatorium consists, among others. on: observing, analysing and evaluating the course of education and education processes and the effects of educational, educational and caring activities of the school, as well as assessing the state and conditions of activity, helping schools and institutions, inspiring teachers to innovate and many other activities leading to improving the quality of school work. As far as lead authorities are concerned, they supervise schools in financial and administrative matters. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Question for the rapporteur. One of the changes concerns the evaluation of the Director's work by the Curatorium in consultation with the managing authorities. Will this change improve the quality of school work? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u81	Thank you. Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u82	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The opposition once again raises the volume of good change, this time in education. I would like to assure Members of the Civic and Modern Platform that the Law and Justice do not want to destroy self-government, as you say, but want to strengthen it with the voice of the body in charge. We do not politicize the school against what you say, and we give the opportunity for all the levels responsible for it to speak in matters of education. The bill is long awaited. It meets the needs of the educational community. Many of the changes it contains, solutions have long been awaited by students, their parents, teachers and school heads. One of the changes is to restore the proper proportion of the composition of the competition committees for candidates for school heads in order to balance the presence of parents, school curators and local governments. I would like to ask the rapporteur: What was the basis for the changes in the composition of the competition committees, and why are these changes needed? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u83	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Wilk, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u84	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The draft law amending the Law on the system of education and some other laws provides, among others. the removal of the test in grade VI of the primary school and the possibility for the entry to the part of the written examination from 2017 onwards to appeal against the result of the examination to the College of Examination Arbitration. These changes are assessed positively. My question is: What is the point of allowing this year 2015/2016 to take the prom exam to take a photograph of its examination work when reviewing this work, since it will not yet be possible to refer to the arbitration college, since it will not be open for another year? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u85	Thank you. Mrs Elżbieta Gapinska, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u86	Thank you very much, Marshal. Dear colleagues from the PiS, it is funny when you hear from the Members of the PiS that you care about working for teachers. Let me remind you that the opinion of the organisational sheet has little to do with this, but there is much in common with your revision of the six-year-olds' going to school. That's what caused $7,000. Polish teachers will not have a job this year. And it's all yours. That's one thing. Secondly, you pointed out to me during my club speech that we don't care that young people can look into their senior year's work. Well, nothing's more wrong. In my first reading, when this project was completely different from the one that came out of the committee after that first reading, I was just talking about some reservations. We did not propose that the project should be completely rejected. We just wanted to make some minor adjustments. At the moment you turned this project upside down, he has nothing to do with the original submission. [[Tell me what you're telling me.]] Here's a question for the Minister. Minister, why would the Ministry agree to this? It's a complete mess. Even the Members of the PiS who have asked questions today have many doubts. These records are inaccurate, the state has not prepared itself exactly to proceed with this bill. And already these parliamentary amendments are one great tragedy at all. Members, really remember that concern for Polish education [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's not a care for education according to the PiS. Think again about what you're doing. [[Where are the applause for the Member?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u87	Thank you. Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u88	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The audit services, such as the Regional Audit Chambers and the Supreme Audit Chamber, as well as the local government units, inform that the high level of generality of the current rules has raised doubts as to the provisions relating to the award of grants. This, in turn, had such consequences that there was an uneven system for granting these grants across the country and there were disputes between the grant authorities and the subsidy bodies. Minister, will the proposed changes make it possible to establish more fairly the amount of grants, provide a very precise system for determining the amount of grants across the country? Very often, especially as self-government - I was such a self-government - we had problems explaining to non-public individuals that in a given voivodship the Regional Audit Chamber has this, not another opinion on the granting of grants. In turn, e.g. it was a natural person or a legal person who indicated to us that at the other end of the country, one could say, [[♪ The bell ♪]] They interpret the rules differently. For them to be unified, thank you very much on behalf of local governments. This is the right step, in the right...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u89	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u90	Those rules go in the right direction. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u91	Mr Dariusz Piontkowski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u92	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At first, a minor correction. Speaking of the 5th amendment, I mentioned the year 2017. Should be: September 1, 2016. It's just an explanation. Speaking of which, opinions on organisational sheets: Does the Ministry therefore provide for any organisational changes, the burden of responsibilities on probation workers? I will remind you that for many years, unfortunately, the curatoria were deprived of this right by the Platform and PSL. Will this affect the way the curatoria works and possibly the number of people employed? The second case concerns the definition of education in youth and sociotherapeutic centres. That's the problem we talked about in the previous term. Through the terrible management of the Ministry by the POs, some of these centres were given a different definition of education than later of the tax offices. This led to a number of court trials. Hence the question: Will the changes in the law that we are now proceeding also explain the situations of the past, or will this unfortunately not have an impact on how these matters will turn out? The following element, the examination of appeals against the decision of the district director of the examination commission. Have you tried to estimate the scale of such appeals? Will this concern mainly those subjects that are mentioned in the explanatory memorandum, namely chemistry, biology, mathematics? Do you expect an increased wave of appeals? Because some people are afraid of it. The last piece. PO very much [[♪ The bell ♪]] He's talking about local government rights here. It is a pity that you have not remembered this in the last eight years when you imposed many responsibilities, many financial burdens, without providing additional resources. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u93	Thank you. Katarzyna Lubnauer, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u94	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! As I have already mentioned, one of the main elements of this project is the issue of the elimination of the sixth grade exam, which in fact dismantles the entire educational programme of added value. I wanted to ask what the issue of the European programme, which was financed by quite a large amount of more than several hundred million zlotys, will look like in this situation. The European Union can ask us to return it because the effects and sustainability of the project are foreseen by 2020. If we consider that these examinations, such selective, non-external ones, which will be carried out at the beginning of secondary school, may not be considered fully objective - because the aim of the secondary school, which will know that it can be assessed on the basis of them under the EWD, may be to seek to reduce the level of performance - this may be considered insufficient by the European Union. Have you carried out any analyses on whether we will not have to return the European Union's money when the sixth grade test is terminated? How much would that be? How do these amounts relate to the projected savings resulting from the lack of a sixth-grade test?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u95	Thank you. Mrs Marta Golbik, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u96	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question that's already been asked here today, but I'm hoping for an answer. As you have said before: Why are the amendments that have been added to the committee, if so expected and necessary, not included in the government project? Why could they not have been consulted earlier and why are they introduced in such a way? Why do you not want to consult with the local authorities who are responsible for the changes made by the state? I think that this is fundamental - actually first of all they need to be consulted before making such changes. I hope that the answer to this question will come because, as I say, it has already been asked many times. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u97	Thank you. Ms Urszula Rusecka, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u98	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question to the Minister: Are there any work being done in the Ministry on restoring the readability of this procedated bill, which the previous coalition governing the regulations issued to this law has led to a complete absurdity? I say this as a former self-government officer who had the pleasure of working on the basis of the provisions of this law. Speaking of the parliamentarians of the Civic Platform, I say this: I am surprised at the concern of local governments, because it is behind the governments that the funding of education fell. Most schools have been closed down just under the rule of law. Most teachers lost their jobs at the time. However, the Law and Justice care about the education of the young generation, first of all, that our young people should be well educated, and this is a good change. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u99	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education, Mrs Teresa Wargocka.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u100	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for all the questions asked in the second reading of the law amending the law on the education system. Thank you for all the votes that confirm our ministry that the direction of the changes adopted in the education was desirable, correct, expected and will serve to improve the quality of school work, serve the students, serve all of us, serve our society. In addition to these changes, which are major, systemic changes, i.e. testing and arbitration during the Matura exam, we have really sorted out a number of issues which have been the subject of various requests to the Ministry, letters, we have also taken into account the audit results of the Supreme Audit Chamber and other state bodies, including the Constitutional Tribunal. We are introducing in those areas that have already been mentioned, I will not prolong, really, regulations regulating issues very essential to the functioning of education, for the good functioning of the school, for the good functioning of the student, I will only mention the disabled student, how many things we have regulated. Really, it's a question that... That information we found at the ministry was really shocking, I mean. if the disabled child was not in the system on September 20th, then you could buy a book for him, then it waited a year. Ladies and gentlemen, how can you live in such a country as you can say... [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] ...that you are responsible for the state and education if you do not wish to do such things, so to speak, in a legal way, really as urgent, most important? A great change in education does not have to be a great reform and a turning over of everything. A great change is made by such decisions as they improve, those that irritate, those that support financially, those that give people the feeling that it is worth working, that education is important, that their work is important, that the student is important. It's a bill. In this act we also showed that it is important to local government, because what has passed local governments on the local government line - non-public education in the field of mess in grant regulations, it is really a road through torment. This is a disgrace to the state, these are local conflicts, these are court cases, these are damages. It just shouldn't have happened. In this connection, the regulation of grants for non-public education, it may raise discussions in some parts, because we had a discussion on non-public artistic schools in the committee, but there is also only the restoration of a certain order, which must be introduced so that the funding for education really serves this education, brings results. Well, maybe it's just for admission. Let me answer the questions, of course, in some questions there is an element of such a discussion, right. Mrs Lubnauer talks about the EWD both in her club speech and in her question. Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps a word about the EWD, because we speak with slogans, big programs, that something has been financed from the Union, i.e. that it is sacred and the best on this earth, and really an evaluation value added this is a scientific, theoretical, model project and in our opinion, but also in the evaluation of the Educational Research Institute, in the light of our research, it does not actually produce the expected results, those which are established in this project. First of all, from these studies, from the study of added value in education, from all studies, one conclusion is that in general what most affects the level of education of the child, through this class and school, lies outside the school, that is his family environment, the cultural environment, that is the money that parents can use for additional activities, for additional development of the child, that is the level of education of parents, the way of spending free time, language, personal culture, etc. And that's true. So, ladies and gentlemen, how can you even say such things that you can measure the added value of the entire population of several million students in Poland? Because that's what the exam was supposed to be for, after primary school. If we have to measure the value of having a reference point, then I can agree, and I would like research institutes to carry out such studies, that if there is a new class team - this structure that is, I have a middle school class - and we have a class team that is recognized in terms of some social factors, the families from which the students come, we study with what level of knowledge they came to middle school, then on the same class team in three years' time, an innovative and innovative pedagogical group can, so to speak, do a study on whether after 3 years in the same team, where these cultural and social factors were specified 3 years earlier and have not changed, we have added value. If we want to see anything at school, in terms of increasing the knowledge of students, in a more objective way than a school evaluation, which has always taken into account not only the level of knowledge, but also the student's attitude to the subject, his efforts, his abilities, we can do it only if we compare the uniform, so to speak, groups with a well defined social context. This is actually an EU project, which is why it is possible to carry out further diagnostic tests on educational added value in junior highs. It was never a system for all schools and the whole environment. There's always been a certain willingness to run these tests through schools. I will not further develop the question of the test, because when I heard at first reading that the Civic Platform had in its electoral programme for 2015 the elimination of the test, but otherwise, I really concluded that there is already an absolute political agreement here that we should not hold such an exam, bear the costs, really, to lead the ranking of primary schools in terms of the result of the exam, because a good school is not just the results of the exams. I wanted to make it very clear that a good school is a school that develops the student as much as possible. I do not agree with the fact that the best schools are those that have the highest educational results, because it is often only knowledge, and in order to talk about the full education, formation of a young person, other competences and attitudes must also be developed. A good school is a school that raises, educates and educates people. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: That's right.]] We have the experience of many very elite schools, even junior high schools. In my district, the principals said it was a mistake to go to county middle school, that's where the rat race starts, there's no friendship, there's no teamwork. That's where the rat race starts. So let's also look at the school like this. Allow me that the issue of grants has been repeated in a number of points, which is how I will conclude that these provisions actually order the matter of the calculation of grants, the settlement of grants uniformly throughout the country. In this respect, there was an additional question regarding the return between municipalities. Mr Biernat asked about the catalogue of expenditure for which grants can be allocated. Here, the state from the legal department tells me that this catalogue of expenditure is in the article. 90. 3d and Article 3d Article 80 (1) (b) and (c) of Delegated Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 3d Act on the Education System. On the other hand, the issue of the return of money between municipalities for non-resident children, of course, must first of all be considered in the context of the fact that it is the parent who decides which kindergarten is his child. And that's the general rule in education. It is difficult to apply some financial mechanisms here that a child in the municipality in which he lives should be in kindergarten, because it will be, so to speak, treated differently or will not receive such opportunities in another kindergarten. Parents commute to work, take their children to cities, they're more comfortable, they're more efficient, they have that right. I think there was one more question about the grant... Ladies and gentlemen, if we find detailed questions in the report, we will answer in writing. I also wanted to refer to the things that fell here about arbitration, our really holistic, well-planned solution, which is the possibility of appealing against the outcome of the prom exam. Of course, one of the results of this project will be that the quality of the exams checked will certainly improve. And I don't want to dwell on this issue here, for example, but the number of student appeals, appeals recognised by the District Examination Boards shows that instruments are needed to increase the responsibility of the examiner who checks this examination work. This year This is an insight into the examination work, next year - arbitration. Actually, one doesn't argue with the other. Of course, we are not able to organise an arbitration committee today, because in June we are adopting a law, and because of the possibility of looking into work is also provided for in the law procedure of appeal, i.e. a request for a re-assessment. Allowing students to photograph their graduation work is basically a way to relieve the burden, so to speak, of the staff of the examination board, of the obligation to be present when the student takes notes from this work. This is purely technical. The principle is that the abiturist has the right to inspect his work and has the right, so to speak, to have a document in the form of a photograph, as this work has been evaluated and solved. I don't think there were any more questions about arbitration. There was a question about school organisational sheets and curatoria organization. Of course, we are ahead of changing the organization of pedagogical supervision in education curatoria. There have been two meetings with the education counselors, also to discuss these issues. We have some assumptions for the draft amendments to the Education System Act in this regard. All these important areas, which will require close cooperation between the ministry, the curator and the local government, will also be included in the organisation of curatoria, in employment. We are simply responsible for this work being organized continuously and competently. There is also the question, so to speak, that we must amend the law on the system of education also in the field of supervision. There was a question about the definition of an upbringing and all the problems that have youth educational centers and youth sociotherapy centers, connected with the fact that this definition was not in educational law. Of course, the problem is huge because, in general, local governments, which the Civic Platform has cared so much about over the last 8 years, have at the moment decisions of the tax chambers on the reimbursement of about 70 million of local authorities' resources to the state budget for taking into account, reporting to the SIO system of pupils who did not arrive at the institution on 30 September. There you go, talk to the local authorities, listen to what's going on. In general, the matter is beyond the competence of the Minister of Education. At the moment there are decisions of the tax authorities, will be decided by the Minister of Finance. That's all I can say. The case is regulated by law, we have made this provision in this Act, that on 30 September 2016 a pupil who is to be referred to the Centre, and the Director has received this referral, is entered, is reported in the SIO and is scheduled to receive a grant. May I? Yes, you can. It took six months. So if I hear that Law and Justice are doing nothing but restricting local governments, especially the state and pursuing politics... [[Because it's true.]] ...you really read this bill and you'll see how many... [[There's gonna be another farm advisory bill coming up.]] ...is solved substantive issues that nobody even wanted to look at, because you had to do politics and you had to do PR. And maybe in this context. I think the last point that you are addressing here is that of the amendments on pedagogical supervision. Ladies and gentlemen, you are parliamentarians, and you are well aware that the government's work on the bill ends when the Prime Minister of the Government directs the bill to the High House. And, of course, there were questions about what the Ministry thought about the amendments tabled by the parliamentarians. I have to answer this: in a major revision of the Education Act, there would certainly be such changes. [[The voice from the room: Why didn't you make it?]] It's not that we didn't see the need to balance the position of the curator and the governing body in school management, because we really want partnership and cooperation. Really. It's hard to believe, but really. [[Voice from the room: Exactly, that's fine.]] And imagine that within six months such a huge number of signals were reported about irregularities, about really humiliating some directors through negative work assessments, that they were only called off of their functions. I've got an e-mail. behind the e-mail about what's going on in the world. And if the parliamentarians of the Law and Justice hear it every day in their... in their... [[Voice from the room: Districts.]] ...circles and their offices, it's really no wonder there's such an amendment. We leave this to the High House's decision. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u101	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer, as corrected.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u102	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! I wanted to explain a few things. [[Straighten it up.]] Of course, I appreciate the educational role of the school and I have no doubt that the educational role of the school, apart from the educational role, is very important. At the same time, however, I believe that the EWD is an important tool that allows not only to evaluate but also to change schools. If it is well applied, pedagogical supervision as well as local government supervision has a real opportunity to help those schools that require this assistance, which not only do not raise the level of pupils but even lower them, and really appreciate those who manage to do so. Of course, the parent's environment has a fundamental or at least a fundamental impact, while the role of parents, among others, has a fundamental impact. education is reducing this impact, i.e. equalising opportunities - that is, allowing those who were not lucky to be born in the right families to get the best results. And here, too, EWD can help. That's why I asked a very specific question. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I asked the question of what costs it would be worth if we returned these funds in relation to how much we would save if we didn't organize this test...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u103	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u104	...because from what I've heard, it's about PLN 660 million. That's a lot of money. [[Secretary of State at Teresa Wargock's Ministry of National Education: Madam, you will allow me to reply in writing because I am not prepared.]] Okay, please. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u105	Please take the floor of the rapporteur of the committee, Mrs Marzena Machalek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u106	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Honestly, I was counting, we were all hoping that this bill would not be controversial, that the discussion on it would be substantive, that if even the amendments tabled by the Members did not gain recognition of the opposition, at least we would not be insulted again and the discussion would not be reduced to a very low level. I am disappointed by the attitude of a representative of the PO club who, instead of leaning over the submission, over these matters, simply insulted Law and Justice as usual. I have already said that this is an important and necessary, expected change and that this should be considered. This change can always be improved. We also know that the law on the education system together with its various branches amending this law is legislatively difficult and that any change will always be simply a complicated change. It may really be time to draw up a new law on the education system, but this is a great job. Today, in the case of any amendment, any change must be counted against the fact that there will still be amendments and clarifications. And the fact that it happens doesn't surprise me at all. On the other hand, we are in Parliament. The government is submitting a draft, but Members have the right to submit an amendment to this draft. And this is what Members of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth have done. This is outrageous when this right of Members is being withdrawn during the time of the amendment, interrupting the committee meeting. I consider this to be a violation of the rules of procedure and the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. The amendment can be agreed, disagreed, but due to its notification no committee should be held and no committee should be adjourned. These amendments that Members have tabled, indeed, Minister, are due to the concern for the quality of education in individual local governments, but we do not treat the self-government as power, because the self-government is a community of residents who live in a given area. We don't just care about the comfort of power, about the comfort of power, just about the quality of education for the local community in the area. And that's what I think is most important, and that's what our amendments are for. [[Applause]] I believe that as a Member who presented his position on behalf of the club many years ago when you changed the education system law - I strongly criticised these changes on behalf of my club - today I had the right to make these amendments, because I know that these were bad changes. These were changes that affected the balance between the two authorities, the lead authority and the supervisory authority, completely disregarding the powers of the host authority and the supervisory authority. We very much respect what local governments do when it comes to schools, even when they not only care about equipment, about buildings, but also create their own education development plans. On the other hand, the quality of education, quality supervision should be dealt with by the curatorium, the state should be concerned. You guys took those instruments from the parole board. Therefore, such situations can actually happen, that the director becomes a hostage not of the local government, but of the local government. And many times there have been situations that we meet with the fact that the director is tied up - there is no time to appeal the decision of the local government, because at the moment, on the basis of these regulations, he cannot appeal to the curatorium. The issue of imbalance in competitions at all, that's the first thing. Here's where I want to draw attention. For a case like this, too. During the discussion we accepted the comments of trade unions and today we tabled an amendment that clarifies the issue of competitions. It's a matter of evaluation. Evaluation of the Director's work is not mainly an assessment of whether the building is well equipped, it is primarily an assessment of the quality of education and education. This assessment should therefore be carried out by the supervisory authority, but, of course, in agreement with the lead authority. We don't have an important, important influence here. We simply restore normality and logic in what education is, what a supervisory authority is, what a leading authority is. I think - Minister, I say to you - that we really have a very comprehensive work ahead of us on changes in the field of pedagogical supervision, changes that will really restore the responsibility of the state for Polish education, and the local governments that have really been demoted in your time - a few hundred billion debts are your governments - will be treated in partnership. On the other hand, in Europe's democratic education systems, these two bodies complement each other, cooperate, and, in terms of quality, no country allows itself to avoid supervision of the quality of education. Thank you very much and thank all those who have worked on this project in substance. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u107	Thank you, Member. Mrs Elżbieta Gapinska, as corrected. [[Your name wasn't there.]] [[She wasn't mentioned.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u108	You have referred to my statement, Mrs President, and I would therefore like to say to you that if you say that a local government is a community of residents, why do you not act as if a local government is a community of residents, but you want to take over the local government, first of all. Secondly, Minister and Member of the Commission, and Mr PiS, I would like to say that this submission, which we are currently working on, is quite different from that of the government. And you know that very well. And that's why we're here. Please remember my remarks at the moment when the first reading was in the Parliamentary Chamber. They were completely different, referring to the two most important in the presentation of government records. At the moment, however, through what you have done, you want to de facto take over Polish education in a political way. We have left the Polish People's Republic, but the Polish People's Republic has not left you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: We want to depoliticize.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u109	Mrs Marzena Machalek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u110	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I regret, but you have not understood the law at all, if you think that these few amendments, which will, perhaps, be voted on, will change the law completely. And I regret that you didn't understand what I said or what the Minister said either. We really want to treat education in a civil and community way and we also restore freedom in education, we do not impose solutions, we restore balance. And it's a shame that a party called "Citizen's Party" is running away from this citizenship. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u111	Thank you. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm ordering a three-minute recess. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 11 min 56 hours 12 min 03]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the draft law amending the Law on Agricultural Advisory Units (Prints No. 572 and 606). I ask Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u112	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, contained in print No. 606, on the draft law amending the law on agricultural advisory units, print No. 572. The Marshal of the Sejm, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, sent the above draft law to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for first reading on 7 June 2016. The Commission carried out its first reading and examined the draft law at its meeting on 9 June 2016. During a long and interesting discussion, issues were raised not only in relation to agricultural advice, but also its effectiveness, the need to strengthen as an important element the transfer of knowledge from agricultural sciences to farmers. Knowledge is one of the most important elements influencing the competitiveness of Polish agriculture and the public farm advisory system has the transfer of knowledge at the appropriate level to ensure. We have also discussed the fulfilment of the expectations of farmers reported to public agricultural advice - many, after all, there is commercial advice on the market, advice from commercial companies, there are a number of other institutions that advise farmers, but public advice should be most trusted, it should be the advice that absolutely objectively provides farmers with the knowledge necessary for the efficient running of farms. We also discussed, unfortunately, a very eroded system of social control, agricultural advice, socialisation of the agricultural advisory process, a mechanism which in the early 1990s was initiated by the then Minister of Agriculture, Mr.Gabriel Janowski, who unfortunately, in subsequent years, under subsequent governments, submitted, as I said, to erosion. In the situation of submission of voivodship advisory centers to the local government of the voivodship, the marshal, the management of the voivodship, the sejmik actually the role of the social council composed of representatives of various social partners and institutions becomes a facade role, to put it simply: decorative. There have been allegations that this parliamentary project is an attempt to politicise agricultural advice, because - as the opponents have reported - it is primarily about the exchange of directors. [[Voice from the courtroom: Embarrassment.]] I would like to remind you - I think the members of the Committee on Agriculture have read the draft - that Article. 3 of this law clearly states that the terms of the previous directors of agricultural advisory centres are counted according to the previous regulations, so this is not about any immediate exchange of directors, because if this were the main intention and purpose of this law, then such a provision would probably be in the act. I do not think that all those who have the right experience, knowledge and competence in the management of advice may be afraid of this law. This will simply become a gesture of the Ministry of Agriculture, because this project in its essential content assumes a shift of responsibility for agricultural advisory centres from the provincial, local government to the minister of agriculture. I would like to remind you that in Poland we have a horizontal agricultural policy for which the government is responsible and, in particular, under the relevant laws, the Minister for Agriculture. It is the Minister of Agriculture that we blame, it is the Minister of Agriculture that we account for, it is from the Minister of Agriculture that we expect some actions to solve agricultural problems, not from the Marshals of Voivodships, not from local governments. Of course, the differences in agriculture in Poland are also linked to individual regions, with the specific characteristics of these regions, but there is no reason for any contraindications that local authorities, both voivodeship authorities, who have huge money for regional development, mainly in the framework of cohesion policy and other levels of local government, support their agricultural advisory centres, so that they define measures and focus them on specific regional problems. Nevertheless, the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development is responsible for agricultural matters. We were surprised to see the decision of 2010, the decision of the then Minister of Agriculture, Mr Marek Sawicki, who gave the advisory services to the local authorities of the voivodships, removing one of the most important tools of influence, influencing rural policy, informing farmers about important actions, such as those resulting from European Union policy, getting rid of the army that was necessary. We want to eliminate this problem, improve the situation, restore the power of the Minister of Agriculture to agricultural advisory centres. I am convinced that this is a positive action for Polish agriculture, while stabilizing policies in agricultural advisory centers, making these centres independent from ad hoc political games at regional and local level. Therefore, the Committee on Agriculture, after first reading and considering this project, as I have already mentioned, on 9 June, asks the High Sejm to approve the attached bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u113	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Robert Telus, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u114	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the parliamentary draft law amending the law on agricultural advisory units. The rapporteur quite extensively described the situation in agricultural advisory centres, the way agricultural advice works. I think that the purpose of setting up agricultural advisory centres was completely different from what all agricultural advisory activities indicate at the moment. At this point, ladies and gentlemen, agricultural advice focused primarily on filling out applications, helping farmers on the issue, let us call it formal and getting money from the European Union. It is not wrong, it is only that the purpose of agricultural advice apart from this sphere of financial assistance should also be the technological, educational sphere, and this advice should be more specialised. There is a lack of such specialist advice, e.g. pig farmers, and this should be in these advisory centers. [[There it is, there it is.]] In 2010, when the ruling Civic Platform and PSL coalition broke out of the ministry because it was forced, agricultural advice and passed it on to the marshals, we as Law and Justice said it was a mistake, that it is a systemic error, a mistake that will hiccup, will affect the entire agriculture, not only on advice, but on the whole agriculture. And so it has happened, ladies and gentlemen, because at the moment agricultural advice is underfunded. [[No, it's not, it's not, please tell me the truth.]] Why is it underfunded? Because it is financed by the state budget, but by the marshals and it is the marshals who decide how much money will go for advice. There are lowest wages in farm advisory centers. What's going on now? Ladies and gentlemen, the situation is that those farm counselors who want to make some money go to private counseling, and state counseling lies. Now you just have to rebuild it. This law is really a restoration - here Members are talking about a revolution, and this is not a revolution - I repeat, the restoration of the state before 2010, the correction of the mistake we were talking about, because we were explaining to the Members of the Civic Platform and the PSL that it would be a mistake. At the moment, we are restoring normality and restoring agricultural advisory services to a single agricultural policy. Law and Justice, the Government of Law and Justice has a clear policy in terms of agriculture, and it wants to pursue this policy. [[This is the destruction of Polish agriculture.]] And there is no better tool to implement this agricultural policy, to transfer knowledge, to transfer precisely this expertise than good and healthy agricultural advisory centres. Ladies and gentlemen! I've already talked about it, we have a lot of workers, good workers, specialists at farm advisory centers, but they're underfunded. And I hope that the change that is being proposed, which we are proposing... [[Where's the more money in this bill?]] ...will lead to the fact that these specialists, these good specialists, the Member who is trying to disturb me, will remain in this public agricultural advice. It's not like we're doing anything against private advice. Let it be. But the priority and the most important tool for the Ministry to transfer knowledge from institutes, this expertise, should be agricultural advice, it's public. And that was the purpose of the farm advisory centers. You broke this case in the last term of office in 2010. I hope that this law will restore normality, we will fix the state of agricultural advice, so that it is good for the country, but above all that it is good for the Polish farmer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u115	Thank you. Mr Artur Dunin, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u116	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yes, it is also an honor for me, on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, to present the position of the club in relation to the draft amendment of the law on agricultural advisory units. Unfortunately, this bill... The rapporteur's colleague has already stated here that the discussion has been rather turbulent, unfortunately he has not presented it in its entirety as it actually was. There's been a motion for rejection that hasn't been accepted. Any amendments to this law were rejected by a majority, i.e. by the PiS. But to the point, to the project itself. Ladies and gentlemen! There was no opinion, which is against the rules of the Sejm. I'll tell you on what grounds. Art. Paragraph 36 (6) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm makes it clear that the consideration of laws which may result in changes in the functioning of the local government includes the consultation of local authorities forming the local government side of the Joint Government and Local Government Commission. Paragraph 7: Local government organisations referred to in point 6 shall have the right to present an opinion within 14 days of receipt of the draft resolution, the law. Of course, there was no such conclusion, Marshal. Keep an eye on the rules of the Sejm. [[Ooh, Mr. Marshal.]] The situation is unacceptable - the fact that we received a bill on Friday in one week, which entered the marshal's staff, on Monday to the committee, and already on Wednesday we discussed it without any opinions - as is apparent from the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, according to Article. 36. Two days after the committee's deliberations, we get an opinion from the BAS. I will only read the conclusion: The Polish draft law on amending the law on agricultural advisory units is contrary to European Union law. Another thing that's pretty important about property. The Act is incompatible with the Company Regulations, the Act is incompatible with the Real Estate Management Act, the Act is incompatible with the Local Government Act. You are only preparing another attack on another organizational, agricultural unit, which is not yet yours. That's all you care about. The law is probably because it is only the Constitutional Tribunal that can conclude that it is incompatible with the Article. 165, except you don't care either, because you've practically eliminated the Constitutional Tribunal. The bill is unacceptable. Here, on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, there will be another motion for rejection in its entirety, as well as two amendments to this law. It's a law that's strict, but purely proprietary, a law that satisfies the political interests of Law and Justice, because you don't have your directors there yet, who, as you know, can only destroy and build nothing else. I will be terrified to look at it, because this is another stage of your activity, which - as in the case of the horse stud in Janów - causes the destruction of another thing in agriculture. I regret to say that the Law and Justice Club is against agriculture, against farmers, and this is already felt in talks with farmers in the field. Farmers turn their backs on you, though they hoped you would make good changes. What does it turn out to be? Those are bad changes. Thank you very much. At the hands of the Marshal, I am handing over a motion for rejection in its entirety and two amendments. Thank you kindly. [[Voice from the Chamber: Proposal and amendments?]] [[Amendments and proposal to reject the amendment, he, he.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u117	Thank you. Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u118	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz club15 on the parliamentary draft law amending the law on agricultural advisory units, prints No. 572 and 606. As we read in the explanatory memorandum, the proposed changes are intended to transfer the subsidiaries and supervision of voivodship agricultural advisory centres from the voivodship's management board to the minister responsible for rural development. The main reason for changing the dependency of centres is to improve the competitiveness and development of agriculture and rural areas by improving the performance of farm advisory tasks for farmers. I ask one thing, do not use the country of farmers for further changes which will neither help nor harm farmers in any way. This is a political game, so let's leave farmers out of it. The farmer has knowledge. If you have doubts about this, I invite you to my family's chamallows. It is about taking over agricultural advisory centres and me as a farmer and a Member - this is my first term - this change does not help or harm. Repelled from power, the opposition criticizes this change, and the Law and Justice as a designer praises it. Remember, the slave does not have an employee, and paraphrasing this proverb, the slave does not have a voter. The PO-PSL coalition found out, lost the election. Law and Justice have been given the greatest mandate of trust from society. Citizens did not like what was happening in Poland. But that's not what voters expect, that's why the council from a young parliamentarian, a farmer, but also a person who tried her best in the media: People need politicians who work out transparent solutions. You mustn't make people more vulnerable. Today, the only way to get a job at the office is to know each other. Father must know someone, be in the party. How do you think it feels to be a young man who's trying to get a job and can only get it through some kind of deal? How does it feel to be a young man who has all the skills, faculty, languages, but is worse than a good man in a party arrangement? Such a young man feels mean, just mean, he feels deceived by his own country and betrayed. Ladies and gentlemen, my cousin is a good man too, so you can appoint him, for example. Chairman of KGHM, but that's not the point. If a young man, with competence, takes part in the competition and wins it, then he will vote for you anyway, because he will believe that in this country he can be normal thanks to such governments. I made an amendment on the committee that was rejected. I'll put it on your marshal's hand tonight. The amendment reads: The director appointed and cancelled by the Minister responsible for rural development from among the candidates selected in the public competition shall be the body of the agricultural advisory unit. The proposed amendment aims to transparent the selection of the director of the agricultural advisory unit. The Minister for Rural Development should have full political responsibility for the bodies under his authority, and the amendment therefore leaves the appointment and dismissal of the directors of the agricultural advisory bodies under the responsibility of the Minister for Rural Development, but the selection of candidates for managerial positions should take place in a standardised and transparent manner. The competition procedure will allow candidates who are not partyly linked to the current minister to submit their content. Why do such amendments fall in committees? Why does Minister Bogucki say to me, Mr Bogucki, there have been no competitions in previous governments? After all, you said you wouldn't share your positions like the previous coalition. In the long term, transparency pays off because it frees citizens. People don't have to be politicized. I am sure that the political option that will lead to such transparency will be trusted and voted for by the citizens of the world. Not under duress, not out of slavery, just out of normality. As a farmer and parliamentarians, I repeat: This law will neither help nor harm farmers, so do not involve farmers or provide how it will be colourful, because the director will change. Please consider the TTIP agreement and the threat it poses and, for example, the import of cheap grain from Ukraine. There's no director here to help. Act for farmers, not name directors, because I'm a farmer, for example. grain prices will not raise. As for this law, when voting, vote in favour of this amendment. Let young, ambitious people in competitions try to get a job. Give them a substitute for normality. If the amendment is accepted, Kukiz15 will vote in favour of the Act amending the Law on Agricultural Advisory Units. Otherwise, Kukiz15 will be against. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u119	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u120	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Speaking on this law, one should first of all ask the basic question, which is: What is the real purpose of this law? Is the exchange of management positions in agricultural advice and filling them with people of Law and Justice, or the total change in quality of agricultural advice in Poland? 'Cause I'm sure that's what we need. The current state of agricultural advisory services does not bring glory to the previous management of the Ministry of Agriculture, and this needs to be said explicitly. An advisor with a higher education earns the lowest possible money in Poland, 1350 PLN per hand, which I do not think makes it easier to hire good professionals who will gladly raise their skills and develop consulting skills. There is no money for access to farms, the state of offices and equipment is mournful. In many districts there are 900 farms per adviser. With regard to what it looks like in other countries, in Denmark, which is in many respects a role model for farmers, there are 60 farms per advisor. Most of the staff are people of pre-retirement age. Young, educated, well-prepared for field work, people are not interested in working under such conditions. That's why we understand the need for change, because as much as it can't be worse, any change can be for the better. Counseling is needed, sir, very much needed. This is borne out, for example, by a number of untimely investments in the countryside, which were made at the instigation of pseudo-odorads, who were often more lobbyists than advisors. [[Applause]] Since we are not a total opposition, which we prove once again from this speaker, we are able to support certain changes, but under certain conditions. First of all, in terms of staff changes, it must be decided actually by the criterion of knowledge and competence, not by the guys and party legitimacy of Law and Justice, we have already worked in Poland. Farmers expect professionals who will provide them with substantial support. The world is changing, not everyone has to follow. Counsellors may not work for the lowest possible salary. You can't keep pretending that farmers actually have Some kind of backup. It is necessary to increase salaries, which will attract young people who are well prepared to act as advisors, who understand the need for a civilization leap in the Polish countryside. In addition to basic, free state advice, highly specialised private advice should of course also be developed. We shouldn't forget that either. In addition, agricultural advice must be based on district teams whose characteristics should be adapted to the specifics of the county concerned. We know that these characteristics in breeding can be very different. Advisory centres should work closely with agricultural universities, scientific institutions, agencies: Agricultural Market, Agricultural Real Estate, Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. [[Because they're well-managed.]] Counsellors should also regularly train in advisory centres in other EU countries, such as France and Denmark, where agriculture is at the highest level. There is a reason why farmers send their own workers to farms in these countries to improve their competences. But it is also necessary to comply with European Union law, and this project - as has already been mentioned - is unfortunately incompatible with EU law. The project is incompatible because Article. 6a of the Act states that the position of director of the agricultural advisory unit can only be taken by a person who is a Polish citizen. However, the free movement of persons and, in particular, workers is one of the fundamental principles of the European Union. The principle of free movement of workers within the Union includes the abolition of any discrimination on grounds of nationality for workers from individual Member States. The exception to this rule can only constitute positions in public administration, with the concept of public administration quite strictly defined here and according to any interpretation the position of the director of the unit in this regulation is not included. Change of names will not change anything, real changes in agricultural advice are needed, otherwise waste time and energy for the whole discussion. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Without modern and available agricultural advice, there will be no modern agriculture in Poland. We are, as I said, able to support this project, but after some changes. I'm making amendments to your marshal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u121	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u122	Dear Marshal, Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! Speaking on behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, it is worth mentioning the very role of counseling. She's big, she's big. Poland's countryside is changing, agriculture is changing, as well as the conditions and environment in which agriculture operates are constantly changing. Of course, farmers expect this basic advice, which is necessary to produce a product that will later be sold on the market, i.e. they expect technological advice - how to produce it to be good performance, how to produce it, so that the costs are low to achieve profit. But farmers, having the opportunity to benefit from a large range of European measures and activities, today, yesterday, also expect investment advice, so as to advise them what to change on the farm in terms of not only production technology but also the nature of this production, or find a department, a field that is more profitable than any other. So farmers also need investment advice - which device, which tractor to buy, not only listening to who produces it. Farmers today also expect market advice on the ability to behave on the market, because this is often what Polish agriculture lacks and thus they lose competition not only with their colleagues, partners in the country, but also outside. And these issues are mainly to be addressed by advice, which the Polish village and Polish agriculture should support. What kind of advice do we have today - let us remind you again - of what kind of advice? Of course, there is public advice that we are talking about today. It is free of charge, that is, for the farmer it is free of charge. It is provided by agricultural advisory centres, by agricultural advisory centres, often by scientific institutions, institutes or academies in agricultural fields. And such advice should work. It should be completely independent of commerce, independent of those who produce products that they sell to farmers later. That is also the case for this law. But advice is also increasingly and increasingly private, commercial. It may not be entirely objective, but in order for it to be well received by farmers, it must also go towards objectivity. This is advice that is provided by various companies operating on the market. Finally, there is also advice that farmers themselves provide, i.e. they hire consulting companies based on an analysis of how they advised them in previous years. That's what producer groups do, they do different trade unions, sort of filter out advisors who work on the market. And we're back to that bill. You say that she is of great importance, that she will to a large extent change the nature of the advice you think with your mouths as bad. I don't think it's that bad. I know a lot of specialists who operate, who advise farmers very well. We would like them to advise even better, but this is mainly dependent on their financial capacity, i.e. on the financial resources that are put into this advice. And if you want to change this advice, as you say, in order to make it more effective, it is a need to change, but not this law. There is a need to amend, for example, the budget law and the designation. twice as many measures as today are put into agricultural advice. Then it would be more efficient, employ better specialists, win competition with private advice. In the meantime, while you are hiding from regionalisation, you are really making changes in your positions, because no one in this Chamber will believe that other intentions are there for you - please indicate one institution for which you have taken the initiative, most often a parliament, concerning management positions, but also at the bottom where you have not made such changes. In the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, you have gone down to the lowest and smallest structure. Incidentally, when you made these changes, as an argument, you argued that the county offices of the restructuring agency are to be the place where you will advise farmers, the first point of contact of the farmer with the administration, the farmer with the advisor, and that this advice should be provided there. This is a quote from one of your fellow Members. So if this bill were to go in that direction, it would probably be worth supporting. As far as regionalisation is concerned, it is said that the Minister of Agriculture should centrally implement agricultural policy. However, there is no one agricultural policy, there is no one region in Poland, which is identical to the other region in Poland. I also raised this in the debate a few years ago. And just different character e.g. Western Pomeranian agriculture and Podkarpackie agriculture was pointed out as an argument in favour of providing advice to local governments. Not only because it will be closer to those who decide how this advice is going to work, but also because it is advice and its character that will correspond to the reality of the region. It's worth remembering. This law has only personal intentions, as another fact shows. That is, if you, speaking of the need to improve the quality of advice, were credible, you would not propose lowering the criteria to be met by those who are to perform advisory functions. You are already running out of people, so there is an urgent need to reduce competence requirements and as soon as possible, [[♪ The bell ♪]] After 14 days from the date of entry into force of this law, making changes in executive positions so that they are their own everywhere, not uncomfortable, because even when they are good, but they are not ours, they must be thrown out. [[He's mediocre, he's passive, but he's faithful.]] For this reason, the Polish People's Party will be against this law and will probably support most of the amendments that were tabled today at the committee meeting. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Joachim Brudziński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u123	Thank you. I ask the floor of Mr Ireneus for profit.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u124	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I would like to present the position of the circle on the draft law amending the law on agricultural advisory units. The draft law addresses important issues relating to agricultural activity. Local centres are close to farmers, and farmers are most likely to receive aid and information about support schemes for agricultural activities or the fulfilment of applications for direct payments. And this comes first of all - in addition to the legislative changes to which I will try to address in a moment - a request that has already been made from this speaker concerning the level of remuneration of advisers. If farmers want to receive professional support at a high level, I think that those who hold the title as advisors on agricultural matters cannot be as low as they currently are. This is extremely important, for example, from the point of view of the well-being of the agricultural advisor, his confidence, his profession. This will also affect the level of confidence of farmers in advisors and the quality of administrative services, legal assistance, organisational assistance, expert advice in this area. As we can read in the justification of the project, the main intention of the applicants is to change the subordinates of the voivodship agricultural advisory centres and transfer supervision of these centres from the voivodship's management board to the minister responsible for rural development. Given that the financing of the centres is carried out through the transfer from the State budget, through the Minister, of a special-purpose grant to carry out statutory tasks and financial resources for the implementation of the investment, the Minister should be able to supervise the regularity of the tasks carried out by the centres. Therefore, the amendment of the law in this respect should be considered justified. At the same time, the proposal to reduce the education required from candidates for the post of director of an agricultural advisory unit from a higher master's degree to a higher education is not justified. In the assessment of the Free and Solidarnia wheels in the case of management posts in the public administration, it should be an absolute requirement to have at least a master's degree, especially since, in the light of the popularity of education, obtaining this title today does not constitute an impossible objective. This also refers to what I mentioned earlier about the remuneration of agricultural advisors as well as the managers of agricultural advisory centres. Ladies and gentlemen! It is extremely important to increase the professionalism of farmers' services and to make the substantive level very high. It is also about the level of confidence of farmers in agricultural advice provided by agricultural advisory centres. It is clear that the requirement of education should not be the only requirement. Knowledge of the subject matter of the institution should be equally important. Unfortunately, the question of correctly verifying the knowledge of candidates e.g. in the course of the competitions was and is highly debatable. I would therefore like to find out what motivation the applicants had in the implementation of this amendment. In my opinion, I have such an irrefutable impression, this is another attempt to open the door to work for my own. I am sorry to say this because I am trying to support and support a good change, while, ladies and gentlemen, actions aimed at the ownership of further areas of the state in companies of the Treasury or in agricultural advisory units, as in this case, do not serve to strengthen citizens' confidence in the institutions of the Polish state. I don't think that's going to make the current government majority popular either. Please also refer to the complaint of the Office of Sejm Analysis, according to which the provision concerning the requirement of Polish citizenship in the case of directors of agricultural advisory centres - art. Article 6a (6) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) 1 - conflicts with the principle of free movement of workers within the Union as set out in Article. 45 of the Treaty on the Functioning Circle of Free and Solidarni Members requests that the project be directed to further work in committees. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u125	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to inform the High House that 11 ladies and gentlemen have joined the question. If there are no more volunteers, I'm closing the list. You're still an MP, aren't you? [[I'd still like to sign up.]] Well, then there are 12 people on record. I'm setting time for the question -- two minutes. Please, as the first Mr Krzysztof Ardanowski. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u126	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I want to ask the Minister a question because it is clear that agricultural advice is emotional, and the idea of it is often based on local experience with regard to the efficiency of the various voivodship or district structures. The fact that agriculture is needed, I think it's obvious. That it should be objective, efficient, well-remunerated, free from political pressure, and we all agree on that too. Unfortunately, so far its location causes that not the interests of farmers, not the needs of farmers are implemented, but the recommendations of the local authorities of voivodships, which do not ultimately bear responsibility for the state of agriculture. Some of my opponents are fairly - I don't know how to say it - simplified claims that they see the need to regionalise agricultural policy. Yes, Poland is diverse, but in each of the regions there are all problems in varying intensity. It is not that in the West Pomeranian voivodship, which is often quoted as a voivodship with a structure of larger farms, there is no problem of small farms, there is no problem of social farms. In each region of Poland the problems are similar, while their intensity may vary. That is why we have a horizontal policy, we have a European Union policy, not a regional policy. Each region can support its agricultural advisory centre financially, logistically, materially, etc., etc., no one forbids it, the structure under the Ministry of Agriculture is absolutely no obstacle to this. I would like to gain a little more knowledge of what the Ministry of Agriculture intends to do about the use and strengthening of the agricultural advisory function, the necessary tool for transferring knowledge and supporting farmers in this difficult world and the difficult profession of farming. Thank you very much. [[The bell, the applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u127	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u128	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a very short question. Namely, will the Kukiz15 amendment lead to the depoliticisation of agricultural advisory centers and can it help to select the best specialists for executive positions? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u129	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Mieczysław Baszka.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u130	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There is nothing in the proposed amendments to the Act about improving the implementation of advisory tasks. It's not there. there are also no proposals to improve communication between the research institutions of the agricultural Ministry and the agricultural advisory bodies. The project does not meet farmers and their expectations, it also meets local governments of voivodships. Are the authors of the project only about personal matters? But, as I once mentioned to Minister Babalski, I invite you to a national regional exhibition of breeding animals in Shepietów podlaskie. There the local government has not wasted this job, we show even that agricultural advice despite small financial resources is in a very good... in the right direction... [[Voice from the room: Condition.]] We should all be in good shape. Once again, the request to examine whether agricultural advisory centres, in this form or in any other form, should not be related to local authorities. Can he make a mix together with local governments? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u131	Thank you. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Joanna Borowiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u132	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The submitted draft law on agricultural advisory units concerns the change of the province's subsidiaries of agricultural advisory centres and the transfer of supervision of them from the voivodship's management board to the minister responsible for rural development. This is part of the horizontal agricultural development policy referred to by the rapporteur, for which the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development is responsible to society and to the agricultural environment. In relation to the opposition's voices on the ownership by the Law and the Justice of Agriculture, I have a question to ask the applicant: What were the projectors doing when proposing this solution? And second question: What positive effects will this bring on the functioning of advisory units... [[More stools for the PiS.]] ...farmers? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u133	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Mark Owl.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u134	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, this law is part of the whole cycle of laws that you are presenting to the High House and which are to submit to the Law and Justice of the subsequent institutions. In addition, it has such a dimension that it is such a first effect of taking something directly with the responsibility of local governments and subjugating the central administration. Of course, the main element, as a result of this decision - we will soon see - will be staff changes. But that's not the point. I must protest against the statements made by Members, in particular by Mr Telus, who said very clearly here that the Minister is giving money and that the marshals are supposedly stopping it and not giving it to the ODR. That is not true, sir. I don't know if you're even aware of the structure of the budgets... [[He's unconscious.]] ...farm advisory services. In Małopolska the budget is 15 million, of which the grant is 9 million PLN. Participation in the financing of local governments in each ODR is 10%, depending on individual years, of the individual programmes that are being implemented. Here, of course, is full freedom on the part of regional governments to develop such elements. I will agree with the fact that there is a lack of funding for agricultural advisory services here, which prevents the whole area of services from being increased to a higher level, which must and should, of course, be carried out for our farmers. It's obvious to me. But you didn't do anything to show the real picture. You don't even know how the advisory structure changed from 2010 to today. At that time, half of the revenue generated by ODRs was money for writing applications. Today this service is very little carried out by ODRs, hardly any more. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Counseling has completely changed. You should do a report, show a real picture of how it works, and then make proposals for change, not act the way you do it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u135	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Arthur Dunin.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u136	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll get back to the point. It can't be that your party is called Law and Justice, and it totally works the other way around: anti-legally, anti-righteously. I'm going to say again what I was talking about, and what we're running out of time in the club talk, that you're acting against the art. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 1 of the Act of 5 June 1998 on the Local Government of the Voivodship. The voivodship has property and other property rights acquired by the voivodship or other voivodship legal persons, which also refers to the property of local legal persons, which are agricultural advisory centers. You're breaking the law on this bill. You're breaking the law. This is an outrage. This is unacceptable. [[The bombing.]] That's right, it's an assassination attempt, an assassination attempt on the right. Again, according to the article. 165 The constitution of a local government unit has legal personality, ownership and other property rights, paragraph 1. 1. The independence of local government units shall be subject to judicial protection, paragraph 1. 2. The principle of autonomy of local self-government units consists of granting them legal personality with a particular emphasis on granting them personal rights of a private nature. So this is it. You guys actually have four letters of law. You're only interested in these stools. You're looking forward to it. Carrying out this law without agreement, apart from the rules of the Sejm, which I mentioned, art. 36, it's unacceptable. You're antisocial, anti-Polish, anti-agricultural. Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: Applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u137	Please take the floor of Mr John Warecha.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u138	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The current situation of agricultural advisory centres is dramatic. The workers employed are paid extremely poorly, and many centres are on the brink of collapse. They are underfunded and are often forced to conduct business in order to obtain funds to pay current expenditure. The current state of affairs is therefore unacceptable, and I therefore welcome the project that is being carried out to eliminate these pathologies. However, I would like to ask the Minister to answer the following questions. How will the converted agricultural advisory units be financed and forced to conduct business? Will the organizational structure and the way in which agricultural advisory units operate be modified as a result of the adoption of the proposed act in such a way that they will comply with the recommendations of the Supreme Audit Chamber, which were presented in the NIK audit report on selected agricultural advisory units? How will the control and monitoring of transformed agricultural advisory bodies be carried out as indicated in the explanatory memorandum for the project? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u139	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Piotr Polak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u140	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The law which we are amending today is currently being discussed in the Polish legal system since 2009, because it was then that the government coalition of the Platform and the Polish People's Party removed from the supervision of the Minister of Agriculture just agricultural advisory centers and passed them on to regional governments, management boards, marshals. Dear Minister, In view of the fact that agricultural advisory centres in this system have been operating for 6 years, I would like to ask: Has the Ministry, the Ministry, carried out some analysis, an assessment of the functioning of this system earlier, before 2009, when the Minister of Agriculture had supervision of agricultural advisory centres, and just now, when they are subject to the supervision of marshals? I would also like to ask you, Minister, about the regulation. We read in the explanatory memorandum that the draft amendments adopted require amendments to the relevant regulations as well. I'm talking about the 2005 Minister's regulation. The speakers spoke about it. It's about the pay and financial affairs of ODR employees. Are there plans, in this respect, for the Ministry to change its functioning, for the financial salaries of the workers of agricultural advisory centres? Indeed, there are many years of negligence here, and in my opinion they absolutely require reflection or new proposals, so that agricultural advisory centres are able to fulfil all their responsibilities to the satisfaction of farmers above all. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u141	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Dariusz Bąk.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u142	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The long-awaited change, the pursuit of ordering the area of agricultural advisory in Poland, becomes a fact. Information policy and agricultural advice also include information policy and bringing new trends in agriculture closer to how to raise funds - I think it will finally be fixed. Minister, I have this question: will you, as the supervisor of agricultural advisory centres, influence justice in the allocation of aid at last? Today in the Polish village there was a pathological situation: practically the same people, the same farmers will receive help many times, which the other farmers cannot experience. Pay attention to that, because this is a common problem in the country. Here, one of the representatives of the party, which is called PSL, took care of finance for agricultural advisory centers and made a public wish that there would be at least twice as much money for agricultural advisory centers, twice as much money. And where you, PO and PSL, have been for eight years, [[Applause]] That you've ruined this important and necessary entity like farm advisory centers? [[Do you go to centers in the country?]] You weren't there, ladies and gentlemen, as far as this important topic is concerned, and today it was said that high-class specialists make a minimum wage in agricultural advisory centres. Another appeal and a question at the same time, Minister. Will you begin the process of repairing what has corrupted POs and PSLs? [[You're gonna ruin everything, you're gonna ruin the farm advisory centers.]] It is necessary to throw funds at agricultural advisory centres in a way that is understandable to all. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We are on the verge of drawing up the budget for next year. It has to be done. Members are behind it. Take the initiative and value these important agricultural specialists.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u143	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u144	This is supposed to be the elite in the field of Polish agriculture. Agricultural advisory centres should be elite. Please value them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u145	Thank you, sir. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Bernadet Krynicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u146	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Act is long awaited by agricultural advisory centres and farmers. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Then why isn't there an opinion from there?]] Agricultural advisory centres are to support farmers and Polish agriculture, they are to provide training. The farmer should be assisted in drawing up investment plans, filling in applications and writing applications. The advisor should assist farmers in overcoming, fulfilling complex procedures, reaching for Union funds and grants. My questions are addressed to the applicant. Is the amendment of the legal statute of agricultural advisory bodies - i.e. transforming them into state reorganisation units with legal personality, directly governed by the Minister responsible for rural development - will have a positive impact on the development of agriculture and rural areas? Second question. Will the conversion of agricultural advisory centres into state-owned organisational units lead to improved implementation of the statutory tasks of these entities? Then the question. Will the proposed changes contribute to better control of the proper spending of the special-purpose subsidy transferred by the Minister responsible for rural development to the statutory tasks of agricultural advisory bodies? And one last question. Will the proposed changes improve the quality of advice offered in agricultural advisory bodies and, if so, how? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u147	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr John Duda.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u148	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Agricultural advice is primarily advice to farmers in the area of constantly changing farming, finance, novelty in farming, etc. These services must be properly paid, and this is where we agreed. However, I have this question to the Minister: Were the Ministry - or are there - known problems with the payment of salaries to employees of agricultural advisory centres in 2015? This is what I talked about in my parliamentary statement in January 2016. Question two. So it is that agricultural advisory centers in the periods of the election campaign, whether local government or parliamentary, become specific electoral staffs of a particular political party. Will the Ministry - when we change the law and it will be absolutely responsible for agricultural advisory centers - oppose these practices? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Kwiatkowski - Alderman PiS-u, Ślusarczyk - Alderman PiS-u.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u149	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Stefan Romecki. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u150	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Since we are going to centralise agricultural advisory centers, I have a question: How will the Minister know what problems the agricultural region in Poland is facing? In Małopolska there are also blacks, and lands of lower classes, and so it is all over Poland. How do you want to manage this? One more thing. What will the financial consequences of these changes be for agricultural advisory centres? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u151	Thank you, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please address the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Minister Ryszard Zarudzki. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u152	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for the questions, thank you for the information that has been given. I would like to answer - I do not know if I can answer all - to those which are presented here in a special way. Mr Ardanowski asks how agricultural advisory units will contribute to knowledge transfer and innovation in the new situation of the Minister's subsidiaries. We're planning a new department within the Ministry. There was no such thing. The advice has so far been located in one of the departments of content, and several people have been involved. There will be a new department, a department of science and advice, whose task will be to combine what is best in knowledge, science and transfer it to practice. So it's going to be a transfer of knowledge from science to practice. This is one element, i.e. new competences, new department and related tasks. Because this is due and this is also the reason for managing advice, which in this structure of the Ministry's subordinates will have new tasks resulting from this. But I'm going back to transferring knowledge and innovation. At the level of agricultural advisory units, we are currently working on this system under the Rural Development Programme, a strategy for agricultural innovation. There's resources for that. Moreover, the necessary resources are being mobilised as part of the financing of this advice. Within the framework of the Rural Development Programme, we launch in autumn, in the spring, adequate financial resources to support this process. And the combination of all of this plus this superior function, when it comes to consulting units... We must not forget that we have four such points within the Agricultural Advisory Centre, which will also support this whole process. As far as innovation in agriculture is concerned, there is a whole thought-out agenda, and it takes time. One of these actions is the adoption of a subordinate to the Minister in order to harmonise this diversity, because no one says that there will be no regionalisation of politics, but this diversity needs to be harmonised by methodical work, it needs to be more effectively spent on targeted subsidies. This is how I would address the question of knowledge transfer and innovation. It's important to us. This is the direction which, moreover, is such a task, a cross-cutting goal within the programme. Rural development is conditioned by innovation. And I think we have a lot of... There will be innovation groups, i.e. European knowledge and information transfer groups of the EIP, there are centres, there are local action groups. This is a process we're running. When it comes to other questions related to the financing of advice, it is always very exciting. So let me say this: when it comes to this part of the amendment of the law, it will not have any financial consequences, in this step and in accordance with this law. These financial consequences... It's going to be a two-step phase. At the moment, no, until the end of the year, but within the new budget period, the new budget will be able to change the wage grid, change the financing of advice, take into account needs and halt degradation. It is clear that this is why these changes are planned so that this can be done in the next budgeting period. But that's only since the new one, 2017. As far as financing advice is concerned, it can also be said that at the moment the budget is spending about PLN 150 million for advice. From local government units to individual grants there are 2.8 million, i.e. practically these are the grants concerned. Of course, advice centres, if they are working well and efficient, can apply for different programmes, support from regional operational programmes or other aid measures. Once again, I stress: all these years a year, and in recent years, this has not exceeded 3 million in 150 grants. I am available, I can give you this information, they are generally available by voivodship. We are talking about this holistically - it is about the scale of the approach - not about one advisory centre. Those are the facts. As far as what needs to change, what action we will have to take with regard to the functioning of advice, this makes it easier to determine how governance will change. Because the result is two regulations of the Minister that we will change on the conditions of remuneration for work. For the time being, we will only assume that the Minister will decide this and, as a result, the new budget will regulate it. Two. The entire financial economy will also require... The second regulation concerns the financial economy. Moreover, new statutes will have to be given, social advisory councils, including representatives of the Ministry, will have to be established. So far, there hasn't been a representative of the Ministry on the public council. There will be new organizational regulations for 16 advisory centers, 16 social councils. On the one hand, the codification, but also the search for solutions that will bring good functioning in a given voivodship. And this is the place to change. This is the place for changes in organizational structures. There are also issues related to the approval of annual plans of advisory centres, the approval of price lists and a number of such organisational issues. This trial awaits us. On the other hand, in terms of tasks in terms of functioning, it should also be stressed that we are now talking about a small amendment, but we are also working on a broader approach to the subject of this restructuring in the context of advice, identification of tasks and defining some competence. And that's still ahead of us to discuss by the end of the year. So much for these things. How will the advisory bodies be financed? Still from the state budget. This is one way of financing. The second way of financing is that advice centres themselves will be able to apply for funding. Within the framework of the Rural Development Programme, economic activities will be carried out, there will be broadcasting such activities under the guidance of... or searching for the best possible solutions. The State budget is not the only source of financing for agricultural advisory bodies. I mentioned the organizational structure. With the amendment of the law, a change in the organisational structure will also be examined, but depending on the needs. If something works well, there's no need. But we will also adapt to new tasks, new challenges, for example climate issues. The new challenges are related to the tasks that are put before advice, and here we will look for good solutions. Has the advisory evaluation been carried out before 2009 and now? These assessments are ongoing, but I understand the intentions of the Member. I think that this can still be done in this perspective, such direct delimiting assessments. They were conducted periodically, while here you can look at it according to this profile. And when it comes to justice, of course advice, the quality of his work, on the one hand, there is great respect and great... high quality of the work of advisors, who, despite their existing situation, despite the conditions under which they work, provide these services, provide this information. And I think here these changes that we're making are socially expected. I meet with a number of people, and with farmers on the one hand, and also with advisors themselves, and there is not here, I really haven't met an opinion, except today in Parliament, which would negate this change of authority in agricultural advisory centres. If I left anything out and didn't give any information, I'm at my disposal. Information may also be provided in writing. [[I asked about property matters.]] Property stuff. Oh, thank you so much for reminding me. As far as property matters are concerned, this is exactly how I would like to put it. Since only the legal nature of the voivodship centres is changing, I would like to define property matters quite precisely. Since only the legal nature of the voivodship agricultural advisory centers is changing, land which is the subject of perpetual use, which is the property of the voivodship, will continue to be used in the perpetual use of the voivodship agricultural advisory centers... [[You're giving them power?]] ...as state-owned organisational units with legal personality. Voivodship agricultural advisory centres also retain their assets used so far to carry out farm advisory tasks. However, this is clearly indicated in Article to avoid doubt. 2 of the proposed law. [[But it's still against the Constitution and the Local Government Act.]] Dear fellow Member, this has been consulted very deeply at the Government Legislative Centre with lawyers and this formula, which I have presented here very precisely, so I have tried to quote it directly here. I can only say that, given the validity of the amendments contained in the parliamentary bill, the Council of Ministers welcomes the draft law on amending the law on agricultural advisory units, print No. 572. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u153	Thank you, Minister. The applicant's representative, Mr Robert Telus, asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u154	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! There were some questions addressed to me. I will try to address them and answer these doubts. First of all, in a few votes, there was a charge that these changes were made only in order for staff changes to be made, and that is what the Members of the Civic Platform said. I will say the names: Mr Sowa, Mr Dunin. They can correct me if I lie or misunderstood what they said. [[No, very good, staff changes, very good.]] I was wondering why such accusations [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the case of this law, a law which is very substantive. And I've come to the conclusion that everyone thinks that you can't think that you can do something else, something good, not just doing it, and it's just what you think, for staff change. I know that in order to pursue agricultural policy well, the minister must have tools, must have people who want to pursue it. I can't imagine anything else. And that's clear. And I think here, ladies and gentlemen, there's nothing to argue about and argue about. [[You should have written it.]] If we want to pursue politics, then we should have people in the field who will implement it. I can't imagine any other way. And it's definitely one of the goals, maybe not one of the goals, but one of the tasks, one of the normal facts that should be. [[First of all.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the greatest task, the purpose of this bill, because here was the question of Mrs Joanna Borowiak... The purpose of this law: to restore normality in agricultural advisory centres. [[Oh, no.]] It cannot be as it has been so far, and we have clearly said this in 2010 so that every voivodeship conducts its agricultural policy. I know that there are regions, I know that these regions are changing, but it can't be that the voivodship is leading. Why, among other things? The Minister is responsible for agricultural policy in the country. It's like a department minister. And now, Marshal Owl, you know that the Marshal deals with the whole spectrum of cases, not just agriculture. This agriculture is usually even this - I can't say that all marshals - some marshals push aside because they're not interested, because they're marshals from big cities and they're not interested in agriculture. [[That's not true.]] And the Minister for Agriculture is also responsible for this. The purpose of this law, this change, is precisely to give this issue, the issue of farmers, agriculture, the minister of agriculture, because he is responsible for agricultural policy. Understand this, ladies and gentlemen, and not just accuse us of staff change, because that is not the goal. I think, I don't know, maybe someday you'll understand that Law and Justice have different goals, not what you think, I said, it doesn't make sense that it's just personnel matters. The effects, Mrs Borowiak again. What will be the result? I hope that the result of this law will be strong agricultural advice, specialized agricultural advice and technical agricultural advice, which at the moment, dear country, is lacking. Mr Marshal Owl, Mr Owl, said we didn't know the reality. I'm a farmer, I work in agriculture, an active farmer, I work with farmers, I work with agricultural advisors, and I know how they work right now. Why? Because there is no technological advice at all in Poland, dear country, there is no specialist advice. I'm not saying you don't know anything about it, but that's the facts. It needs to be restored, it needs to be strengthened back, it needs to be changed completely... [[Robert, go, listen, don't be shy. Go, you'll find out.]] ...a form of advice, not only EU proposals, which are needed to help farmers fill them out, but also educational and technological advice, which at the moment does not exist at all. [[Yes.]] That is the goal, and I hope that will be the result of this bill. Mrs Bernadette Krynicka has asked four questions, and I will try to answer them. Will the changes contribute to better control of the proper spending of the special-purpose subsidy provided by the Minister responsible? Of course I do, because the minister will have a direct... What is the situation at the moment, Mr Marshal, Mr Owa explained that money goes from the ministry to the Marshal, some marshals will add to it, some will not contribute and will provide for agricultural advice. This is an illegible scheme, not quite to check. At the moment, the Minister himself will finance the country's farm advisory centers from the budget and will have full control of this. Of course, Commissioner, this will improve control. Next question: Will the changes improve the quality of the advice offered? I already told you that. There is a need to change agricultural advice and this law will, of course, improve the effect of agricultural advice. This is one of the MPs, I think from PSL, talking about these smaller farmers. A farmer, the richer one, the one who has more area, the one who has more breeding, can afford to help himself to pay for a private advisor. Most of the time, he's using a private counselor's help. And the poorer ones, the smaller ones, and these are more than 80% in Poland, cannot afford a private advisor, go to that public adviser. And what do they find? What we have already talked about, I think we all agree, if we are talking about this state, apart from Mr Owl, we all agree that this state is actually weak. At least I'll tell you not to say... at least for the moment weak. I know these changes are gonna make it better. Will the conversion of agricultural advisory centres into national units lead to improved implementation of the statutory tasks of these entities? Madam President, I have said this, of course I have. Will this affect, last question, the good development of Polish agriculture and rural areas? Yes, of course. Thank you for your attention. There'll be corrections, I'll try to relate to that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u155	Thank you. [[Mr. Marshal...]] I understand that, of course, gentlemen will use time in correction mode. [[Yes, sir.]] Please, Mr Marshal Owl, Mr Owl.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u156	Mr. Marshal! Mr President, I have accused you of lying, that you in the Parliamentary Speaker said that the Marshals are getting paid for agricultural advisory services and do not pass it on. That's a lie. You should apologize for that, because no marshal is keeping a penny. The Minister said about the amount that he has statistically, how much they add from their own budgets. I said that from my own budgets, but we started special projects, in these projects these amounts are much bigger. I asked the Minister, and it seems to me that applicants should do exactly the same, i.e. prepare a report, an analysis of what is the evaluation of the functioning of the measures where the problems are. Because as for funding, I agree, it's not like that, I said it very clearly, it's too small a subsidy. In my view, of course, the Minister also has today the full right to request and evaluate the supervision of all those elements which the centres perform as part of their statutory tasks. There are no obstacles here. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We need to do a thorough analysis and then prepare a draft amendment to the bill. If you didn't do it...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u157	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u158	...the effect of this change is that it is only limited to subordinates and staff changes. [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska: Bravo, Mr Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u159	Thank you. Please, also in the manner of correcting Mr Dunin. Here you go, sir, one minute to corrigendum.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u160	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! Yes, here's one you read well that your main task is simply to change the management, the activity. That is also confirmed by the Minister in his statement, saying that this is only the first change, and that you are preparing a second change. Then why don't you completely change everything? Because all you care about is the exchange of human resources. Because he's mediocre, he's passive, but he has to be faithful. That's one thing. One thing I wanted to correct, sir. Please go to this podium and tell Łódź farmers, from the Łódź voivodship, that the Łódź voivodship farm advisory centre is not working well. Come in here and tell me it's not working well, that money is being used badly, that money is wrongly earned from the European Union, and that Marshal Stępień does not give money to agricultural advisory centers. Say it. If you say so, go to confession right away, because you're lying right now. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u161	Ladies and gentlemen, I am asking you with such a huge request. We're almost an hour behind in today's Seym... [[Is this our fault?]] And mutual retreats, returning to confessions are gentlemen outside the Seym Hall. You're welcome, in corrigendum mode, I understand, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u162	I would refer more to Mr Owl's statement than to Mr Dunin. I don't want to... [[You don't want to lie. Right. Respect that you don't want to lie.]] I don't want to go into those personal things that Mr Dunin... When it comes to the Owl and accusing me of lying, it is a little out of context. Once again, I want to say that this funding system, the flow of money is wrong. And I said it should be directly, not by the marshals, because then it raises doubts. If this is misunderstood, then I want to make it right that I mean that the system is to be simple: the ministry is to finance agricultural advisory centers. And this bill ensures it. So I'd like to refer to that. The functioning of agricultural advisory centres throughout the country, also in the Łódź voivodship and in any other voivodship, in such a system is bad functioning and this needs to be corrected. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u163	Thank you. You're still the minister, aren't you? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ryszard Zarudzki: Yes.]] In corrigendum mode, too. You're welcome, Minister, supplemental.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u164	I would like to refer to what Mr Dunin said. I would like to say in this way that one of the arguments behind the fact that we are now conducting a legal act, is that as a consulting centre in Brewinów we apply 28 million within the framework of digital Polish. It is a proposal for the financing of an e-learning advisory platform for advisory centres. We were discriminated against by the voivodship. It must be within a certain period of time so that the application does not fall for formal reasons, subject to the Minister of Agriculture. This has already been very heavily processed by us, which is why we are preparing a financial package for advisory units. One of them is to arm the units, give advisors a certain ability to function better, also using... And this 28 million is very important for the next three years of its operation. Hence the decisions. Some of the planned changes had to be taken out in relation to advisory units so that funds could be raised and moved from the new year, well in advance, with good organisational work for agriculture. I think this is an argument and this is our deliberate action to strengthen, including financially, agricultural advisory units.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u165	Thank you very much. Please, rapporteur? No. Thank you. In that case, the discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft law on the National Media Council and on the amendment of certain laws (prints Nos 592 and 610). I ask Mrs Elżbieta Raven to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u166	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am submitting a report to the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft law on the National Media Council in print No. 592. The need for the adoption of the draft Act on the National Media Council submitted by a group of Members is due to the temporary nature of the Act of 30 December 2015 amending the Act on Radio and Television. Art. 4 of that law indicates 30 June 2016 as the last day of its validity. The need for a new regulation therefore arises from the decision of the legislator himself. Let me remind you that the December Act was the first stage of the reform of Polish public media aimed at establishing a system of national media. On the other hand, the submission discussed today refers to the creation of a National Media Council, which will carry out legal activities concerning the structure and personal composition of public bodies of radio and television broadcasting, with a view to their thorough fulfilment of their statutory tasks and to protecting their editorial independence and independence from the executive authority in terms of content and form of transmissions. The National Media Council is granted competence to carry out certain activities which the December Act temporarily granted to the Treasury Minister. The composition of the National Media Council guarantees for the first time in the history of Polish public media the participation of representatives of the parliamentary opposition in the direct exercise of this supervision. At its 20th meeting on 10 June 2016, the Sejm addressed the bill to the Committee on Culture and Media for consideration. At its meeting on 14 June, the committee considered the draft, accepting the comments of the Legislative Bureau and the amendments. Among them, the most important is the return to writing the article. Article 6 (6) (a) 2 of the Act on Radio and Television, stating that it is the task of the National Council to design, in particular, in agreement with the President of the Council of Ministers, the lines of State policy in the field of radio and television, and an amendment to withdraw from the limitation of the number of members of the National Council of Radio and Television to three. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Commission proposes that the High Sejm adopt the draft attached to the report. At the request of the applicants, the committee shall also present four minority applications submitted by Members of the Civic Platform Club and the Modern Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u167	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Barbara Bubula, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u168	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the parliamentary bill on the National Media Council after the necessary corrections made during the work of the Committee on Culture and Media. Furthermore, we would like to make some necessary amendments at second reading. I am handing these amendments over to the marshal here. This bill represents a necessary stage in the reform of public media in our country, which will lead to good governance and funding. Let me remind you that the so-called projects tabled by a group of members from our club more than a month ago. a large media law and an audiovisual contribution law, print No 442, 443 and 444, according to the opinion of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, will require notification to the European Commission before entry into force. It is therefore not possible for them to enter into force on 1 July 2016 and 1 January 2017 respectively. In this state of affairs, it has become necessary to exclude from the major reform those provisions which raise no doubt about the need to notify them to the authorities of the European Union. The proposed act abolishes the temporarily introduced independence of the authorities of TVP, Polish Radio and regional companies of the treasure minister in January. The National Media Council, the statutory task of which, according to the project, is to be the competent authority in matters of the appointment and cancellation of personal warehouses of public radio and television bodies and units and of the Polish Press Agency, as well as to carry out its work in accordance with the principles of ensuring that companies fulfil their statutory tasks properly, protecting their independence and editorial independence. This project is intended to serve as a result of better public media performance of the mission, which, in our view, should be extended and properly secured also financially. The public mission of national radio and television institutions should be, according to our club, the Law and Justice Club, obtaining and disseminating reliable information from the country and abroad. The mission should be to cultivate national traditions and patriotic and humanistic values, to contribute to meeting the spiritual needs of listeners and viewers, to awaken and satisfy their comprehensive interests. Finally, this mission should be to promote the achievements of Polish and world science and artistic creation and to promote various forms of civic activity. The mission of these media should also be to offer the public and its various parts of diverse radio and television programmes and information, publicity, culture, education, sport and entertainment services, which will also be provided by the Polish Press Agency, with the principles of impartiality, pluralism, independence and high quality. The ultimate goal of a good change in the national media system is to provide them with adequate public funding so that they do not lack money for children's programmes, historical series, documentary and natural films, theater and popular science education, promotion of health or family, for anything that does not stand a chance against commercial media, which allows for the development of creative and professional good journalists. As a result of a whole series of changes proposed by us, we also want to strengthen the regional radio stations of the Polish Radio, so that television centres in each voivodeship city are centres of local culture and audiovisual works, so that public reports and debate are about the development of the Polish community. The next step to all this is the bill discussed today. The PiS Club is determined to make national media as a result of proposed legal changes a strong bastion of our community and sovereignty. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u169	Thank you, Member. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasinska. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u170	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, As a matter of fact, your hands are falling down. For the third time in a row, Parliament is placed on the alert to carry out supposedly some fundamental reform of public media and for the third time in a row we actually receive a product that is not particularly suitable for anything. I think Mrs Bubula is aware of this, because she devoted 7/8 of her speech to discussing projects that we are not doing today, just talking about how she wanted it to be. So it might be beautiful, but working on that set of laws has been stopped and we don't really know until when, for what and how. We know more or less why, because we've been here all along telling you what the flaws are. We have this situation that in December you did, you proposed a staff bill and passed, with an advantage in the House, you gave public media to the treasury minister. There was a rapid exchange of all possible authorities from the management level, ended with a basic one. As we know, almost 200 people have lost their jobs as a result of this brilliant reform of yours. Then there was this set of three laws, which in the meantime made two laws, and then none. And here we have a draft law on the National Media Council, prepared in a frenzy. Unfortunately, we do not know, because the Member has not discussed the amendments which her club, the author of this law, proposes here, so I find it difficult to say. Perhaps some evident bubble from this bill has been removed in these amendments, but I do not know that, so I must refer to what we have been working on in committee and what we have received as a starting product. So just because the National Media Council is going to be set up doesn't mean that these media are going to get any better, because they're getting worse so far. That's what everyone sees, everybody hears. Viewers and listeners are decreasing, and anxiety, as far as direction is concerned, is coming. The council you are proposing is a purely political party body. It's just like the goat parable. A multi-child family came to a wise rabbi and says it's very tight. What's there to do to make things better? The rabbi said buy yourself a goat. So they bought a goat, and then it was tighter. He comes for advice, and he says, "Get the goat out." And this is the kind of goat you gave us here because when you gave the media to the treasure minister's armpit, it really was government management, and now you're giving it to your political officers, because that's what this bill says, you say it's a denial. I apologize, but during the committee's work, minority proposals were submitted and, in fact, their recognition should probably be subject to the support of this law. As for my club, on behalf of which I am currently acting, I would like to say that if the category of persons who cannot sit on the Council of National Media is not included in the appointment of a Member or a Senator, then, of course, we will not support your bill in any case, because it will clearly be a political jump, a party to this media. Similarly, since you are so proud that you are introducing some pluralism, please ask: there is a minority request which, as it were, sanctions this pluralism, that decisions are taken by a majority of 2/3, as is the case in the national council, which is also five-member and where decisions are taken by a majority of 2/3. Well, then we'll just have to sort things out. If you want to choose three of your colleagues or three of your colleagues here, leaving the President with a choice of four candidates and two allegedly opposition candidates, and the decisions are made by 3:2 votes, then I really do not know if there will be an opposition club for this game and for the company of your jump, the next jump to the media, will agree. To sum up: we are waiting - I am curious about the amendments - for the final effect, we are waiting for the minority proposals to be dealt with, and then you will do it as you do. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I hope you'll stop playing with us and the public. public media reform. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u171	Thank you, Member. Before I ask Mr Piotr Liroy-Marc to speak, I would like to welcome the representation most likely of the Brest Youth Council. That's the information I got. [[Applause]] I think it's this group, which I hope at least, and if it isn't, we greet you very warmly too. Please take the floor of Mr Liroy-Marc. [[Voice from the room: There isn't. He didn't make it.]] He didn't make it. In that case, Mr Grzegorz Furgo.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u172	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Speaking on behalf of the Modern Club, I feel a little embarrassed. We speak of the National Media Council and the great media reform from the Seym tribune for the fifth or sixth time in the last six months, and I have the impression that this is some unfinished nightmare. Every time it's about a big reform, and we wake up in the cold then, I think it's about jumping staff and stools again. Turning to substance - this time we are considering a law that replaced the three laws that Law and Justice wanted to deal with three weeks ago. There was supposed to be a great reform of the way public media was financed, a great reform of the way they worked, and a prosthesis came out of the prosthetic. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill violates the article. 213 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland, according to which the body responsible for the implementation of the public media mission is the National Council of Radiophony and Television. The Constitutional Tribunal has repeatedly stressed that, in accordance with the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the application of this Regulation. 1 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland and the Act on Radio and Television The National Council of Radiophony and Television upholds the freedom of expression and independence of the media and is responsible for carrying out a public mission which is in the public interest, radio and television. Also on the basis of the article. 61 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland is indicated in the doctrine that the Constitution does not prohibit the operation of several state bodies in matters of radio and television, but all of them must be subject to the National Council of Radio and Television, and to such an extent as to avoid any threat. Are the goods indicated - freedom of speech, the right to information and the public interest - protected on radio and television? Ladies and gentlemen, there has never been such a low level of programming on television, and hence a decrease in ratings. Today's public television is often carried out by people without moral spine, and also without the necessary professionalism. It was never booed so precisely and strongly by the president of any television, and it was done with the president of Polish Television at the festival in Opole. This indicates the opinion of Poles about today's television. After all, there will be no signal from the nominated executives to the executives to get us closer to the standards of the dream BBC. Today, a good change in the media is associated with lies and lies. People working in the media don't want politicians talking for them, they want a real impact on public media. Ladies and gentlemen, you're starting another staff spiral, because for three months you're going to verify people who can work in public or national media. You're gonna throw the uncomfortable ones out, you're gonna break the moral spine again, because these people have to live out of something. Ladies and gentlemen, you are breaking the legal order in Poland because you know that in chaos it is easier to rule. You create mutually competing structures just to make it easier to rule by winning one group against the other. The modern wants a simple country, one that does not consist of facade institutions controlled by politicians. We want public media reform and we are ready to discuss it. This law does not solve any real problem and for these reasons the Modern will vote against it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u173	Thank you, sir. It turned out, ladies and gentlemen, that, however, representatives of the Bydgoszcz middle school are listening to us, so we greet the middle school students from Bydgoszcz. [[Applause]] Please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u174	Mr. Marshal! Minister! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour on behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club to present our position on the report of the committee on the draft law on the National Media Council, print Nos 592 and 610. It appears that there will be no large media law from 1 July 2016 nor an audiovisual fee from 1 January 2017. The media law challenged by the Council of Europe, in particular on issues of the National Media Council, the independence of journalists, collective redundancies and audiovisual charges, is replaced by another project. This time it's the National Media Council Act. Once again, we are dealing with a hasty way of working on this law, which makes it impossible to carry out such an important area of public consultation. In our opinion, the project discussed today is in contradiction with the systemic tasks resulting from the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. This is clearly demonstrated by the newly proposed regulation on fundamental issues, in particular the establishment of the National Media Council. The solutions proposed in this draft law violate the Constitution as they create the so-called. competition with a constitutional body, which is the National Radio and Television Council. The appointment of the National Media Council is an attempt to circumvent the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. Members of the council, as has already been written by the previous speakers, cannot be current members of the government or local government. But the project does not close the road to parliamentarians or former politicians. As regards qualifications, the only condition is the indeterminate distinction between knowledge and experience in media-related matters. The bill thus introduces control of politicians over the activity and transmission of public media and thus gives the possibility to use these media as a political tool in the public debate and the competences of the radio committee are worthy. The National Media Council is to appoint members of the boards and supervisory boards of the Polish Television and Polish Radio, including the presidents of both of these institutions. The National Media Council will take over all the powers of the Minister of Treasury. The Council is also to appoint the members of the TVP and Polish Radio Programme Councils and to set their diets. According to the project, members of the board will have the right to participate in the general assembly of Polish Television and Polish Radio. The statutes of these companies will be amended at the request or with the prior agreement of the National Media Council. In conclusion: public media in Poland according to the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party were on the sharp corner. New regulation on public media means their politicisation, weakening independence and centralisation of governance. At the same time, they do not address the many important problems and challenges facing them, the dilemmas of technological development, the wider representation of the social and cultural structure, the reflection of pluralism, political views, active participation in civil society. This law is a specific act of a staffing nature. The Polish People's Party evaluates it very negatively and will be against its adoption if this project retains its current shape. In order to improve the project, we allow ourselves to make amendments which I hereby allow to pass on to the marshal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u175	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Margaret Zwierzan.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u176	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed establishment of the National Media Council envisages a new way of overseeing the management of public media. In the proposed amendment to the Act on Radio and Television, the National Media Council is to appoint members of the Management Boards and Supervisory Boards of TVP and Polish Radio, including presidents, which in the current legislation belongs to the competence of the Minister of Treasury. Until January this year. The National Radio and Television Council had the right to choose supervisory boards and to appoint public radio and television boards, which showed stubbornness and inability to properly discharge its constitutional responsibility during the last election campaign in 2015, when so-called. Public media served as an electoral advertising agency for the governing coalition. And this is just one example of subjugating public media to one centre without the possibility of democratic control. The proposed National Media Council is to include five members, three of whom are to be appointed by the Sejm and two are to be appointed by the President. The candidates for members of the Council appointed by the President shall be represented by parliamentary opposition clubs. This is a very important innovation from the point of view of democratic control of public media and transparency of personal decisions, and the principle of their independence and the prohibition of joining board membership with employment in the sphere of executive power guarantee that for the first time in their history Polish public media will be completely independent of executive power both in terms of personnel and programming. High Izbo! The proposed establishment of a public media council envisages major changes in the management of public media. They offer an opportunity to increase democratic control of public media in our country. I am aware that the solutions applied will not satisfy everyone and it is possible to discuss the final shape of the bill for a long time, I have a lot of doubts myself. However, I believe that rapid changes are needed, and because a compromise is needed to make them, near Free and Solidarnia will vote in favour of the proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u177	Thank you, Member. Because there is still time for the Modern Club, Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski. Yes? [[Yes, sir.]] You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u178	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Because we always have little time to debate, so we can't waste a second. I use that time, of course. I would like to say to you that, following the implementation of the Constitutional Tribunal Resolution Act, following the Surveillance Act, after the Anti-Terrorism Act, which drastically limits the rights of democratic freedom, after the introduction of the CBA into the Marshal's offices, you break the State's Article. 73 constitutions about the right to creative freedom are breaking the state's freedom of speech. Therefore, the Media Act is an extremely consistent step in this chaotic process of building an anti-democratic State of the PiS. You're creating the conditions for us to simply become an incapacitated society. I know you're incarcerated by the president and objectified, but we're free citizens. Therefore, I wonder what the PiS and the PiS will look like. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What categories will we think in the future? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u179	Thank you, sir. This time I would certainly like to welcome the representatives of the Brzesko Junior Council from the Lesser Poland Voivodeship. Welcome. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, six parliamentarians have joined the questions. If there are no more reports, I will close the list of people who are enrolled in the question. Question time - 1 minute. Please, Mr Grzegorz Furgo will be the first to speak. [[1.5.]] This moan of disappointment is due, Madame, to the fact that we are probably 1.5 hours behind schedule, that is why. Not that I'd want to limit your time here.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u180	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask the Minister what will be the responsibility of the members of the National Media Council for their decisions, because the law does not state the legal basis for this responsibility. Second thing. How will the Senate play the role of dealing with information from activities which the National Media Council is required to submit annually to the Sejm, the Senate, the President and President of the Council of Ministers and the National Radio and Television Council? Because according to the article. 2 The Council consists of five members, of which three are appointed by the Sejm and two are appointed by the President of the Republic of Poland. The Senate of the Republic of Poland therefore does not participate in the appointment of members of the National Media Council and does not impose constitutional obligations on it concerning radiophony and television. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u181	Thank you, sir. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Margaret Płępek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u182	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The ruling party believes that by mastering the public media, its politicians will provide political support. Meanwhile, thanks to your changes and the release of journalists, the audience of public television is steadily decreasing. This bridge law still does not specify what competences candidates to the National Media Council should have. There is no ban on party membership or the simultaneous role of Member or Senator. The Council has among others. appoint public television authorities, Polish Radio and the Polish Press Agency. What's the record for? Is this about PiS independence? After all, President Kaczyński has already announced that Mr. Kurski will still be president of TV, whether or not. He ridicules our country by issuing the crosswords. [[♪ The bell ♪]] during the match Poland - Germany. The independence of public media is well documented by publishing programs and information programmes, which are currently simply independent of reality. Is that what this good change is supposed to be like? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u183	Thank you, Member. If you don't mind, just a little point. [[The voice from the hall: The crossmen are not patriotic?]] ...not that I'm here as Mr. Kurski's attorney, but as a living man, I don't think Henryk Sienkiewicz's novel "Krzyzacy" or the excellent screening of the "Krzyzaków" by Alexander Ford would make us laugh, on the contrary. [[Applause]] [[In the middle of a game. It's inappropriate during the game.]] I would very much like to ask the floor of Anna Elizabeth Sobecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u184	Thank you, Marshal. High Izbo! Minister! I have a polite request because people are asking me why we want to set up a National Media Council, while in the Constitution there is a National Radio and Television Council. We know that we want to deprive the national board of prerogatives, which makes it the sovereign regulator of the media, which should be impartial, and the authority exercising powers in the area of ownership supervision towards entities representing public property. We are aware that this combination makes it very difficult to perform all these functions, so I would ask you very much to do so. [[♪ The bell ♪]] An explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u185	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mrs Marta Golbik, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u186	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question about politicising members of the National Media Council. It involves taking over media power directly by the politicians of the parliamentary majority. Art. 3 of the current legislative proposal states that the members of the Council are independent in the performance of their functions, serving the public good. Only my question is: How can this be reconciled with belonging to a political party, to a parliamentary club, which is linked to certain responsibilities and party rigors? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u187	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u188	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I cordially welcome the representatives of the National Radio and Television Council, President of the Court, because I don't think they've been greeted by your marshal. I would like to address Mr Czabanski with the following question. Well, you're proposing that there should be five members on the National Media Council, three appointed by the Sejm and two by the President. Don't you think that's how you limit President Duda's plenipotence? That's one thing. Secondly, would you not like, Minister, and you - I would like to address the Members and Members of the PiS - but try to engage in some kind of social dialogue by changing the number of people on the National Media Council? Instead of five people, we could introduce them. Six, so that there are three people from the opposition and three people from the ruling party, because, of course, there's no way they're from outside politics. Then we'd have a chance, perhaps, [[♪ The bell ♪]] for some real dialogue and an attempt to agree. Consider it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u189	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Dariusz Piontkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u190	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Listening to representatives of the opposition, especially the one who until recently ruled, it may be felt that the public media over the last 8 years have been at the heart of pluralism, objectivity and journalistic independence. Today, you are talking about an attempt to politicise the media, and just look at how the National Radio and Television Council, each of which is clearly linked to individual political centres, worked. Some have been called, not even by those who hold their office by choice, only when they have served as president. Others are linked to individual political parties. Hence the question to the Minister. Is this view of the situation presented by today's opposition that the media so far, under the rule of the PO and PSL, were objective and independent, the Minister shares? That's one thing. And two. In what way will the National Media Council be better and allow for even greater pluralism in public or national media? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will this be achieved with at least some members of the National Media Council coming from the opposition? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u191	Thank you, sir. We've exhausted the list of people who are written down for questions. At this point, he asked the President of the National Radio and Television Council, Mr Jan Dworak, to speak. You're welcome, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u192	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This time I just want to focus on a few things that haven't been raised so far, except for the first one. The first one that sounded here in a few or several Members' statements on politicisation, unfortunately I have to say again, because this is a fundamental matter. Indeed, allowing the National Media Council to be active politicians and, as you can see from this construction, the politicians of the parliamentary majority are denying the independence of the media. Maybe this is an indirect answer to the question of the last Member. This is, however, a denial written directly in the law, and not only one which can be presumed by a certain custom or by certain facts which are subject to different interpretations. So I would like to make this very clear, but I would also like to say a little bit more about something that has not been discussed here. Namely politicization or rather no politicization It is not just that they can and are represented by Members of the majority and minorities. Politics is generally based on the fact that politicians and politicians can sit there without exception. After all, it is not that politicians cannot make any decisions or be present in bodies that are designed by a high parliament. They can. It is only important to note other ways people operate in society. Creative environments should be noted, NGOs should be noted and they should be given the opportunity to influence and this is a significant influence on the shape of national media. This is the first case, the basic case that I've been talking about, and I'm telling you, because I feel like I have to repeat it. Now I'd like to focus on three specific issues. The first thing in particular is that there are no competitions. However, until now national media authorities, those which will be national and so far public, have been selected in competitions, the conditions of which were laid down in the Regulation. I know you're questioning the objectivity of these competitions, but I think that writing down certain objective conditions doesn't prevent you from making better choices. So I would ask for competitions that would limit the discretion of the National Media Council or the majority of the National Media Council. Second thing. There's no description of the program board in the bill. The competences of the supervisory boards and the media board are described, while programme boards and how they are shaped are omitted. You'd have to describe it somehow. Finally, it is not true that the executive authority will have nothing to say in the National Media Council or in the national media. Well, it will, because the record that the general meetings are held is deleted, and the representative of the Treasury is the Minister of the Treasury. In my opinion, these relations between the National Media Council and the owner of the media, which, I understand, is quite inconclusively written, but so it can be presumed - remains the Minister of the Treasury, should somehow be defined in this Act in order to avoid practical misunderstandings. That's it at this stage. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u193	Thank you, Mr President. And please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, Minister Krzysztof Czabański.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u194	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! I kind of feel like I'm in such an unreal theater. A Member of the Civic Platform and a Member of the Polish People's Party have presented us here with such a vision of a wonderfully functioning public media: apolitical, apartmentic. [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: We?]] It's just that the state has been trying to destroy those media over the years. And what we're doing right now is trying to rebuild public media. I don't want to remind you of known things, known actions against public media. I read on the Internet that you're signing with organizations today or tomorrow... [[Member Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: We have signed.]] You've already signed it. ...a further pact on the media bill. As I understand it, maybe you'll break it again, just like before. [[Mr Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: We haven't broken one yet, Minister.]] That's what it looks like. It's pure PR, but on this PR far, in my opinion, you won't get there. Our main goal is, first of all, actually the pluralization of the body, which is a kind of trusting advice over public media. So this National Media Council is part of a trust board and part of such a public media supervisory board. I would like to remind you that at these five places we legally guarantee the opposition clubs, and so far the opposition had no guarantees. Over the years of your reign, it was intercourse: everything - you, zero - opposition. And that was the relationship, Mr Mieszkowski. If you're talking about a threat, remember what's been going on over the years. It was five-to-zero on the national council. And you're telling me to do three out of three now. We did three out of two. You say to do that by qualified majority... If you have five to zero, you can vote by qualified majority, you can come up with different formulas. I know that President Jan Dworak will say that there were people pointed out by the SLD on the national council. Yeah, except that people from the SLD together with people from the Platform and PSL over most of the third Polish Republic ruled Polish media. The platform had different names at the time. PSL and SLD were the same, the platform was called in different ways, the governments were the same. [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: No.]] But this is history, this has already happened, so you won't deny it, although of course you will try to deny it. Our first step is to enter a mandatory place for the opposition, two seats in five, so that it stays in the Polish law. If there ever comes a power that doesn't like it, because it prefers a five-to-zero ratio, it's gonna have to do it at the open courthouse, say it doesn't want to let the opposition in. We do this on this board of trustees, among others. To make it a permanent instrument in parliament. We also want to stop with some hypocrisy that the national council is a body, a flying being somewhere - with all due respect, Mr President - under the heavens, there are apolitical angels sitting there and just looking after the public media. We know it's not. These are politically active people, politically bound, even if they formally surrender mandates or credentials, they are politically well placed. I have no objection to this because we are dealing with a great public property, so people involved in the public sphere should be able to supervise this property somehow. Let's just not tell each other stories here. Let us strive to ensure that people from different parts of the public and political scene are in this body, and let us not tell ourselves stories that this body is taken Somewhere out there with the ideals that you're talking about here a lot. Mr Mieszkowski, I hear about this in your opinion, the threat of pluralism, freedom of speech. I would ask you very much to remember what happened to public media after the Smolensk disaster from 2010 to autumn last year. If you remember that, you're gonna be stuck in your throat with those words, what you said. [[Applause]] I hope that gives you some reflection. The first thing is this case I was talking about: creating such a pluralist trust board for public media. It's the second big thing. I say this mainly to Members of the Modern Clubs and Kukiz, because with the Platform it, in fact, has nothing to talk about, they have shown what they think about public media, through practice. [[We can't match you.]] Yes, of course not, because we want to fix them, and you wanted to destroy them. You wanted to destroy them. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] That's the truth. You wanted to destroy them with your friends and friends. [[Game in the O.R.]] You've done it consistently. Well, you guys did it all the time. [[Don't insinuate such things here.]] I'm not insinuating, I'm stating the facts, ma'am. [[No, you're the one who's wrong, not the facts.]] I don't know. The facts may be wrong. I'm not wrong. Ma'am, you know what? You'd better... Oh, well, I'm not getting into that kind of conversation. [[Maybe you'd better bite your tongue.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u195	Dear Members, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister, please... Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Krzysztof Czabański: So this step is to be, on the one hand, this kind of trust board, which is supposed to provide a pluralistic view of these media, Mr Furgo. And here I am addressing you because with you in committee, the discussions on the project are very factual, with all your criticism, which is natural and normal. But in addition to this pluralism, this is a step towards achieving synergies between these media. After all, please note that so far these media have been weakened and they have operated separately - Polish Press Agency, Polish Television and Polish Radio. The National Media Council makes it possible for them to act together, to cooperate, to achieve synergies in the media market, i.e. to strengthen public media immeasurably. This enters the media market a large player, potentially a large player, which can be used in any other way, especially if you succeed in repairing finance, which is of course the basis for further action. But, as you know, there are announcements that these finances, destroyed by the Civic Platform, are going to be trying to fix them. [[Member Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: Finances, as Poles give or do not give.]] Your fellow Member, knowingly, coldly slaughtered the public media. Yes, wave your hand, wave your hand to the owners of these media, to the citizens, shake your hand on them, please, they'll be very happy to see you waving your hand. Consciously, coldly, you destroyed it, you did it. And that will not be forgiven. This will not be forgiven and you will not be forgotten. If we can achieve this effect that a large player enters the media market, this player, in whose case the trust board is the eyes of different political parties, we will be able to create a forum for a real public debate, for shaping the public opinion and for protecting the Polish state of affairs. And that's what's important. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you. Mr Dariusz Piontkowski submitted a corrigendum. Here you go, sir, one minute to correct.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u196	Mr. Marshal! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. High Izbo! Mr Dworak mentioned my speech on the occasion of the politicisation of public media surveillance, clearly suggesting that the situation in which individual members of the National Council of Radio and Television, who had a major impact on what was happening in public media, were unclear threads linked to individual parties or centres of power, was better. At the beginning of the 19th century, politicians at the congress in Vienna called for open democracy so that there would be no secret agreements. Franklin Delano Roosevelt called for the same thing in the early 20th century. Do we today, after decades of functioning of the democratic system in Poland, call again for these political links to be clear? Is the situation where individuals specifically linked to individual political parties make public decisions about national media better or worse than those in which they are secretly linked to each other? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Members of the National Council have taken similar decisions to politicise the public media over the last few years? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u197	Thank you, sir. And the question is, is the rapporteur of the committee still at this point... Member of the Commission, or rapporteur... No. Thank you. In that case, the discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Culture and Media in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report of the National Radio and Television Council in 2015 together with information about the basic problems of radio and television in 2015 (print No. 392) and the Commission's draft resolution (print No. 616). I ask the President of the National Radio and Television Council of Mr Jan Dworak to present a report. You're welcome, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u198	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The National Radio and Television Council composed of Jan Dworak, Witold Graboś, Krzysztof Luft, Stefan Pastuszka, Sławomir Rogowski started work on 4 August 2010. The activity report in 2015 covers the last full year of our six-year term. The first half of the year will be formally included in the report already discussed by the next president. And yet it is a six-month pregnant event in the media, and it is the present National Radio and Television Council that owes its assessment. For these reasons, I will discuss matters in a broader context than usual. Together with the report, the National Radio and Television Council always presents information about the basic problems of radio and television, which is an important supplement to the report, describing the state of the audiovisual market in Poland last year against the background of neighbouring markets: the Internet, the telecommunications sector and the press and cinema. Both documents were unanimously adopted by the National Radio and Television Council on 8 March this year. The processes of globalisation and media penetration resulting from rapid technological change have affected radical changes in media use, especially for young generations. The information describes the directions of these changes, especially the prevailing trend of mobile and individual media reception today. Recording requires the speed and ease of sharing content created by users, which in an unimaginable way increases the amount of information prepared amateurly. Such information is most often placed on social networking websites. So a new type of journalism was born, widely used by content providers today. Global access to such numerous sources makes it possible to draw information almost without barriers. In this unlimited space, the ability to properly select data, without which it is easy for recipients to undergo political or advertising manipulation, has become socially fundamental. These rapid changes are happening right in front of us. The activity report in 2015 shall include information on the performance of the statutory tasks of the National Council. Developing a constitutional standard with Article. 213, these tasks can be defined in several points. These are: accessibility, diversity and independence of the media, equal competition of broadcasters, protection of children and young people in the media and proper spending of public money. The consistent development of competitive, as widely accessible to consumers of the electronic media market is one of the main tasks of the National Council, carried out through an informed concession policy. In recent years, TV audiences have received an extended and diverse set of programs that can be accessed in various ways: digital terrestrial multiplexes, Internet television and on-demand services. Polish radio has started a difficult process of digitization of radio broadcasting during this period, which also aims to enrich the offer of the entire radio market. The legal system is too slow to respond to these dynamic developments in the media market. The National Council worked with the various institutions to monitor and analyse these changes. Three main areas of such work can be identified. The first one is REFIT. In preparing for the revision of the Audiovisual Media Services Directive, the European Commission has launched legal work on national regulations. At European level, two organisations were involved in this work, of which Poland is a member represented by representatives of the National Council. These are the European Platform of Regulators for the EPRA, [[European Platform for Regulators Authorities]] which Poland co-founded 20 years ago, bringing together 52 national regulators, and the European Regulators Group for Audiovisual Media Services ERGA, [[European Regulators Group for Audiovisual Media Services]] set up by the European Commission in 2013. It acts as a high-level group, bringing together the Presidents of the audiovisual market regulators from the Union. I was vice-president of this group until the end of last year. The main tasks of the group of ERGA regulators were to review REFIT, i.e. the Fitness and Performance Programme, a programme of regulatory efficiency and efficiency for the existing audiovisual directive. On the basis of REFIT, the European Commission has recently published a draft revision of the Directive on 25 May. The changes concern several key areas of media operation: the extension of regulatory competence to providers of audiovisual file sharing platforms, and this is a very important issue, the protection of minors in linear and non-linear media, procedures related to the effective control of delocalised programmes, the promotion of European programmes and changes in the provision of commercial communications, in particular advertising and product placement. The European Commission has recognised and stressed the increased role of regulators both at national and EU level. The revision of the Directive strengthens the position and independence of regulators such as the national council and adds, and in association, and in the organisation of the ERGA, to the institutional order of the European Commission. The National Council of Radiophony and Television together with representatives of the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage prepared Poland's positions on specific issues under review by REFIT. The second area of project work was the area related to the analysis of the current system of national media law, resulting from the practice of the national council. The de lege ferenda, prepared on the basis of many years and experience, sought to simplify concession procedures, in particular satellite and cable concessions, and to create more favourable conditions for the development of local and civic media. The previous government took account of the de lege ferenda provisions, including through the Minister of Culture the draft amendments to the list of legislative work of the Council of Ministers. The continuation of the project just before the parliamentary path was put on hold due to the parliamentary calendar of the electoral campaign. This project, known as deregulation labour, should return to the legislative path as soon as possible, as the solutions contained there serve the interests of the public, improve the functioning of the market and make fuller use of the benefits of the development of transmission techniques. This kind of legal change has been proposed by the National Council for many years, even before the current composition of the Council began to fulfil its responsibilities, this issue was raised. The third area of project work was linked to the need to fully implement the State aid rules in the financing of public media. The project, run from the Polish side by the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection in cooperation with the Ministry of Culture and the National Council, was prepared in accordance with the requirements and recommendations of the European Commission, among others. with regard to the clarification of the concept of public service mission, the establishment of supervisory rules and the clearance of public funds and the concreteisation of public service broadcasters' tasks in the so-called "public service'. It's a duty card. The consultation took place since March 2013 on an agreed timetable and is currently in the final phase. Their further fate depends on the position of the current government and the conclusion of discussions in the European Commission. This area of work is linked to the actions taken by the National Council to improve the supervision of the public media's spending of social money from the subscription. The Radio and Television Act, revised in August 2010, introduced a new mechanism for planning and clearing public service missions. Public funds shall be allocated to specific statutory tasks for the implementation of such a mission. Public broadcasters shall draw up annual programming and financial plans taking into account the operating and development costs of companies in these plans. The procedure for submitting plans is governed by the Regulation. The process of assessing the financial and programme plans shall terminate the resolution adopted by the national board declaring their agreement. After 2 years of the new mission planning and clearance mechanism, a system of preferences was put in place. It turned out that the programming plans were constructed by public media companies quite carefully, without systematically enriching their content or reaching for noble species of radio and television art. The list of preferences shall be set by the national board each year and shall take into account both important events of national rank, e.g. election campaigns or World Youth Days this year, as well as socially relevant topics, a series of programmes devoted to civic education or various aspects of young people entering adult life, issues relating to new technologies, in particular educational programmes, programmes facilitating the reception of works of art and culture or promoting sport. Each year, the catalogue of preferences included expensive performances, but also the most valuable radio and television species not realized by commercial broadcasters, such as: auditoriums, reports, documentary films, performances of the Television Theatre. Several years of the achievements of the National Council and its offices in building together with the broadcasters of the system of financial and programme agreements should also be expanded in the following years. It makes it possible to significantly enrich the programme of broadcasters with programmes aimed at meeting the important needs of a democratic society, channelling social resources to public broadcasters accordingly and controlling the purpose and the way in which they are issued. In parallel with the implementation of the financial and programme agreements, work has been undertaken by the National Council to prepare a new model for financing public media. As a result of these works, several detailed expert analyses were created, and on the basis of them the development of a new model of functioning of public media in Poland. This development, for the first time in a comprehensive way, was presented together with other documents to the President of the Council of Ministers and to the ministers of the current government. The government's representative for the preparation of public radio and television reform received complete documentation of analyses and estimates, which were the basis for the development of a new model, and the model itself was presented during the discussions of the working group at the Ministry of Culture. This documentation was also forwarded to the authorities of the Sejm and the Senate of the Republic of Poland. Unfortunately, the multi-monthly work of the experts and the national council was celebrated in one sentence in the explanatory memorandum to the bill and rejected. For unknown reasons, this model was not analysed by so-called authors. The meter bill. Today, when the new public media funding system is being re-examined, I will once again remind you of the advantages of the model developed in the National Council. The state register - the most reliable and simplest to use data source is the reference resources of the State, and the most efficient collection apparatus is the services of the Minister of Finance. The individual nature of the contribution - the concept of a household is legally difficult to define in the current system, the best is to define the payer as the person who obtains the taxable income. Regulatory supervision - funds from contributions would be transferred by the Minister of Finance's services directly to the account of the National Council in order to maintain the independence of public media funding. A valuable programme - the contribution will be allocated to valuable, publicly presented programme proposals and advertising in public media will be limited to 3 minutes per hour. The quality fund means promoting valuable projects carried out by commercial operators. This would be possible if the legitimate needs of public media were fully met in a given period. The system presented here in general generates the lowest transaction costs and also uses a specialised state apparatus, not market operators, which, as in the case of electricity suppliers, need to be paid commercially. The only entity to be involved is the Ministry of Finance. In view of the prospect of integrating the various public danins and downloading them by the tax system in the near future, the prospect of including tributes in the public media in this system seems all the more justified. We therefore fully support the proposal drawn up in the National Council as the most appropriate model for financing public media. The data collected in our analysis and the lessons drawn from them allow for the development of mature assumptions of the new law governing the financing of public media. It must be stressed that public media funding is a matter that directly affects the development of the entire audiovisual market and remains within a group of issues which are highly expected by the market, and in particular by its most modern forms of management, by cultural and knowledge-based industries. The current financing model is also linked to the system for processing applications for redemption or distribution of late subscription fees into instalments. This is a serious social problem, which we have repeatedly informed the Sejm and the Senate about by organizing, among others. Special meeting of parliamentarians at the Council's seat on ul. Sobieski. We have reported that it is an inefficient and particularly vulnerable system for the elderly and with the lowest income. Finally, it is important to make it clear that the legislator did not take advantage of the analytical work of the national council, and so far - fortunately - the proposals for changes to the audiovisual fee appear to have been chaotic and fruitless. Moreover, public announcements of subsequent deadlines for the implementation of these changes lead to greater volatility of subscription revenues than previously and expose public media to an increased risk of loss of and so fragile financial stability. Nothing happens in a vacuum, and the management of public wealth is not the same as creating a political publicist. These are two different areas of human activity, and confusing them in practice can have a pitiful effect. The National Radio and Television Council urges the legislator to re-examine documents and draw appropriate conclusions from them. The Act of 6 August 2010 also laid down new rules for the election of members of supervisory boards and public media boards, introducing the principle of open, open competitions. In the case of supervisory boards, applications had to be submitted by the college bodies of academic institutions. The organisation of the first competition was consulted with representatives of non-governmental associations and organisations, and in 2011 the first process of setting up supervisory boards under the new rules was carried out. In 2014, after the expiry of the three-year term of office, the national board announced a second competition for supervisory boards. They started operations in the middle of 2014 after a general meeting in each company. In view of what happened later, it is worth noting a few details of these counsels. In the structure of education, the most numerous groups were those with economic and legal education. For 99 members of the supervisory boards, 50 people had a higher degree than the master: 9 professors, 14 habilitated doctors, 27 doctors. 65 members of the supervisory boards were scientific and teaching staff or persons with different functions in higher education authorities, including rector positions. Previous media experience showed more than 2/3 of people, which is exactly 68. In 2015, for the second time, the Supervisory Boards selected the Management Boards. According to the recommendation of the national board, supervisory boards of all regional companies of Polish Radio appointed single-member boards. The supervisory boards of the Polish Television and Polish Radio submitted proposals for the establishment of 3-person boards. After an in-depth analysis of the competition proceedings, the National Council adopted a resolution on the appointment of only the President of the Board of Polish Television, and only in the Polish Radio a two-person board was appointed. The National Council, in running the competitions, considered that it was not in line with democratic standards for active politicians to serve as public media authorities, especially those whose mandate comes from choice. The competent authority in which representatives of political groups are legally possible and expected to participate shall be the Programme Boards. It should therefore be stressed that there were no conflict-of-interest persons in the supervisory boards set up in the second competition, e.g. Councillors representing the parties. The current parliamentary majority, a media law novel that has been in force since 8 January this year, has removed the mechanisms characteristic of public media in Europe and introduced a model of party-state media, depending on the parliamentary majority forming the government. This model has bridged the distance needed by political power - public media - to preserve freedom of expression, information and creative independence and to separate public media from the world by a system of buffers, which the Constitutional Tribunal has justified in its ruling. These changes have led to the cancellation of all the boards and supervisory boards selected in the competitions, and in the public media authorities appointed by the Minister of Treasury there are many activists of the ruling party Law and Justice. Some of them also have elected political functions in local governments. About 100 people passed away from the Polish Television on the wave of these changes, in a large part journalists, from the Polish Radio - more than 30. As far as regional broadcasting is concerned, the National Council does not have precise information, but it is clear that 16 presidents were released on 17 appointed by the National Board and 54 members of the Supervisory Boards on 68 appointed. The scale of exchange of authorities and journalists has no precedent in the history of public media in Poland. It caused among others. the strong bias of the Polish Television programme, as demonstrated among others. an analysis of the major broadcasters' information programmes commissioned by the National Radio and Television Council this year. On the other hand, the decline in the level of implementation and incorrect decisions regarding new positions caused the outflow of viewers in other bands. An example of this is the attempt to restore such programs from years ago as the Probe or the Teleranek. Finally, it should be noted that the recent amendment of the law by Members of Law and Justice, which is currently being examined in the Sejm, gives hope that the achievements of the last quarter of the century of public media It's not gonna be ruined. The institution itself of the National Media Council with powers of election of the authorities of media companies takes these powers away from the Minister of Treasury. On the other hand, the fundamental drawback of this solution is still to leave the composition of the Council to politicians alone, and mostly to the politicians of the governing party. Media experts describe public media differently. However, the three inalienable tasks of these media continue to be mentioned. Public media are to be a forum for unfettered public debate, while at the same time looking critically at the hands of the current authority and working for the cohesion of society and its institutions. It is difficult, sometimes competitive tasks for each other, but clearly determines the field and way of working the media paid for social money. The institution that will only be run by the politicians of the ruling party cannot fulfil these tasks. But there's still time to change that. Co-regulation and self-regulation are valued in the audiovisual regulators environment. They are also referred to by the European Commission by proposing, in the revision of the Audiovisual Directive, the protection of minors from content which may jeopardise their development by means of these mechanisms. The Act on Radiophony and Television from 2013 authorised the National Council to initiate and support self-regulation. On this basis, important self-regulatory acts were drawn up - the 2013 broadcasting agreement on the amenities in the television programme for visually and hearing impaired persons, a code of good practice laying down detailed rules for the protection of minors in VOD services, an agreement of 29 October 2014 laying down rules for the self-regulation of food advertising to children under 12 years of age. From 1 January 2015, programmes for children under 12 years of age shall not be accompanied by advertising of foodstuffs and beverages which do not meet the standards set out in the dietary criteria. The audit has shown that they are fully respected by the entities which have undertaken to do so. It should be added that the Polish system of self-regulation of food advertising for children was recognised in October last year as a performance of 2015 by the European Association of Advertising Standards bringing together 37 self-regulatory bodies and 16 industry organisations of advertisers, advertising agencies and media. It is advanced to prepare another agreement with broadcasters, this time on broadcasting with the same volume of audio on television programs, precisely with volume at minus 23 LUFS. The completion of the digitalisation of television and the digitalisation of radiophony was another important task in the past year, as well as throughout the passing term of the National Radio and Television Council. Since summer 2013, terrestrial television has switched to a digital broadcasting system, which has significantly increased the number of programmes available to all audiences. The National Council has designed a comprehensive and balanced programme assessment on multiplexes. During the reporting year, the work of the National Council was related to a competition run by the President of UKE for the development of the 8th multiplex, which will soon enrich the publicly available programme offer. The National Council has allocated three seats to the public broadcaster on this multiplex. Unfortunately, no information has yet been obtained from the current board of directors on how these sites are to be used. The National Council also defined the programme conditions for the market and, after the competition, granted concessions to the following entities. The concession for the dissemination of the program, in which at least 30% of the weekly broadcasting time will take place feature films, series, entertainment programmes, was awarded to Spectrum for a program which, after changing its original name to its current name, is called New TV. The second was the concession for the dissemination of the program presenting current events from various parts of Poland, including programmes devoted to self-government and the functioning of local communities. This concession was granted by the National Council at the end of 2015 to Cable Television Network & Partners for the Zoom TV programme. I will explain immediately that despite this English-sounding name it is an agreement of Polish cable operators. Green Content has been awarded a concession to disseminate a universal program promoting active human development, which includes programmes devoted to healthy lifestyles, professional and social development of human beings for a program that is currently called Metro TV. Finally, the concession to distribute a universal programme devoted to the development of society, economy, culture, but above all to promote media education and new media, the National Council granted WP1 to WP1. In the field of broadcasting, the work of the National Council was completed as announced last year in preparation of the so-called. Green paper with recommendations for government strategy for digitalisation of radio in Poland. Public broadcasting remains the leader of digital broadcasting, which sees the possibility of strengthening market power and development in this process. I would like to stress that all these most important works and many more discussed in the report were carried out in much more detail at the National Radio and Television Council, in its office, on the basis of the objectives set out in the strategy papers, most recently in the regulatory strategy of the National Council for 2014/2016, and on the objectives adopted for implementation in the task budget of the National Council approved by the Sejm and the Senate of the Republic. A very clear sign of quality of work is the results of the next NIK audit, after which we received no comments on the way the National Council managed public funds. Another confirmation of the quality of the work of the national council and its offices are positive judgments of different judicial instances, which are a form of control of decisions taken by the national council. Approaching the end, I would like to publicly acknowledge to the entire team the office of the national council, people who have many unique competences, serve professionally and effectively the viewers and listeners and the electronic media market in Poland. On behalf of the entire national council, thank you very much for 6 years of cooperation with the directors, experts and all the staff of the national council office. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! As I said, this report ends the term of the national council working for six years under my leadership. We thank you for all the substantive comments addressed to us during the various debates in the Sejm during this six-year term. Critics touched us in the Sejm mainly from political forces recognizing that they do not have their representatives in the Council, and after all, the personal composition of every council, including ours, was shaped not by ourselves, but by sovereignly and legally by the previous supreme authorities of our country. Today, as a result of democratic elections, it is the contemporary opposition, Law and Justice, it has power, also power to choose the next composition of the National Radio and Television Council. It requires people with media experience who know the law and move without barriers and complexes in the European institutions. Today, the Sejm has the opportunity to prove that criticism of the composition of the national council was not just purely political and economical, and can shape this composition so that it is even more competent and even more representative. The actions taken by the majority of the media in the last six months, especially those relating to public media, are critically assessed by many national, European and global environments. One of the evidence is the decline in the media freedom index from 18th place in 2015 to 47th position in 2016, mainly due to... [[Voice from the Chamber: for 2015]] ...changes in media law. This may be considered another proof of hypocrisy and hypocrisy, but we do not feel satisfaction for it, and we would like it to change as soon as possible. We therefore wish, at the end of our successors in the National Council, that their activities serve well freedom of speech and media in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u199	Thank you, Mr President. Before I ask President Elizabeth Raven to speak, I will announce a three-minute technical recess. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 14 min. 51 hrs. 14 min 54]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 6 of the agenda. I would like to ask Mrs Elżbieta Kruk to provide the reasons for the draft resolution. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u200	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Culture and Media, I present to the Commission a draft resolution on the report of the National Radio and Television Council on its activities in 2015. At its meeting on 14 June 2016, the Commission examined the report of the National Council addressed to it by the Marshal of the Sejm, together with information on the main problems of radio and television in 2015, print No 392. The debate, both in the speech of the President of the National Council and in the statements of Members, was addressed not only in 2015, but throughout the entire term of office of the Council in connection with its expiry in August of this year. I would like to remind you that the National Council was set up in August 2010. It included representatives of the Civic Platform, SLD and PSL, and President Jan Dworak was once a member of the Civic Platform - speaking of the apoliticality of the National Radio and Television Council in today's composition. Already at the beginning of her term of office, there were curiosities. In 2011, by votes, among others. the majority of the Seym, i.e. PO and PSL clubs, the Sejm and the Senate rejected the report of the National Council. This happened after several months of political trade between coalitioners on the distribution of media loot. It was only then that the national board was so frightened that the supervisory boards of public media companies were selected. We then had a showcase on the transparency and transparency of competitions for public media boards, which today are so proud of the Civic Platform and Mr President. Well, before the public television supervisory board started interviews with 9 candidates, the media had already announced the composition of the three-person TVP board, and they were right. Juliusz Braun, former Member of the Freedom Union, became President from office at the Ministry of Culture and was a member of the Management Board, among others. Marian Zalewski, straight from the post of Deputy Minister of Agriculture for PSL. We even read in the media that TVP was experiencing a political upheaval of one of the resorts along with their wives. It was so apolitical. In 2011, the Committee on Culture and Media adopted a resolution constituting inter alia, quote: In TVP SA there was an unprecedented restriction of freedom of speech and freedom of public debate. A multimillion-dollar auditorium with a conservative view was deprived of its programme offer and the public had access to a full spectrum of views. This is contrary to the constitutional principles of equality before the law and free access to information, and the committee therefore calls on the national council to comply with the Constitution and the laws of obligations. In the context of passiveness or indulgence in the activities of previous public media authorities Today's activity of the national council in reviewing the new authorities is interesting. A particular example is the report mentioned by the President, which compares the information services of the three largest televisions: TVP news, TVN facts and Polsat events, notabene ordered by a professor who, two weeks after the change in the authorities of TVP, called it court television, lysusovska. The effect was easy to predict - the one mentioned by the President. The report accuses the news of TVP e.g. reporting an interview with Tomasz Araba for one of the newspapers. The report states that this interview was not an important event, and Arabic is not a very famous person. The chairman of the National Council added that the other TVs did not talk about it. This is the criterion for assessing public media. Let us add that the issue concerns the Smolensk tragedy trial. On the other hand, the chairman defends the decisions of the previous TVP authorities not to transmit despite the presence of the interrogation cameras of President Bronisław Komorowski. It will uphold the freedom of expression, the right to information and the public interest in radio and television as indicated by Article. 213 of the Constitution, understands the national council as ensuring that not all Poles are informed. As you can easily guess, it is only necessary to block information from society that is inconvenient for just right authority, thanks to God no longer existed. Another example of unequal treatment is the assessment, the recognition of the alleged scale of redundancies in public media today as presumably unprecedented, and the transfer of more than 400 TVP employees to the external Leasing Team by the previous authorities - an operation which the Supreme Audit Chamber has assessed negatively and considered as a dangerous precedent - is acceptable. It should be recalled that the Council did not withdraw from the use of available surveillance measures on questionable matters, as in the case of the TV Trwam information programme. The chairman of the board imposed a penalty on the Lux Veritatis Foundation for alleged promotion of illegal activities in the broadcast of the March of Independence of 11 November 2013 issued on TV Trwam, although in the explanatory memorandum to the decision there was only an impression, because only opinions were expressed in relation to the reluctance of the inhabitants of Warsaw to the installed on the site. A rainbow savior. On the other hand, TVP's harmful activities involved in manipulating public opinion were treated with indulgence in relations with the independence march of 11 November. There were many examples of TVP's activities in conflict with the public service mission, to which the National Council did not respond. Here are some of them. TVP did not hesitate to promote the historical policy of Germany by issuing a controversial TV series Our mothers, our fathers, slandering soldiers of the Home Army, and did not find room for creating Polish historical policy. She co-financed anti-Polish films alongside the State Institute of Film Art, such as "Pokłos" or "Citizen," investing in the negative image of Poland abroad. To make it funnier or maybe scarier, Pogłosie co-financed together with the Russian government's Cinema Foundation. Are public media really in order to pursue foreign interests for the money of Poles? The National Radio and Television Council did not respond to this. The peak of the misappropriation of his mission was that TVP favored one candidate during the presidential election. TVP has practically turned into the electoral staff of Bronisław Komorowski... [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: And he won the other one.]] ...of whom, for example, in March ub. The audience could watch for almost 6.5 hours and Andrzej Duda for only 22 minutes. The violation of all journalistic standards was the Tomasz Lisa program broadcasted on TVP2 in which the conductor was manipulated: to hit Andrzej Duda, he quoted his daughter's fake account. At the same time, TVP suspended the program closer to the editor of Pospieszalski, using preventive censorship. Not for the first time, because I will remind you of the scandal associated with the TVP's suspension of the broadcast of this program due to the invitation to participate in the discussion of the editor-in-chief of the weekly in the Network of Jack Karnowski, when the TVP supervisors themselves openly admitted that they would control the selection of guests and topics of the programmes. The case of arrest by the police of journalists who reported on the course of the protest of the State Election Commission after the local elections - the action was carried out at the request of the Polish President Bronisław Komorowski as a fully intended repression - as well as the decision not to allow Trwam and TV operators to enter the room where the hearing was held by the court of President Komorowski in the case of the WSI. The National Radio and Television Council in today's composition underestimated these events. Did she therefore carry out her duties under the Constitution and the Act and thus serve Poles? Not much has been said at the committee meeting about the work of the National Council so that this could have an impact on the positive evaluation of the report. The committee therefore presents a draft resolution of the Polish Sejm on the report of the National Board of Radiophony and Television, as follows: "The Sejm of the Republic of Poland rejects the report of the National Board of Radiophony and Television from its activities in 2015. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u201	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in its discussion on this item it would hear ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and a five-minute statement on behalf of the circle. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Anna Elizabeth Sobeck, Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u202	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present an opinion on the 2015 National Radio and Television Council report submitted on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. Polish law obliges Parliament to evaluate the National Radio and Television Council annually. However, it is impossible in a 10-minute speech to address all aspects that have taken place in the past year. Nevertheless, the report of the National Council is the moment when we can sum up and evaluate the whole annual work of this body. Law and Justice appreciated the analytical preparation of the report, for gathering information and a comprehensive and comprehensive presentation of what was happening in the media. Unfortunately, this concludes with a positive assessment of the work of the National Council. 2015 was the time when the national council carried out its particular interests, regardless of public interest or journalistic objectivity. There are doubts about the concession policy. I would like to remind you that during the digitalisation process, one of the contenders has received several concessions to play a leading role in the television market. Of course, it's about the left-wing group of ZPRs. Similar behaviors are observed on the radio, where the greatest radio tycoons, like Agora and RMF, are strengthened at the expense of the outgoing independent radio stations. There is also great concern about the National Council's policy of penalties. You can clearly see which media were privileged by the national council. The confirmation of these words is an example of a penalty of tens of thousands of zlotys for Catholic broadcasters with very mild treatment of Ringier Axel Springer, who was punished with a ridiculous amount of 1000 PLN for statutory failure. The action of the National Council around personnel policy is another issue that is very hard to think about, because although the National Council strongly claims that it has no impact on personal changes, it is well known that this is not true. In short, the National Radio and Television Council has an impact on the decisions of who will be employed in the media, on the content of the program and on who will be the author, the editor of the program. The most important thing for the national council is to take care of this body's freedom of expression, integrity and pluralism of the media in our country. A clear example of the violation of these values by the national council was the outcome of the recent presidential and parliamentary elections when voters voted against public television propaganda. The public was diametrically different from the main public media, which still served propaganda content to the audience. I would like to emphasise once again that the assessment of the national council on respect for freedom of speech, integrity and pluralism of the media is radically different from reality. And that misjudged assessment doesn't have our consent. It was the results of the elections that showed how much public television and national council were politicized. At that time, it was clear that public television had become Presidential television. During the election campaign, before the elections for the office of President of the Republic of Poland, the Polish Television presented candidates in a biased manner, supporting the President-in-Office. This is demonstrated by the calculation of antenna time for each election committee. In particular, in March 2015, Bronisław Komorowski's statements as a candidate took 3 hours and 15 minutes on TVP Info, and in addition the same candidate's statements as president 3 hours and 13 minutes, a total of 6 hours and 28 minutes. Meanwhile, the main opponent Andrzej Duda, who, as it turned out, won the first round of elections, had the opportunity to present his views this month only for 22 minutes. Difficulty antenna time remained to the end of the campaign before the first election round. According to the following data by April 27, the total time of speech of Bronisław Komorowski was over 11 hours, with just 1 hour and 14 minutes for Andrzej Duda. In addition, in the main editions of information programmes, both the time and the presentation of individual candidates also demonstrated the support of public television for Bronisław Komorowski. Let me just remind you that this way of informing about candidates is contrary to the principle enshrined in the Article. Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The 2nd Act on Radio and Television, which commands public television to show a fair representation of the whole variety of events and phenomena in the country, and also commands the free development of citizens' views. While remaining during the presidential campaign, it is worth recalling the scandalous behaviour of red. Beaty Tadli May 4th. in the TVP Info programme tonight. The guest of the program was the candidate of Law and Justice for the President of the Republic of Poland, Dr. Andrzej Duda. The programme was an example of an unprecedented attack by a journalist on opposition party politics. During the duration of the broadcast ed. Beata Tadla carried on a number of reprehensible behaviors, was aggressive, biased and arrogant, and led the discussion in a way that made it difficult for the candidate to present his vision of the presidency. No one has any doubt that the program was a party to a political dispute, and the conversation turned into an attack on a guest invited to the studio. Another journalist who disdained himself in a biased broadcast of television was red. Jarosław Kulczycki. Let me remind you that February 7th. In the TVP Info programme, Bronisław Komorowski and Andrzej Duda made an outrageous statement from day to day on electoral conventions. During the program, the editor stated that the journalist of the weekly in the Network, Łukasz Warzecha, is a propagandaist paid by the staff of the candidate for Law and Justice. The bias he presented during the program red. Kulczycki, taunted the basic principles of journalism and expressed the strong politicization of public television. With great indignation I also accepted the information - also Law and Justice - about the photo taken from the TVP Info antenna of the ed program. John Hurrying up closer. According to the host of the programme, the television authorities did not provide any specific information to justify this action. According to unofficial information, this was related to the survey presented during the program, indicating Bronisław Komorowski's relationship with the WSI. The big misunderstanding was the fact that the public television authorities took the red program off the air. Hurry up, instead of suspending the co-operation with red. A fox who repeatedly used a planned manipulation and a disgusting lie, as happened e.g. if false information is given about the President's daughter Andrzej Duda. The electoral campaign period was a time when many worrying events took place on public television, but I would also like to draw attention to other important facts that took place last year. And so, on 30 August in Warsaw under the slogan "A Stop of Depravity in Education" there was a few thousandths manifestation against changes in sexual education. Parents and educators and more than 26 family organizations opposed the MEN's introduction of elements that corrupted their children into schools. Unfortunately, despite the huge turnout and the wide scale of the problem in the main edition of the news, there was no mention of the manifestation taking place on that day. It is surprising that such an important social initiative has not found the slightest reflection in public television information. This was an extremely important event that showed citizens' opposition to MEN's harmful activities. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We have seen the omission of this information as encouraging the ruling party at that time, especially since the same site has once again developed propaganda topics criticizing President-in-Office Andrzej Duda. And one more thing. It is also worth mentioning one of the most important examples of breaking democracy...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u203	Member, time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u204	Two sentences, Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u205	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u206	...at the hearing of President Bronisław Komorowski. TV crews then appeared in the Presidential Palace, where the court questioned President Bronisław Komorowski. The president gave testimony in the trial of Wojciech Sumlinski and former WSI officer colonel. Aleksandra L., accused of paying protection in the verification of the Military Information Services. [[Voice from the room: Time.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u207	Member, time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u208	So I think, ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u209	Therefore, time has passed, Madame, I apologise.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u210	...that it's time to change, of course, a good change, also at the National Radio and Television Council.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u211	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u212	Therefore, the Law and Justice call for the 2015 report to be rejected. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u213	Thank you, Member. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Ursula Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u214	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am aware of the fact that this is the last report of this National Council of Radio and Television, because the term of office of six years is also ending. It is a good, transparent, compact, substantive, creative report. Both the agreement and the content perfectly reflect the priorities and philosophy of the national council. Such a model of action, as an independent, competent, consistent institution, is to be expected from the constitutional body of the State. The document is built logically, it is solid, it is comprehensive, it shows the strategy, the creation of the law, control of broadcasters, participation in the work of international institutions, shows the fulfilment of the constitutional objectives assigned to the national council, accessibility, diversity, independence of the media, equal competition of broadcasters, protection of children and young people, proper spending of public money. The meeting of the cultural committee, with many years of tradition in this matter, has in fact turned into an opportunity to accuse the national council of all crimes against certain broadcasters. There was also an issue of supposedly scandalous levels, especially public television, during the reporting period. Turns out the National Radio and Television Council is a typical boy to beat for the PiS. I suppose the council isn't only guilty of the 19th-century Cockle epidemic in Africa, although I don't know for sure about that. The so-called authorities National media by the mouth of Members of the PIS will gladly show that this is a national council, not them, responsible for the drainage of public viewers of the stations in recent months. Probably the council is also responsible for a huge, 25% decrease in advertising rates in the Polish Television. Because the escape of viewers and advertisers is governed by the Law and Justice, its media policy, a policy that can be called a return to the regime's media serving the leader and the party, not citizens. That's the kind of TV I'm ashamed to watch. There's not listening to a radio like that in a good tone. This is, unfortunately, the success of national media, not the national council. It can only be commended that it warned against such actions, although in vain. The meeting of the Committee on Culture has traditionally shown that Members are the chief reviewers of public media. Analyzing the division of antenna time, the editors' statements, personal. Anyway, just a moment ago, we also had a sample of the exact same thing. And right here. I will allow myself to complete the committee's report, because I do not understand this complaining to Members for the time when candidates for public television are present, as there was also a clear suggestion during the committee's meeting that this presence apparently harmed other candidates. Of course, everyone to public media has their requirements, expectations and tastes. I would like to remind you with power that the National Radio and Television Council is a regulator for all broadcasters, regardless of how it tries to take care of public media. The media market is changing and we need to be able to adapt to these changes. President Dworak spoke today about global access to sources, speed of information, ease of access to content and a new type of journalism, which is being implemented, among others. on social networking websites, and this is linked to the need to select data, adapt form to content. Modernity, new forms also require not only journalists, but also the national board of flexibility in the approach to how to carry out its mission and how to achieve its objectives. By carefully analysing the reports, we come to the conclusion that the activity is profiling the national council as a very prudent, balanced media market regulator. I am talking about initiatives in international fora, about trying to initiate some legislative solutions. I would like to remind you that the National Council of Initiatives itself does not exist in this area, but during its term of office it has participated in consultations, work, advice, and help to create laws. So, as I say, I see many positives in the report, which the committee's meeting failed to see, and in the minority there were those who were trying to say it out loud and thanked for the way the national council carried out its mission for six years of its term of office. These positives are what lies within the competence of the national council, these are its statutory tasks - the conduct of concession proceedings, the protection of minors against inappropriate content, market control, distribution of public funds and supervision of their proper use by broadcasters, participation in the cooperation of international regulators in the European Commission's advisory body. This is also the development of a code of good practice, e.g. in the case of on-demand services, also the protection of minors. This is also to bring about an agreement between broadcasters on the prohibition of advertising, e.g. unhealthy food for children under the age of 12. In a word, these are very important and worth highlighting the achievements of the Polish regulator, which are part of what is also happening in Europe, because in Europe these achievements have also been noticed and awarded and recommended for use. So glory to the national council for this. I would still like to mention something that the current rulers do not like very much, and I think that this is a very important issue, and even though words have already come out of this tribune today, but only from the mouth of President Dworak - no one else wanted to see it - I will try to emphasize it. The Act of 6 August 2010 laid down new rules for the election of members of public media boards and supervisory boards, provided for the introduction of open, open competitions with the participation of public institutions, in consultation with representatives of associations and NGOs. And they appeared as a result of what was also emphasized today, characters with excellent education, very competent. Even if someone had reservations about the competitions, it was worth improving this form, not eliminating it. Once again, from liquidation, from throwing into the basket, we will not have the build of pluralism. In competitions, the National Council applied the principle of non-connection of functions, now in the new law we have special provisions that open the gate for Members. There is an opportunity for the Minister of Treasury to appoint without competition. Well, who cares? You claim it's in the name of pluralism and freedom of speech. The name of irony, pluralism and freedom of speech on national television is Jacek Kurski. The public media are not separated from the world of politics, but what the rulers are proposing today... [[On the subject, Madame, on the subject.]] ...is an absolute exceedance of all bounds of decency. And returning to the national council itself, to its report, I would like to remind you that the quality of the work of the national council office was subject to scrutiny by the Supreme Audit Chamber, which, in other circumstances, the governing state is very willing to invoke, with positive results, without any comments. It has been assessed as good, as has the proper use of resources. There have also been numerous positive opinions from various judicial instances, and the website has been awarded as one particularly accessible to people with disabilities. So there's a lot of positive things here. The state of government is very afraid to talk about these positives, because you describe the world only from your own perspective. Well, we know the outcome of the vote. It's okay. The horse as it is, everyone can see and everyone can count. I, on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, request that this report be adopted. If you want to fix the public media, don't look at the national council, because today you are responsible for the public media. And one more reference to today's speech by the head of the National Council. You referred to the world index of freedom of the press. I would like to remind you that in 2006. Poland was in this index on 58th place, in 2015 - on 18. I will not quote what's next, but the same compilation of 2006 and 2015 is also a review of the work of the National Radio and Television Council. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I propose that the report submitted by the National Radio and Television Council be adopted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u215	Thank you, Member. And please take the floor of Mrs Elżbieta Borowska, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u216	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is very difficult to refer to the 2015 report of the National Radio and Television Council when we enter the eternal Polish-Polish war between Law and Justice and the Civic Platform, but as regards 2015 and the work of the National Radio and Television Council, we as the Kukiz club15 see a great need for changes in public media. This is not only a matter of the last six months, but it is also a matter of what the media community or civil society has been calling for for for many, many years. With regard to the National Radio and Television Council, however, we have some reservations about the activities of this authority. There are two options: either this body does not fulfil its role, or it has a limited impact on public media, since there have been processes of degradation of these media. Here are a few such reservations. As far as election campaigns are concerned, I will no longer talk about antenna time for individual committees and representatives, because this has already sounded, but I will raise two points. The first is a selection of experts. Sometimes it seemed that one could only agree or a little disagree with the ruling party - but this was typical of the public media over the past years - there were very few opposition experts against the ruling option. That was significant. The second point is the media breach. As a Kukiz club15, we have seen many times that when we organized press conferences, when we invited public media and talked about them. 1.5 hours about a specific part of our strategy for Poland, later in the evening news came one sentence: Kukiz has no program. It was not a reliable transmission of what was really happening, including with regard to the election campaign. Another charge is the lack of attention to the public service mission. Unfortunately, in the following years we are dealing with - and here we hope that with the participation of different environments we will work out some rules on how a public mission can be carried out - with a certain vulgarization of the media, a certain intrusiveness of advertising, especially for children, for the elderly. We have a lot of primitive shows, talk shows, and less and less ambitious programs that would somehow try to perform an educational function. Next note - the media market in recent years, however, has been dominated by German companies. This naturally leads to a certain promotion of certain attitudes, raises a number of doubts, especially if we consider how the German media protect their market. I think that's an important point. It can also be added that there is a problem with citizens' access to VOD, to archives. This should be emphasised in particular, especially as we are very focused on publicism here, on policy issues. And one last point - the participation of women in public life. Indeed, those women who actually campaigned were more or less shown in the media, also from the point of view of this part of the experts. And it's especially important that these women are represented... that women represent different environments, so let me put it this way. I often feel that only the left-liberal worldview dominates, while very few women with a conservative worldview are shown, which here could promote some other values. As far as the document itself is concerned, it is indeed a well drawn up document, there is a great deal of information, statistics. There are interesting opinions about the future of the media, about which way we should aim for the public media, how to expand pluralism here, how to properly compose a public mission and how exactly these publishing programs, the transmission of information, because this is also the task of the National Radio and Television Council, should look. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u217	Thank you, Member. And please take the floor of Mr Grzegorz Furga.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u218	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, the Sejm will examine, examine, the 2015 National Radio and Television Council report. There are 10 people in the room - it's hard to talk to an empty room. This time the debate on the report will be deeply political, even fundamental. I regret that the debate relates solely to staff issues and not to programme issues - I believe the committee has not read the content of the entire report, but has merely taken up the subject of personal exclusion of members with pedigrees in the Platform and PSL. Unfortunately, TVP and public media are only a party to a political dispute, not a key to civil society shaping awareness. You have focused on the criticism of the board through a few programmed or publicist elements, without, however, paying attention to everyday life, that is to say, the broad daily work of the advice described in the report. A long time ago, you have the majority and you will do whatever you want. You're not objective. It's a pity you don't have a Mrs. Raven, because at her address, I was just about to say that. I get the feeling you're not watching tonight's TV and what's actually going on out there. TVP is a party to a political dispute, and the face is the phenomenal editor Claudiusz Pobozin. We believe that both the House of Parliament and the President, controlled by the Law and Justice, will reject this report and that the result will be the withdrawal of the Council and the appointment of its new composition. Before the election, PiS talked about TVP being used to fight the opposition. And today, ladies and gentlemen, is it different? Last March, President Komorowski hosted the main message of TVP 3 hours, Member, and President Duda in March this year - 8 hours. Those are the facts. At the same time, the Sejm is considering a law establishing a new body - the National Media Council. The aim is to take control of institutions responsible for media governance in Poland. It will therefore be a debate about public media and public media regulation. The report shows that the Council acted smoothly. Nothing disturbing happened except one case. In 2015, the board led by Jan Dworak rebelled and did not approve the result of the competition for the members of the TVP Management Board conducted by the supervisory board of this institution and won by political nominees. The Council refused their approval, and from among the indicated it approved only the good President - Janusz Daszczyński. This fact has had a positive impact on the assessment of the entire board report. It's a proof of the independence of a council that doesn't agree to a violent political fair. It is a pity, Mr President, that she decided to do so after many years, because earlier we knew the results of the competition before they were decided. What does that say? It's been a long time since the council was made up of representatives of all parties. That's too bad. It's been a long time since representatives of different backgrounds were able to talk to each other. Since the Polish rule of right-wing and centre-right formations, the principle of eliminating and depreciating political opponents in accordance with the principle applies: the advice is to be only ours. At the same time, it is a step towards preserving the status quo to seek the removal of the national board of competence to appoint the supervisory authorities of public media and to transfer them not to the Constitutional Council of National Media. I don't think anyone believes that the government will give its independence to the National Media Council, especially when the PiS Members sit in it. The public media were and will continue to be the spoils of the political, seymous majority. It doesn't matter whether it's the PO or the Law and Justice. Maybe with the one difference that the PiS does all this brutally and with an open pinhole. Sometimes it's better to be a genuine brute than a backstage player. However, we still do not know what the real cost of maintaining the national media will be, because at committee meetings and subcommittees, you were unable to calculate how much this television is. It really does. The amount of PLN 2 billion seems to be thrown blind with the hope that this will be enough. How do you calculate that it's going to be 2 billion instead of 3 or 5? This is because now the creators of a project about national media, together with TVP's headship, care about what they don't show instead of what is worth watching. This was the case with the method of counting participants of the CODE march. You'll admit it was embarrassing. Besides, the best assessment of the level of reliability, I will remind you for the second time today, was a very warm welcome of the president of television at the Opole festival. The current approach presented by the national council with Jan Dworak and presented by Krzysztof Czabański is quite similar. According to them, there are undisputed institutions. These are two channels of national television, regional channels, four channels of public radio and PAP. I just don't know how both sides of the dispute calculated that the cost of their living would be 2 billion, because that's what they think it's going to cost to keep them alive. But do they know what these public media are supposed to be? The debate is only about how to effectively take over the radio and television, for whose money. There is no debate in all of this about what kind of media we want. As a modern, we want radical media reform, but until the political class matures to cooperate, we will not be able to create even the BBC substitutes. Public media must have a mission, promote national culture, promote social foundations, teach. Today, in the digital era, public media are facing an unequal fight against the Internet for access to the minds of the audience. We must not waste time building new structures for public media institutions. We have already proposed that members of the National Media Council should elect the rectors of state universities in the subcommittee for the examination of draft media law. This caused a kind of outrage and surprise that they were to be chosen by a body that was not made up of politicians. It's a step towards media detachment. It's necessary, because the political class is a bit off the table. The autonomy of universities enables extra-politicity. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, it seems that in this term of office we will not have any serious debate on the shape of the media, because power needs them as a propaganda tool, not as an instrument for promoting a social mission that is beneficial to citizens. Unfortunately, you are not objective in creating a media mission. This is reflected in what is presented and currently offered by the Polish Television. Sometimes I get the feeling that you're not watching it yourself, because you're still moving towards dredging up functional television, not missionary TV. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u219	Thank you. And please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u220	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. The National Radio and Television Council, according to my opinion, is one of the most professional bodies of our democratic state. The National Radio and Television Council, I believe, is extremely reliable and responsible in defending the democratic criteria of the state. This democratic state is based on a constitution that Law and Justice have been breaking for several months. The National Radio and Television Council upholds the freedom of expression, the right to information and the public interest in radio and television. That's what art sounds like. 213 of our constitution. This is one of those articles that refers to freedom of speech, but also to freedom of creation, freedom of debate and to the ability to talk responsibly and meaningfully, to have a dialogue with our audience - I am talking about the television audience - with our society at the moment. Dialogue, I think, is a fundamental element of establishing, creating some kind of social space. An element of dialogue is the ability to listen. Today we have lost it, and I think that Law and Justice also aim to do so. I cannot understand why public television is so lynched by you. I do not understand why public television in its previous power is so neglected by you. Well, I'd like to ask these young people -- they don't have a voice right now -- whether they liked any TV shows or whether they were watching public television. There must have been some meaningful program, ladies and gentlemen, on public television. It is worth appreciating the work of the predecessors. That is the continuity of the state. That's the continuity of work. The world did not start on 25 October 2015, although you certainly think so. Polish democracy is much more durable, richer and more interesting than the state's clear assessments of our reality. I would like to draw the attention of President Raven that it is not the Sejm that decides whether or not to accept or reject the report of the National Radio and Television Council. It's the PiS who's rejecting them. This must be made clear. I think it's you guys. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's what I'm asking you to do. And Mr. Dworak and his team congratulate you on your six-year job. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u221	Thank you, sir. And please take the floor of Mr Kazimierz Kotowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u222	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Today I have the honour and honour of expressing, conveying and evaluating the report presented by the National Radio and Television Council for 2015. My speakers spoke very widely about issues, aspects, all the events or moments they thought were good, but also those they thought were negative. These opinions were very extreme. I think it could be expected that in the debate on this point they would be radically different: from extremely unfavourable, from extremely critical to balanced to appropriate. I can risk saying that he hasn't been born to make it up to everyone yet. The National Council operated on the basis of a specific legal act, carried out its tasks on the basis of specific rules, legal standards, normative acts and customary standards. The report she has presented - and it is extensive - contains all the necessary and specified descriptions, contains many figures and analytical material - we cannot, or at least we have not seen them as a club, see inaccuracies or contradictions. We can have different views on a number of issues, especially since today's evaluation process takes place in parallel with the process of proceding the Act on the National Media Council, which is an organ, as we may presume, which will significantly reduce the competence of the National Radio and Television Council to date. We know that arithmetic, mathematics is a strict science, and we have seen in many debates, especially when voting that there is a certain majority and we can expect specific decisions. In the near future, we can have such a situation that the National Council of Radiophony and Television will be a constitutional body without power, and the new Council of Public Media will be a body without the constitution of a fundamental law, but with full power. Nevertheless, I would like to lean on the attempt to take a very short summary, to look at how public media have changed in recent years. What was done? My previous speakers mentioned that the introduction, the transition to a digital broadcasting system is a moment or fact that has significantly expanded the number of programmes available to all audiences. The next moment is to design on multiplexes a variety of software offerings and increase the range of media services in the area of the Internet. The Polish Radio, and especially regional radio stations, returned to such positions as auditoriums, documentary programs, radio novels. On the other hand, I would like to emphasise how regional units have changed their nature. Yeah, that's a fact. They have become, in a large part, an element and entity that has begun to play an important role, also as a cultural institution. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Rado! Viceroy, culture and what we have brought out of school and from homes, commands that the one who finishes his work, because the term of office ends, to thank, to say the word: thank you. Today, on behalf of our club, on your hands, I thank you for this 6-year period of work, for all that has been done good, positive for our country, both in the national and international arena. I think it is a report and these facts that in 2006 Poland was ranked 52nd in the international ranking, in 2010 - 32nd, in 2015 - at 18th, also testify that you were trying to do your best to carry out your mission. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Polish People's Party Club, although we can talk about many issues where time requires us to propose changes in the functioning of the funding programme, etc., will vote in favour of the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u223	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Margaret Zwierzan.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u224	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The report of the National Radio and Television Council is an impressive document, if we mean the level of hypocrisy and unjustified complacency. The Council, by its 2010 amendment, participated in the establishment of public media boards and supervisory boards, simply having an impact on what is happening in public media. She shared and ruled, and with what effect, we saw for ourselves. The Council didn't see or, actually, didn't want to see that the so-called. Public media became the propaganda tube of the rulers, from which peons flowed adoration of government action and total condemnation of the opposition. Moreover, almost all the information was presented from the perspective of the government, and if the opposition was allowed to speak, it was always presented as dissatisfied and unreasonably clinging to power. In accordance with the draft law on the National Media Council submitted in the Seym by Members of Law and Justice, the National Radio and Television Council is to lose the power to appoint public media programme councils for the benefit of the National Media Council. The right to choose supervisory boards and to appoint public radio and television boards The National Radio and Television Council lost its powers as early as January this year, when, under a small media law, the Minister of Treasury took over these competences. It is not time to bid on the calculation of the negligence and errors of the National Radio and Television Council, I think everything has been said during the committee's deliberations, but it is important to decide on the separation of the regulation of the electronic media market from the management and supervision of public media. In the 2015 elections, the Council adopted Decision The National Radio and Television Council has shown stubbornness and inability to properly discharge its constitutional responsibility, so it is desirable to set up a National Media Council, which will be a specific supervisory board for public media, and the National Radio and Television Council will remain only and exclusively a regulator of the electronic media market. The Free and Solidarni Circle will vote against the 2015 National Radio and Television Council report. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u225	Thank you, Member. I would like to inform you that five parliamentarians have signed up for the question. If there are no more volunteers, I'm closing the list. I'm gonna give you one minute to ask a question. I am the first to ask the floor of Mr Grzegorz Furga. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u226	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I have a question for the members of the National Radio and Television Council on such a rather unusual matter, but while you're still here, I would ask you to check it out and take care of it because I don't really believe in the good intentions of the TV president. I have a specific question: Will you take care of the fate of the employees employed by Leasing Team? Let me remind you that all employees' contracts were terminated at the end of June. Professionals employed there are journalists and cameramen, i.e. such a salt of television, the most important people without whom this institution can be difficult. These people, as far as I know, are deeply concerned about their fate. Can you get information from the president of the TV, whether these employees can count on employment and in what form? Because as far as I know, and that's the kind of information I got right now, they got offers, but they got offers that couldn't be rejected, which means everyone has to start a company, otherwise, out. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u227	Thank you. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Anna Sobecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u228	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Chairman of the National Council, I have a question for you. Do you believe that the provisions of the Radio and Television Act have been implemented sufficiently in the media, in particular Chapter 4 of the article. Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2, which states in point 6, that the public media should respect the Christian value system so that, in point 7, they serve to strengthen the family and, in point 8, to combat social pathology and to ensure that pluralism and impartiality are pursued in the public media. That's my question. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u229	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Dariusz Piontkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u230	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There was already a lot about the politicization of the National Radio and Television Council. So I will ask a few questions about the report that the Council has presented. It's there, among other things. information on lower revenues from licence fees and licences and extensions. This is essentially the case for one sender. Total amount approx. PLN 6 million. In the opinion of the National Council, does not the decision to postpone this payment interfere in any way with the equal treatment of all broadcasters on the Polish market? And now there's an element involved. In the report that you have presented, the revenues from concession fees, licensing fees and extension since this year and in the years to come will increase very strongly. Is there therefore no danger that broadcasters will not be able to pay these charges? Element two. There was talk of technical trouble receiving at MUX 1 and MUX 2, about 70 such cases. How much of the country does this apply to? Is there any chance that this pickup will be improved there? [[♪ The bell ♪]] The next element is the copyright costs you have shown in the case of radio stations in principle. Only for this year, not in previous years. Have these copyrights not been paid in any way, or was it not? And the part that's a little connected with it -- mission costs. They have decreased significantly in the last 3 years compared to 2010 and 2011.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u231	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u232	What do you think that's coming from? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u233	Thank you. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Anna Paluch.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u234	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the following question. Why did the National Radio and Television Council allow actual violations of the rules that limit the time of advertising from a single sender? This was so that broadcasters who had several broadcasting stations in different locations received de facto several concessions for the same program and this allowed them to split the signal and break the rule on limiting advertising time. This continued and was very similar to the situation that took place in the second half of the 1990s. This is a dangerous situation. The second question I want to ask you is this. Why was there a practical liquidation of the Department of Technology? The National Council did not control the governance of the ether, because it did not actually have the instruments to examine the correctness of the Office's activities in the field of frequency management, [[♪ The bell ♪]] and there has been the unlawful issue of radio licences by the Office for Electronic Communications. And one last thing. Why did the council allow broadcasters to be controlled by external institutions without regard to possible links between...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u235	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u236	...controlling and controlling entities? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u237	Thank you, Member. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Marta Golbik.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u238	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Messengers! Mr. Speaker! It seems to me that the debate on the report of the National Radio and Television Council, which you criticize and want to reject, should, however, be attended by more people. There are four people in the room, so far there has been one Member. I have a question for the president. How do you imagine the cooperation of the constitutional body, which is the national council, with the newly appointed, on which we are currently proceeding, a non-constitutional body which falls within the competence of the national council, which is to be the National Media Council? Is this cooperation possible and what will it look like? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u239	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Jan Dworak, President of the National Radio and Television Council, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u240	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to answer those questions briefly. As far as Leasing Team is concerned, the case is undoubtedly very difficult and has been raised repeatedly. It was a decision. Juliusz Braun's board of directors, because of the very difficult economic situation of public television, the situation that this board inherited from previous boards. I will remind you that in one of Mr Braun's first years of operation, the public television deficit reached PLN 200 million. Finally, public television was on the positive side, unfortunately, thanks to the use of extremely drastic measures, i.e. assigning some of the employees to Leasing Team. So that here two values collided: on the one hand, responsibility for the functioning and economic existence of this institution, on the other hand, the need to take care of journalistic staff or even wider, creative TV workers. It was, I think, a tough decision. We in the National Council did not approve of this decision, but at the same time we understood the situation in which it was taken. This has nothing to do with it, although it is often compared with political redundancies. There was no trace of political decision, and no one in this discussion ever talked about details and details, because there is no such thing. However, the problem remains. In answer to the question of the Member, I would like to say that I remember many times the Members of the then opposition, now the ruling party, pleading for the fate of the displaced workers, having actually very strong arguments. Because in a normal situation, I will repeat, employees, creators should not be released from television, from public media in particular, because television may be too widely said. Well, I don't want to bounce the ball easily, but no doubt this situation in the Polish Television is the responsibility of the current board of directors, and if they see such... [[Yes, Mr President, what situation are we talking about?]] ...the possibilities of bringing these people back to work, if there are such economic and organizational opportunities, then I think that's the way it should be. That's my answer. But this is, as I say, about the personal responsibility of the public television board, the boards that were responsible for this process. As for Mrs Sobecka's question about the Christian system of values and impartiality, my opinion is quite clear. Public television has always been subject to political influence in its 20-year history, only that these political influences were either greater or smaller. In the period we are talking about, these political influences for which we are responsible were much smaller than before, e.g. in years. 2006-2010, and more than at present for six months. How does the Christian system of values contribute to this? The Christian system of values, I think, should be understood as placing great responsibility in the hands of an individual and his discernment of good and evil. This is really the essence of Christendom, indicating that in every man there is a line between good and evil. So if, in the case of the media, we can talk about a Christian system of values - of course, it does not come down to a single statement, but it is not the time for theological discussions here - it would certainly be necessary to start by giving freedom to all, in this case freedom of expression. I believe that this freedom, not without faults and probably not without faults, was in public media, so that the Christian value system was implemented. With regard to Mr Piontkowski's questions, lower revenues are actually linked to one sender, i.e. the deposit, with the distribution of the Television Puls payments into instalments. This was done at the request of the sender and this was in line with the general, I would say, with the line of the National Radio and Television Council, which, in fact, in the interest of the development of broadcasters is very often in favour of practically all broadcasters of these concession charges on instalments. Of course, I must traditionally stress, with full awareness, that the State Treasury is not suffering any damage here, because the distribution on instalments involves a carry-over fee, which is charged and increases the cost of these capital charges. Are the influences at stake? I don't think they're in danger. The Polish media market is a stable market, although, of course, very fragile. This idea, which has put forward a comprehensive idea of a national council to charge citizens a certain fee to the public media, is now being implemented by the parliamentary majority, and I hope that effectively, he has also allowed as a side effect, but consciously, that money that will not affect public media will remain on the market. The point is that the media, all media, and especially television, because, as I say, the media market is stable in Poland, but fragile, because technologies change and market systems change very much, and the flow of money changes very much, which flows to broadcasters... I therefore believe that in the foreseeable future, in the policies pursued and responsible, those responsible for the media and those in the national council are not at risk. As far as the coverage of MUX 1 and 2 is concerned, I must remind you here that the previous government has added the amount of PLN 80 million to the installation of so-called. A pile of fillers, that is, those little power transmitters that filled those range holes. If there are still any problems with coverage, I think that here too would be the expected help of the Minister of Digitization in addition to this range, but I think this already applies to certain individual places and individual towns. As far as copyright costs are concerned, I received information from the office - because the Member asked a similar question as at the meeting of the Committee on Culture - a written reply on copyright was made. I just wanted to say that there are no drastic differences here, it's just that these costs weren't previously included, they weren't broken, and recently they've been shown in the right position. Your Member asked about the liquidation of the Department of Technology. Unfortunately, we do feel the absence of such a department, but I wanted to say that you can't have everything you want. This reorganisation, which occurred a few years ago at the National Council's office, I think it has led to an improvement in the quality of the office's work. That's my opinion, I'm sure it's biased, but that's my opinion. The establishment of a key department, the Strategy Department, has changed the functioning of the entire office in my favour. Did she illegally grant permission... What is the connection between the unlawful issuance of permits by the Electronic Communications Office and the liquidation of the Department of Technology? I'd just have to know the details of the unlawful issue of permits. There are different situations, sometimes these are temporary permits issued for the duration of some event. It would be necessary to talk about concreteities, I do not know the case of a clear violation of these rules, and certainly this connection with the liquidation of the Department of Technology is very small. That's my opinion. Mrs Golbik, I imagine... I no longer have to, to be honest, imagine working with the National Media Council, because it will arise when the National Council no longer acts in this composition. So I guess the successors will imagine. But seriously, I think it depends on the spirit of cooperation. If this spirit of cooperation is, if, in fact, the competences are properly separated, there will be no conflict concerning these competences and there will be a good spirit of cooperation, then I imagine that it can exist. But, of course, it can also be a source of constant and ongoing conflicts. I'm sorry, because the Member said I didn't answer any of the questions, but... [[Of course, you didn't answer my first question.]] What was it like? [[Mr. President, the actual split-up of the signal, which is to spend on the same programme for the various broadcasting stations to concession holders...]] There's no such thing, I dismiss that charge, there's no such charge. The senders, of course, especially the radio... [[Mr. Chairman is being impregnated into reality.]] Please? Madam President, it is difficult for me to discuss this, but I would like to say that...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u241	That's why I'm asking you not to run a polemic. Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council Jan Dworak: I'm almost done, Marshal. We know different market phenomena, also leading to the fact that broadcasters want to gain a certain advantage, but this is certainly not done by means of a clear violation of the law. I can assure you of this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you, Mr President. Mr Dariusz Piontkowski submitted a corrigendum. [[I'll have a corrigendum, too.]] You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u242	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr President, when he answered the question about fees for radio and television concessions, he also spoke about public television, but it was primarily about these concession fees. I just want to explain what I meant once more. At the moment, you canceled or extended the fee for over PLN 6 million, and the charges on all concession holders amounted to around 1400 million... 1,400 thousand, I'm sorry. Next year such debts are over PLN 17 million, i.e. more than 10 times more. Therefore, if, in the current scale of the fees due, more than 1/3 of the payments are not affected, it seems reasonable to ask whether, in the following years, when this amount is PLN 17.18 million, these concession holders will be able to bear those fees which the State had foreseen in large instalments only in the following years. This was primarily the question, not the financial situation of public television. If you can, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'd ask for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u243	Thank you. And please do so by correcting Anna Sobeck. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u244	Thank you, Marshal. Mr President, at the end of my term of office I should be merciful, although it is difficult for me to respect the Christian system of values, it is a statutory provision, and the statutory provision is the right for you to exercise, not to discuss. Besides, you haven't said anything about whether or not you're satisfied with the record of strengthening the family's attitudes, of countering social pathology. It's also a statutory record. And you really don't have to explain what a Christian value system is, I think everyone in this room is perfectly aware of that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u245	Thank you, Member. And also in the procedure of correcting Mrs Anna Paluch. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u246	Thank you very much, Marshal. Well, obviously, Mr President answered the three questions I have asked in an incomplete way to one and not one word of reference to the third problem that I have raised, namely to commissioning the monitoring of broadcasters to external companies without paying attention to the possibility of links and inactivity in connection with the above-mentioned control process, and this is simply a reprehensible thing and so the public administration should not proceed. On the other hand, as regards the attempts to respond by the President, I can say, Mr President, that you are simply impregnated with stimuli from reality. The Lord does not allow you to know the actual image that your activities have produced. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u247	Thank you. I don't know if Mr President will be referring. No. In that case, please take the floor of the representative of the committee, Elizabeth Raven.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u248	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There was no question to the rapporteur, but, to tell you the truth, he provoked me to speak by President Jan Dworak, because there is no way to proceed with the manipulation he has done here. Namely, this concerns public television workers whose television got rid of by decision of the President of Julius Braun and they were transferred to LeasingTeamu. Firstly, Mr President, it is not that the financial situation forced television to make this decision, and that is why it is incomprehensible, because the financial gains from this undertaking for television were none. At the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media in that mandate, I refer you to Members because you would like to deny the reports of the committee meeting in that mandate - President Juliusz Braun himself said that public television could gain 5 million from this project. So it's worth laughing at. The Supreme Audit Chamber also assessed this issue. The Supreme Audit Office has negatively assessed this undertaking. She found that no financial gain could be predicted, nor did public television have any effect on it, and assessed it as a very dangerous activity. One last thing. Mr. Chairman, you can't do that. It is Mr Juliusz Braun, President of public television, who has made this decision, and it is only him who is responsible for this action, and you, Mr President, and the National Radio and Television Council, who are responsible for failing to defend the rights of these workers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u249	Excuse me, was the Member mentioned by name? But what are you going to straighten out if you weren't mentioned by your name? It's hard for us to... Mr. President, we have one-and-a-half. ... [[But that's a brief correction, because people shouldn't be misled.]] I understand that this is so polemic, but the Member was not mentioned by name. There's a second reading. If you want to speak at second reading, you can take it. The discussion is closed. I propose that the Sejm immediately proceed to the second reading of the draft resolution. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed to the second reading of the draft resolution. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak at the second reading of the draft resolution? No one's checking in. We will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: Information on the activities of the Ombudsman for 2015 together with observations on the state of compliance with the rights of the child (print No 388) together with the position of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Social Policy and the Family (print No 536). Please take the floor of Mr. Mark Michalak's Child Rights Officer for information. You're welcome, Mr. Spokesman.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u250	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In accordance with the rights of the Ombudsman, the Ombudsman upholds the rights of the child as defined in the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, the Convention on the Rights of the Child and other provisions of law, taking into account the respect of parental responsibility, rights and obligations. All actions undertaken by the Ombudsman in 2015, as in previous years, aimed at ensuring the full and harmonious development of the child, were carried out with respect for his dignity and subjectivity. For years, the Ombudsman has been conducting a permanent and systematic analysis of problems affecting the child and the family, as well as measures to protect the child from violence, cruelty, exploitation, demoralisation, negligence and other mistreatment. These actions shall be undertaken on their own initiative and on the basis of the signals received in individual cases. The Ombudsman also conducts activities to promote and disseminate the rights of the child and the methods of protecting them. In this respect, it shall cooperate with associations, civil movements, other voluntary associations and foundations working to protect the rights of the child. The amendments introduced in 2015 to the Act on the Ombudsman of the Rights of the Child ensured a more efficient functioning of the Ombudsman's institution, which consequently translates into even better protection of the child and his rights. It was also important to give the Ombudsman the right to refuse, in the circumstances laid down by law, the disclosure of the data of the person from whom the Ombudsman was informed of the breach of the rights or interests of the child and of the documentation collected during the investigation. In this way, the Ombudsman has become a body to which victims or witnesses of child harm may make themselves known without any concern about the disclosure of personal data. Compiled to the High House, in accordance with the Article. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Act on the Advocate for the Rights of the Child, Sejm No 388, information on the activities of the Advocate for the Rights of the Child for 2015 and observations on the state of the child's rights shall provide a detailed description of the actions and activities taken by the Ombudsman in 2015 aimed at the execution of the tasks imposed by the Constitution and the Act in the area of the protection of the rights and the welfare of the child. A total of 49 674 cases were brought to the Ombudsman's Office in 2015, more than four and a half times more than in 2008, when I had the honour of taking up this office. However, the number of interventions undertaken has remained close since 2013. In 2015, the Ombudsman addressed 116 general speeches to ministers, bodies or institutions. In addition, the Ombudsman, using his statutory powers, if he considered that there was a risk to the interests of the child in the ongoing proceedings, reported and participated in the proceedings on the rights of the prosecutor. In 2015, the Ombudsman exercised this power 231 times. In accordance with the provisions of the Act on the Ombudsman of the Rights of the Child, information, as in previous years, covers five main areas of action for the protection of the youngest. These include the right to life and health care, the right to family education, the right to decent social conditions, the right to education and the right to protection against violence, cruelty, exploitation, demoralisation, negligence or other mistreatment. In view of the wide range of written information, please allow the synthetic recognition and identification of key issues concerning the action taken by the Ombudsman in 2015. In the area of protection of the child's right to life and health, a total of 6119 cases were brought to the Ombudsman in 2015. The Ombudsman asked the authorities and institutions to take action or to provide information on, inter alia, matters relating to:: access to specialist doctors, treatment costs, caries epidemic, access to sanatorium treatment, rehabilitation of children, protection of the life and health of the unborn child, preventive vaccination, respect for the rights of minors patients, so-called. life windows, a basket of child guaranteed benefits, a health care organisation on the population of developmental age, the organisation and functioning of health care institutions, medical errors and claims related to the provision of health services, monitoring from birth the fate of the child and safety in playrooms and playgrounds. To this extent, the Ombudsman took action on individual matters and sent 17 general speeches. Their addresses were the President of the Council of Ministers, the Minister of Health, the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, the President of the National Health Fund and the Chief Health Inspector. In his speeches, the Advocate General strongly responded to the recommendation of the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child recommending the liquidation of the so-called. windows of life. I protested, among others. during the meetings of the committee in Geneva and several times thereafter, including in response to the written recommendations of the committee. In the opinion of the Ombudsman, the so-called. windows of life are an important element in the protection of the fundamental right of the child to live, and I have once again taken the view that the natural right to live with another right should be given priority to the right to live. The views of the Ombudsman were divided by the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy. By directing proposals, comments, recommendations and requests to individual bodies and institutions required to ensure the best possible implementation of the rights of the child, the Ombudsman paid attention, inter alia. the need to prioritise the evaluation of the systemic rehabilitation of children in stationary conditions; the problem of the availability and quality of dental care for children and young people, the effectiveness of this treatment; the still unresolved issue of the use of solar devices by children; the issue of prevention of infectious diseases in the context of an increasing number of parents refusing to immunize children; too easy access to medicines issued without a prescription and containing substances that give psychoactive, addictive or otherwise adverse effects on human health through undesirable effects or interactions; the need to improve the protection of the rights of minors with the most severe injuries; the need to isolate the basket of benefits guaranteed for children; the need to work on legislation restricting access to electronic cigarettes or banning the advertising of nicotine products - other than tobacco products; the availability of optimal treatment for children suffering from tumorous sclerosis, the need to improve the protection of the rights of minors with the development of SEGA brain tumours; problems of children in psychiatric hospitals despite medical indications of further hospitalisation and the quality of the health services of the mother; the child in the field of well-infated activities of young people with the potential for multi-fainfamilities of children; problems of children with the needs for the needs for the needs for the care of children with the needs of children; the needs of children with the care of the needs to be of children with the care of the needs of the needs of the needs of the needs of the needs of children to be of the needs of children of the needs of the needs of children of children of the child to be. for the needs to: to be. Part of the requests made by the Ombudsman for the rights of the child in general speeches have been taken into account. In particular, amendments have been made to: By a regulation changing the scope of child benefits, the age limit was increased until the age of 8 for the benefit: preventive care with a crack lacquer. The Law of 24 April 2015 amending the Law on the Prevention of Drug Addiction and some other laws introduced regulations on the restriction of sales of products containing psychoactive substances. On 2 December 2015, the provisions of the revised Act on State Medical Rescue for the organisation of trauma centres for children entered into force. A system for monitoring the fate of the child has been sealed: a child's health book has been introduced and the need to report the child's birth to the primary care midwife and, in the absence of a commitment, to provide information to the district family care centre. These issues will be further developed by me in my comments on the state of compliance with the rights of the child. A draft law on amending the Health Act against the consequences of the use of tobacco and tobacco products was also drawn up on 9 November 1995, which takes into account the Ombudsman's requests for children's rights from 2014. It prohibits the making available of tobacco and electronic cigarettes to persons up to 18 years old, the advertising and promotion of tobacco and electronic cigarettes and the smoking of electronic cigarettes in public places. With regard to the proposals that have been implemented, I will address further in the follow-up to the discussion of the state of compliance with the rights of the child. To discuss the area of protection of the right of the child to be raised in the family, I would like to stress that the protection of the right to be raised in the biological family has been a priority of the Ombudsman's activities since the beginning. There is no doubt that the biological family is the natural and best environment for the development of the child. For this reason, it should be provided with care and wise help. Putting a child in foster care is the country's furthest interference in the life of the family and causes a diametric change in the situation of the minor. It therefore requires detailed examination of all the circumstances of the case, taking into account the highest order of the child's well-being and interests. The application of State intervention measures in parental authority leading to the taking away of a child should only take place as a last resort. The replacement bake should only be used as a temporary family aid measure if other measures have not had the desired effect or where, because of the circumstances, there is a need for immediate protection of the child. It should be raised here that the right of the family to help from the state is guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. It is the responsibility of the State to ensure the protection of the rights of the child. A child deprived of parental care is entitled to care and assistance from public authorities. The subjectivity of the family and the autonomy of family life are protected by constitutional standards. The right of children to special care and assistance is also included in the preamble and provisions of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. In 2015, a total of 24 851 cases were reported in the category of child's right to raise children in the family to the Ombudsman, i.e. Almost half of all cases which have been brought before the Ombudsman during the year in question. This has been the largest group of cases reported for years. When intervening, the Ombudsman asked the authorities and institutions to take action or to provide information on, inter alia, matters relating to:: the exercise of the right of the child to both parents, the execution of contacts between the child and the parents, the enforcement of judgments, young children in the foster care system, the procedure for the hearing of minors, the protection of the rights of the child in proceedings under the Hague Convention relating to the civilian aspects of the abduction of the child abroad, the right of the child to know his/her identity, proceedings for the removal of a person under parental authority or custody, minor mothers in institutions, support for a biological family experiencing difficulties in carrying out the custody function, respect for the rights of children placed in the foster care system, the protection of the rights of the child in the adoption procedure, the operation of day support facilities, the protection of the rights of minors of aliens and the ratification of the Third Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child. On this subject, the Ombudsman took action on individual matters and sent 19 general speeches. Their addresses were the President of the Republic of Poland, the President of the Council of Ministers, the Minister of Interior, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy, the Minister of Justice, the President of the Parliament's Committee on Justice and Human Rights, the President of the Supreme Chamber of Control, the Prosecutor General, the President of the National Health Fund and the Chief Health Inspector. At this point, it is necessary to indicate the thematic actions of the Ombudsman in the form of general speeches in the direction of initiatives by qualified entities aimed in particular at: ratifying the III Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child. This is an initiative to equip the United Nations Children's Rights Committee with the power to receive and deal with complaints about violations of the rights of the child. The postulate was submitted by the Polish Ombudsman to the Human Rights Council in 2009. Although Poland signed the III Optional Protocol on 30 September 2013, it has not yet ratified it. The Ombudsman continues to call for further work to ratify the document. This will contribute to strengthening the status of the child as a rightholder and improving the functioning of national mechanisms for protecting the rights of the child. The Ombudsman also called for effective protection of the right of the child to both parents. An analysis of the complaints received by the Ombudsman shows that the isolation of a child from one of the parents is a frequently chosen procedural strategy in matters relating to the regulation of the situation of the child after the separation of the parents. The Ombudsman also pointed out the inefficiencies of the legal instruments contained in the existing provisions of the Civil Procedure Code, the Family and Welfare Code, as well as the necessity of penalising the so-called. Parental abductions, passing on relevant projects. The Ombudsman also called for legislative action on the provisions of the Article. 598-598 Civil Procedure Code. The mechanisms contained in these provisions for the performance of child-parent contacts have proved to be ineffective. The Ombudsman has requested that work be initiated on amending the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure and that the catalogue of family law cases from which a cassation complaint is pending be extended to cases settled on the basis of the Hague Convention on the Civil Aspects of the Abduction of a Child Abroad. The introduction of review of decisions by the Supreme Court is an appropriate solution in the Ombudsman's view, enabling the elimination of defective decisions in this regard, and harmonising interpretation of law and judicial practice in matters decided under the Hague Convention. The Ombudsman also asked for legislative action to allow a DNA test to be carried out on the question of determining or denying paternity even in the absence of the consent of the alleged parent. The Ombudsman also called for intensified action against the interference of social services and courts of foreign states with regard to Poles living with children outside the country, resulting in the removal of children from parental care, the prohibition of contact with children, as well as the restriction or deprivation of parental authority. I also called for action to ensure proper implementation of the rights of a child in foster care. I pointed to the problem of placing young children in institutional care, contrary to the provisions of the current law. The Ombudsman also requested action to safeguard the functioning of day-care facilities and to take multi-faceted measures to promote the support mechanism of the family as a form of help to families experiencing difficulties in caring and caring. Once again, the Ombudsman asked for legislative action concerning the hearing or questioning of children during civil proceedings in the so-called. friendly interrogation rooms, similar to a minor's interview and his protection in criminal proceedings. The Ombudsman also asked the Supreme Audit Chamber to carry out checks on the performance of the obligations imposed on the organisers of foster care by the Act on support of the family and foster care system and to develop a comprehensive diagnosis of problems arising in the field of foster care. The Ombudsman acted on the studies and findings carried out and on the prosecutor-general's guidelines on the need to ensure the proper activity of prosecutors in cases of notification pursuant to Article. 598 § 1 of the Code of Civil Procedure on Obstruction of the Forced Reception of a Person Under Parental Authority or Under Care by Hiding That Person or By Taking Other Actions to Obstruction the Enforcement of the Judgment, and Renewed its Proposal to Work on Regulation of the Search of the Apartment and Other Places for the Reception of the Child. In many individual cases, within the framework of statutory powers, the Ombudsman initiated proceedings before the court and also followed the pending proceedings. The appropriate assistance provided to the child by care institutions should be to focus on improving the functioning of the family, which does not allow proper care for children. However, the courts have not always benefited from a full range of legal opportunities to support the family. In these situations it was necessary to intervene, intervention of the Ombudsman. The Ombudsman consistently takes the view that economic and family difficulties cannot be the sole reason for placing the child outside his or her natural educational environment. In situations where the child's life or health is at risk, placing in foster care is a necessary measure, but the financial situation of the family cannot be identified as a direct threat to the child's care and care situation. It should be pointed out with determination that parents' temporary parental failure due to financial failure and family poverty cannot result in a decision to take the child away from their parents. However, at this point it should be pointed out that the indication of placing the child in foster care only because of the parents' poverty has not been confirmed during the examination of the cases identified. Poverty was only one element - and not the main one - to decide to place the child in foster care. In the area of protection of the right of the child to decent social conditions, a total of 3240 cases were reported to the Ombudsman in 2015. The Ombudsman asked the authorities and institutions to take action or to provide information on, inter alia, matters relating to:: maintenance of children and maintenance fund benefits, housing problems, including eviction, execution of maintenance benefits granted abroad by Polish courts, security of meals for children, property claims against children, grant of maternity allowance or survivor's pension by way of exception, procedures for granting family benefits, the granting of benefits in the framework of coordination of social security systems and benefits resulting from a disability decision. To this extent, the Ombudsman took action on individual matters and sent 12 general speeches. They were addressed by the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, the Minister of Justice, the Minister of National Education, the Chairman of the Committee on Social Policy and the Family of the Sejm, the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, the Ombudsman, the Presidents and Mayors of the Cities and the Visitors. In his speeches, the Advocate General pointed out, inter alia, the rights of the child. the need to amend the Law of 28 November 2003 on family benefits for the granting of a child-care allowance in the event of the birth of more than one child in one birth and the abolition of the maximum dimensions of the child-rearing allowance. There is a lack of effectiveness in the application of the provisions of two acts of international law, i.e. The Convention on the Recovery of Maintenance Claims Abroad and Regulation (EC) No 4/2009 of the Council of Europe on jurisdiction of applicable law, recognition and enforcement of decisions and cooperation in matters relating to maintenance obligations where a national of the Italian Republic is required. Another problem is that parents do not have maintenance obligations on their children. The next problems are the long-term enforcement procedures and the very low effectiveness of the enforcement of maintenance claims, as well as an increase in the threshold for entitlement to a maintenance fund benefit. Non-alimentation is a serious social problem, and the Ombudsman has repeatedly repeated general speeches in this area. The Ombudsman also spoke about travel allowances for children without school cards in Polish, as well as poor technical status of playgrounds or their liquidation and safety in playrooms. The following were taken into account from the requests made by the Ombudsman in the general speeches last year. The Ministry of Justice has sent a request to the European Commission for bilateral talks with the Italian party on the quality of cooperation between the Italian receiving authority, delays in the transmission of correspondence and the low efficiency of maintenance claims by applicants who are habitually resident in Poland. In addition, the Minister of Justice asked the District Courts, as institutions performing the tasks of the central authorities, to assess the relevant provisions of the abovementioned EU Regulation. Some of the Ombudsman's requests for child rights in terms of the chronicity and low effectiveness of enforcement proceedings were included in the Act of 10 July 2015 amending the Civil Code Act, the Code of Civil Procedure Act and certain other laws; the date of entry into force - 8 September 2016. Checks have been carried out on entrepreneurs running playrooms and the so-called "Competition and Consumer Protection Office" has been announced. good practices in the organisation of children's playrooms. In the area of protection of the right of the child to study in 2015, a total of 8307 cases were reported to the Ombudsman. The Ombudsman asked the authorities and institutions to take action or to provide information on, inter alia, matters relating to:: assessment of pupils, disciplinary responsibility of teachers, reception, stay of children in crèches, organisation of school work, content of the basis of general education, recruitment of children for kindergartens, stay in a child institution chronically ill, support for children with special educational needs in kindergartens and schools, equalisation of educational gaps and psychological and pedagogical assistance, unequal treatment and discrimination of children, safety and hygiene in kindergarten and school, the weight of school bags, feeding in units of the education system, feeding children at school, the functioning of youth educational centres, the organisation of children's and youth holidays, the validity of applications addressed in matters of pupils to courts and law enforcement agencies, bringing children to schools and kindergartens, including children with disabilities, and the frequent problem of sewice. On this subject, the Ombudsman took action in individual cases and sent 25 general speeches. They were addressed by: Marshal of the Senate of the Republic of Poland, Minister of National Education, Minister of Finance, Chairman of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth of the Sejm, Chairman of the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy of the Sejm, Advocate of the Rights of the Child of the Republic of Lithuania, Voivodeships, Chairman of the Councils of Cities and Municipalities in Poland and Curators of Education. In his speeches, the Advocate General pointed out, inter alia, the rights of the child. for: the need to amend the provisions of the law on disciplinary responsibility of teachers; the need for a statutory definition of concepts of family and children; the problem of applying a digital system of assessment in Polish schools; the organisation of family education classes; the taking of measures in connection with irregularities in the functioning of special educational centres; the provision of funds for the education of children with special educational needs, including children with disabilities; the problem of conditional access of children to pre-school education from the submission of relevant documentation of vaccinations carried out; the non-university provision of education by psychological and pedagogical guidance for the functioning of central education as an educational disability giving rise to a decision on the need for specialized education; the need to extend the content contained in the programme of general education for primary education to the subject of primary education, including education in classes I-III; and the extension of the scope of the subject matter of education for the safety of secondary education and secondary education to the content of the quality of education; the need to provide for the purpose of providing first aid; the need for the prevention of young people in Poland for rehabilitation purposes; the needs of children; the needs of children who do not have a secondary education in the child's of the child's of the child's; the possibility to the child's. The Ombudsman gave the Minister of National Education to the Ombudsman's team on the subject. standardise the stay of children in youth education centres and youth sociotherapy centres in the field of education, care and education standards for children and young people in sociotherapy centres and youth educational centres, which in the assessment of the Ombudsman will result in the necessary changes in the functioning of these institutions. The mission and role of educational and sociotherapeutic centres is to prepare pupils for independent, creative and responsible life in non-institutional conditions. The content of the standards was taken into account in the provisions of the Regulation of the Minister for National Education of 2 November 2015 on the types and detailed rules of operation of public institutions, the conditions for the stay of children and young people in these institutions and the amount and rules of payment paid by parents for their children's stay in these institutions. This Regulation shall enter into force on 1 September 2016, with the exception of § 15, which shall apply from 1 January 2017. On the other hand, the Ombudsperson's Panel on Children's Rights. standardization of children's stay in foster care has produced a document on standardization of children's stay in nursing institutions. Standardization in the Ombudsman's assessment will improve respect for the rights of the child in the care and care facility. The Ombudsman asked the Minister for Labour and Social Policy to take action to disseminate this document. In addition, the Ombudsman proposed amendments to the Regulation on institutional foster care. The Ombudsman's actions resulted in a joint speech by the Ombudsman and the Minister for Labour and Social Policy to the elders who made recommendations on this matter. Developed by the team document Mon. Recommendations concerning the stay of children in nursing establishments are recommended for the rights of the child in order to organise the stay of children in nursing establishments. The implementation of guidelines for daily work with children serves the proper organisation of care and education for children in these institutions. Since 2011, the Ombudsman has repeatedly asked the Minister of National Education to amend the rules on disciplinary responsibility of teachers. The subject of disciplinary proceedings by teachers was also raised in the speeches of the Ombudsman addressed to the Sejm Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Senate Committee on Science, Education and Sport. The Ombudsman also pointed out that there were no provisions to safeguard the child's well-being in disciplinary proceedings in previous years in his observations on the state of compliance with the rights of the child, which are an integral part of the annual information to Parliament on the Ombudsman's activities, as well as in the recommendations addressed to the United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Child contained in the Ombudsman's report on the implementation of the Committee's recommendations of 4 October 2002 submitted to the Committee in July 2015. It should be noted with satisfaction that most of the Ombudsman's requests for child protection in the disciplinary proceedings of teachers were included in the Act of 18 March 2016 on the amendment of the Teacher Charter Act and some other laws. Other requests put forward by the Ombudsman in the general speeches were also implemented. In particular, the Minister of National Education acknowledged the merits of changing the curriculum basis to the subject of family education and that the current textbooks did not meet the expectations of pupils and parents, and declared the establishment of a team of experts, which will develop, among others. materials for teachers teaching this subject. The materials for teachers were placed on the website of the Ministry on 29 October 2015. Education curators were required to take measures to support the adaptation of the functioning of special educational centres to the provisions of the Law of 20 February 2015 amending the Law on the system of education and certain other laws. The Minister of Finance, in line with the Ombudsman's argument, asked the Minister of National Education to target the issue of the allocation and spending of resources by schools and institutions to carry out tasks related to the application of a special organisation and working methods with children and young people. Changes in the system of financing the education of pupils with special educational needs have been initiated in the Ministry of National Education by clarifying the clear principles of the training of this group of pupils. The provisions of the new Regulation on the types and detailed rules of operation of public institutions and the Regulation on the conditions for organising education, education and care for children and young people with disabilities, not socially adapted and at risk of social inadequacy, have become part of the protection of the needs of pupils with special educational needs. However, it should be pointed out that further changes are needed in this area. The Minister of National Education shared the position of the Ombudsman concerning doubts as to the legality of the child's access to preschool education from the submission of documentation on the vaccinations carried out and doubts as to the violation of the constitutional right to equal access to science and compliance with the provisions of the Education System Act. All children covered by the pre-school preparation obligation must be admitted to public establishments in accordance with the law in force in this respect. A consultant for integration and work with foreign children was appointed at the Polish school, whose task is to develop training and information materials concerning admission to school of foreign children and teaching work with them, as well as conducting information and training meetings for school directors, teachers, students, parents and local communities. In the area of child's right to protection against violence, cruelty, exploitation, demoralisation, negligence and other mistreatment in 2015, a total of 5172 cases were reported to the Ombudsman. The Ombudsman asked the authorities and institutions to take action or to provide information on, inter alia, matters relating to: neglect and violence in the home environment, physical, mental and sexual violence, peer violence, violence in schools, kindergartens, crèches and other forms of care, violence in educational, sociotherapeutic and rehabilitation institutions, violations of the right to privacy and abuse. To the extent indicated, the Ombudsman acted on individual matters and addressed 13 speeches in general. They were addressed by the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Administration and Digitisation, the Minister of Home Affairs, the Minister of Economy, the Minister of Culture and National Heritage and the Ombudsman for Civil Rights and Voivodeships. In his speeches, the Advocate General pointed out, inter alia, the rights of the child. to: the need for legislative work aimed at enhancing the protection of the rights of the child by ensuring professional representation of the child in legal proceedings - it is called. the probation officer - placing children over 15 years of age under compulsory hearing in friendly conditions in criminal proceedings, making changes to the disposal of the article. 41 § 1a The Penal Code in the direction of mandatory judgment of this measure, where the victim is a minor, the prohibition of taking up a post, pursuing a profession or activities related to education, education, treatment or care of minors, the extension of the catalogue of non-disclosure convictions and the catalogue of offences not subject to statute where the victim is a child, as well as the amendment of the Act on Radio and Television in the area of the obligation of audiovisual media service providers on demand to keep copies of advertising and other communications made available to the public, which would be a condition for their subsequent review for compliance with the Act. The Ombudsman pointed out that the courts had problems assessing the behaviour of the criminal courts in the application of criminal penalties. The Ombudsman called for action to give minors increased protection against their use for begging. The Ombudsman raised the problem of unequal access to the Large Family Charter. I also pointed out problems related to the child care allowance allowance during the period of parental leave and raised problems regarding the performance of the school obligation by minors of foreigners. The Ombudsman also drew attention to discrimination, violations of the right of the child to both parents, protection of the right to privacy and the image of the child, lack of an appropriate system to control the designation of age categories of films displayed in cinemas. An important element of the Ombudsman's activities was the request for a detailed analysis of the proceedings initiated as a result of the application by the head of the prison in accordance with Article. 9 Act of 22 November 2013 on the treatment of persons with mental disorders that pose a risk to the life, health or sexual freedom of other persons and on the taking of actions that will best safeguard ongoing and future proceedings conducted in the manner indicated by the Act. The Ombudsman stressed the need to develop and implement systemic solutions which would require courts and judicial experts to recognise these cases before the end of the penalty for applicants. In line with the Ombudsman's requests, the Ministry of Justice collects and analyses the information of the Presidents of the Appeals Courts and the District Courts on an ongoing basis, as well as appropriate action has been taken in the framework of external administrative supervision. In order to discuss the Ombudsman's participation in judicial and administrative proceedings, I would like to remind you that during the period covered by the information, the Ombudsman, acting on the rights of the prosecutor, took part in 231 legal proceedings in matters relating to parental authority relating to the determination of the origin of the child, the adoption, related to the demoralisation of minors, social security related to the protection of the child's property, the clearance of the premises or the fixing of the amount of the educational part of the general subsidy, and brought an appeal to the Supreme Court. This case concerned the remission of the preliminary proceedings for actions under Article. 200 § 1 k.k. - to bring a minor under the age of 15 to undergo other sexual activities, and Article. § 202 § 2 k.k. - presenting pornographic content to a minor under 15 years of age. The Cassation was taken into account and the Supreme Court divided the argument of the Ombudsman. In 2015, the Ombudsman declared his participation in the proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal and supported the constitutional complaint concerning the compatibility of the Article. The 10th Act on Family Benefits with the Constitution, and also put forward a position on the proposal of a group of Members at the 7th Sejm on the compatibility with the Constitution of certain provisions of the Anti-Family Violence Act. In respect of the control activities on its own initiative or in view of the notified indication of a breach of the rights of the child, the Ombudsman of children's rights in cooperation with the Supreme Audit Office has carried out an analysis of acts 33 of the Supreme Audit Chamber in which the children of the family were removed from the courts. The examination of legal proceedings did not reveal a breach of the rights of the child. The analysis is included in the NIK Report on Public Administrations in a situation of threat of taking the child away from parents. The Ombudsman carried out 162 on-the-spot investigations. They included forms of foster care, i.e. 14 institutions, youth social therapy center, youth educational centers, independent public health care facility, social services centre, women's hut, social services house and children's and young people's rest. The tests showed a number of abnormalities. In each of these cases, comments and conclusions have been issued. The Ombudsman shall monitor the state of compliance with the rights of the child in establishments on an ongoing basis. The Ombudsman of the rights of the child carried out an examination of the state of compliance with the rights of the child in 32 randomly selected childcare facilities from all over Poland, where children aged 0 and 6 are present. The investigation revealed irregularities concerning the placement of young children in institutional care facilities contrary to the provisions of the Family Support Act and the foster care system. A detailed description of the study is given in Annex 12 to the information presented to the High House. During the period covered by the information in the performance of his duties, the Ombudsman cooperated with the Ombudsman, the spokesperson for the rights of the patient, the Supreme Audit Office, the General Data Protection Officer, the Police Headquarters, the State Agency for the Solution of Alcohol Problems. He also participated in the work of the Interministerial Group for the European Court of Human Rights, the Round Table for Disabled Persons, the Interministerial Group for Combating and Preventing Trade in People. The Ombudsman also collaborated with other actors, including representatives of the world of science, NGOs, representatives of various departments, as well as practices. In 2015, the Ombudsman also cooperated with Parliament. I have participated in many meetings of the Sejm and the Senate, as well as in meetings, among others. Commission: Education, Science and Youth, Home Affairs, Local Government and Regional Policy, Public Finance, Social Policy and Family, Justice and Human Rights, Health, Legislative and other committees and parliamentary subcommittees. The Ombudsman also took part in meetings of parliamentary teams, including the Parliamentary Group for Affairs. Kids, Parliamentary Team. Anti-Obesity and Troubleshooting or Parliamentary Team for Deaf people. Cooperation with the parliament of the Republic of Poland concerned in particular participation in the work on the Senate bill amending the Family and Care Code Act and the Code of Civil Procedure Act, the draft law of the Family and Care Code, the Code of Civil Procedure Act and the law on supporting the family and foster care system, as well as in the work on the introduction of the medical document, i.e. the children's health books. In addition, the Ombudsman took an active part in the consultation of 32 draft laws, regulations and other acts. Three areas need to be distinguished in the area of international cooperation between the Ombudsman. The first is cooperation within the European Network of Ombudsmen of the Rights of the Child, namely ENOC, and meetings promoting the protection of the rights of the child and the institution of the ombudsman in the world, carried out in the form of inter alia. annual meetings of the Baltic children's rights spokespersons, study visit of representatives of the Ukrainian Parliamentary Commissioner for Human Rights and annual meeting of the European Network of Ombudsmen of Children's Rights in Amsterdam. The second area of international cooperation of the Ombudsman is cooperation with Polish consular posts. It dealt with complaints from Polish citizens residing abroad, concerning the activities of institutions of foreign countries which interfered with the rights of their children. The greatest number of problems reported to the Ombudsman concerned the interference of social services in the exercise of parental authority by parents or carers and decisions given in Member States determining the whereabouts of the child differently. I would just like to remind you that, by taking action in such cases, the Ombudsman has very limited capacity to act, because he is not entitled to request explanations from foreign authorities or to initiate proceedings before foreign courts or other institutions or to participate in these proceedings. For this reason, the Ombudsman benefited from the assistance of Polish consular posts and addressed his foreign counterparts - spokespersons of children's rights in the European ENOC network. The third area is the cooperation between the Ombudsman and representatives of the European and international institutions and meetings to promote the rights of the child in the world. They were conferences, meetings, seminars. One of the most important was the preparation by the Ombudsman of the rights of the child of an alternative report on the implementation of the recommendations of the United Nations Children's Rights Committee submitted to the Geneva Committee. This report is attached to Annex 14 to the information submitted. In 2015, the Ombudsman also implemented the statutory obligation to promote the rights of the child, initiated events to raise awareness, better understanding and understanding of the rights of the youngest citizens. These activities were carried out in children and adolescents as well as in adults. An important element here was the cooperation with NGOs, as well as social advisors to the Ombudsman who, on behalf of the Ombudsman, participated in meetings throughout the country. A total of 58 thousand attended meetings with the Ombudsman in 2015. children and adolescents. By raising awareness of the rights of the child, the Ombudsman also met with students, including medical, legal and pedagogical universities, who will work with children in the future. He visited among others. universities in Cracow, Słupsk, Szczecin, Warsaw, Gdańsk, Toruń, Lublin and Włocławek. In 2015, the Ombudsman sent 15 commemorative letters and took the honorary patronage of 287 events, in particular those organised by non-governmental organisations, scientific institutions and public administrations. By granting patronage, the Ombudsman was guided by the criterion of the dissemination of the rights of the child and actions resulting in the improvement of the respect for the rights of the child in Poland. As in previous years, the Social Council of Advisers to the Ombudsman and the Committee on the Codification of Family Rights at the Ombudsman's Office continued their work, working on a new approach to family law, parental responsibility and guaranteeing the subjectivity of the child. The work of the committee is coming to an end and I think I will soon present to the High House the conclusions of its work. As in previous years, also in 2015, the Ombudsman held a competition for the best doctoral and master's thesis on the protection of the rights of the child. In the context of the Ombudsman's library, the Ombudsman published publications such as e.g.: The Convention on the Rights of the Child. The choice of issues (articles and comments) and the rights of the child. United Nations documents, violence in upbringing. Between the legal ban and the social acceptance of cybersexual offences to the detriment of a minor in the Polish and American legal order. With the end of the 2014/2015 school year on the starting day of the summer, the Ombudsman launched a social campaign The campaign's task was to draw the attention of children and young people to the fact that courage is also the ability to make wise decisions, the ability to assertive attitudes, responsibility for themselves and loved ones. The second social campaign of the Ombudsman in 2015 was the campaign "Bit," and it's time to stop. Its purpose was to publicise violence against children, to change social attitudes, above all to lower the level of aggression and to approve the use of physical punishments. The campaign - today's social movement - proposed by the Ombudsman in 2013 is also continuing. You have the right. Comments on the state of compliance with the rights of the child, which form an integral part of the Ombudsman's activity information for 2015, as in previous years have been divided into two parts. In the first they point to the Ombudsman's demands to improve the protection of the rights of the youngest citizens. In the second, according to the systematics resulting from the Act on the Ombudsman of the Rights of the Child, they indicate areas in which bodies and institutions should take action to improve the respect of the rights of the child in Poland. With regard to the proposals implemented in 2015, changes aimed at improving the child's right to health and life by sealing the child's fate monitoring system should first be assessed positively. This system consists of three elements. First, the amendment of the Regulation of the Minister of Health of 20 September 2012 on standards of medical procedures for the provision of perinatal care services to women during the physiological period of pregnancy, physiological childbirth, childbirth and newborn care. These changes prevent the so-called changes. the loss of the youngest patients in the health care system in the absence of a child being admitted to a medical facility to take care of him. They will prevent unwanted negligence in the care of children. Secondly, the medical document, the child's health book, requested by the Ombudsman since 2012. Thirdly, standards of medical procedures for the provision of preventive care services for children and young people. Work is still underway in this area in the health department and I hope that these standards will be introduced into the law. The Ombudsman has also taken numerous steps to improve the availability of dental services for children and young people. In my speeches to the President of the Council of Ministers, the Minister of Health and the President of the National Health Fund, I have repeatedly asked for systematic action to improve the oral state of children and young people, and I have identified specific problems which require immediate action. In this respect, the only tangible change was to implement the Ombudsman's request for free coverage of guaranteed lacing of the first molar teeth in children up to the age of 8. There is still insufficient availability of dental services for children. On the other hand, the number of institutions performing such treatments under general anaesthesia has been increased. This applies primarily to children with disabilities. Currently in all voivodships at least two institutions secure the performance of these benefits, while in most voivodships the number of these facilities is five and more. We had one where it wasn't at all. The issue raised by the Ombudsman in 2015 was the access of children to non-prescription medicinal products. According to the Ombudsman, preparations containing psychoactive, hormonal or addictive substances should not be available to minors without restrictions. As a result of the Ombudsman's actions, the anti-drug law and the pharmaceutical law have changed and entered into force on 1 January 2017. - although further changes are needed, particularly in the field of hormonal medicines. Let me remind you that the Ombudsman of the rights of the child questioned the validity of legal admission to sell a hormonal agent without a doctor's prescription. At the time, I emphasized that the Ombudsman's consent was not to pass on responsibility for taking the medicine from adults to children. Since 2011, the Ombudsman has repeatedly requested that access in kindergartens, schools and educational establishments be restricted to food products containing foodstuffs which adversely affect the proper development and health of children and young people, pointing in particular to the problem of overweight and obesity. The provisions that entered into force in 2015 have met the Ombudsman's demands on nutrition standards for children and young people. The Ombudsman also took steps to better protect the right of the child to be raised by both parents. One of the most important changes made was the Ombudsman's request for a change in the Family and Care Code in determining parental authority in the event of divorce or separation of parents - Article. Article 58 and Article 58 of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 should therefore be amended accordingly. 107 The family and caring code - the dependence of court decisions solely on the welfare of the child and the statutory status of the child's right to be brought up by both parents. In 2015, for the first time in the Polish legal order, the concept of the right of the child to be raised by both parents appeared, which was the result of a proposal and concrete legislative proposals. The Act also removed from the court the obligation to settle relations with the child when they are held without conflict. The court is to leave the parents of the child free to form these contacts at the request of the parties. Changes have also been made to the Code of Civil Procedure by harmonising the composition of the court ruling in caring matters, which will undoubtedly improve the conduct of judicial proceedings. The draft amendment was drawn up by the Committee on the Codification of Family Law in front of the Ombudsman and thanks to the kindness of two Senate committees: the Committee on Justice and Human Rights and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, the Senate took a legislative initiative in this area. An important change advocated by the Ombudsman was the legal regulation of the so-called. adoption with indication. The amendment ensured control over the adoption process, introduced additional mechanisms to safeguard the rights of the child in the adoption procedure, normalized the type of adoption that has so far been a common tool to circumvent the law and to cause the child to be treated in question. The new regulation reduces the so-called phenomenon. adoptive basement. Another very important problem sought by the Ombudsman of the rights of the child was the need to standardise the conditions of stay of children and young people in educational and social education institutions. The standards developed by the panel appointed by the Ombudsman became a serious argument when the Minister for National Education issued a regulation of 2 November 2015 on the types and detailed rules of operation of public institutions, the conditions for the stay of children and young people in these institutions, and the amount and rules of payment paid by parents for their children's stay in these institutions, and developed by the Team on. Standardization of the Children's Stay in the Replacement Bakery The recommendations concerning the stay of children in nursing establishments have become the basis for improving the quality of care and support provided to children by such institutions. In 2015, the Ombudsman's request for changes in the principles of intra-school evaluation was met in order to build a positive attitude between pupils and physical education classes. The new provisions of the Law on the Education System and the Regulation of the Minister of Health entered into force on 1 September 2015. A particularly important change requested by the Ombudsman since 2011 was the proper protection of the children questioned in the disciplinary proceedings of teachers. The proposals implemented concern the limitation of disciplinary misconduct, the conduct of a child's hearing only in the absence of a teacher blamed and with the participation of a psychologist. The child's parent, legal guardian or substitute guardian may also be present during the hearing. This year's amendment to the Teacher's Charter also took into account a number of requests made by the Ombudsman. Fuller protection of the rights of the child during organized holidays for children and young people will serve as revised provisions of the Education System Act in 2015. One of the most important changes requested by the Ombudsman is the fine for the holiday organizer who has not made his application to the relevant school curator. Such regulation will eliminate or significantly reduce the phenomenon of illegal leisure and the possibility for the same organiser to verify the organisation of leisure activities reported in the following years at the time of registration. Since 2013, the Ombudsman of the rights of the child in the State of compliance with the rights of the child has consistently raised the lack of an integrated system of free legal assistance. This postulate was implemented by the Law of 5 August 2015 on Free Legal Assistance and Legal Education. An important element of the Ombudsman's activities was the preparation and presentation of a report containing an assessment of compliance in Poland with the Convention on the Rights of the Child. An alternative document to the government contains information on the extent to which the Polish authorities implemented the recommendations of the Children's Rights Committee of 4 October 2002. The final recommendations of the UN Children's Rights Committee largely coincide with the recommendation of the Ombudsperson on the rights of the child contained in this report. I would like to stress that much has already been done towards the implementation of the rights of the child under the Convention on the Rights of the Child. For what is still to be done, we are jointly responsible and for this joint work on behalf of the children, I cordially ask you. High Izbo! Thank you very much for listening to this part of the Ombudsman's information. I also thank you for what has already been accomplished. I would also like to mention the Ombudsman's comments and requests, which need urgent attention. They are described in detail in part of the information about the state of the child's rights. Since it is quite extensive material, I will only allow myself to signal the most important of them by password. I trust that the government and Parliament will examine the comments submitted and the proposals and will take steps to improve the respect for the rights of the child. And so the first part concerns the right of the child to live and to protect health. The state of the child's right to life and health needs to pay particular attention to: the quality of medical services provided to children, underestimation of paediatric and dental services for children, the need for an annual examination of each child by a pediatrician, insufficient access to specialist doctors, the lack of medical standards in the prevention of health care of children from 5 to 18 years of age, the quality of services and access to psychiatric care, insufficient efforts to improve the condition of the teeth of children, the problem of overweight and obesity among children, the quality of maternity care, insufficient health care in pre-schools and schools, insufficient cooperation between healthcare providers, limited access to treatments carried out in non-commercial clinical trials and certain modern drugs, self-injury, suicide attempts, even suicide attempts, the problem of supporting young parents, including minors, drinking alcohol by pregnant women, limited access to treatment for children with disorders of the spectrum of autism, the use of alcohol and other psychoactive agents by children, limited access to judicial experts in many fields of medicine and necessary for the determination of disability, the use of children as well as well as well as children in children in children's health, in children's and in the use of children's of children. The state of compliance with the rights of the child as regards the right to family upbringing requires special attention: supporting biological families, the need to improve parental competence, the right of the child to be brought up by both parents, the need to regulate the problem of so-called. parental abductions, low awareness of parents of the consequences of abducting a child abroad, stability of the educational environment of children placed in foster care, small children placed in institutional foster care, judicial monitoring of the fate of the child and his/her biological family, chronic court proceedings, the functioning of the family court, limitation of children who are away from the family biological contact with loved ones, adoption of children with disabilities, guaranteeing that minors are able to raise children, insufficient representation of the child, inefficiencies of enforcement proceedings, inefficiencies of proceedings for the execution of the child's contact with his/her parents, the need to hear the child's matters concerning him/her, the lack of a procedure to hear the child in civil proceedings, the generalisation of mediation in family matters, the lack of an integrated system for obtaining information by the courts, the status of a judicial guardian in family and care of the child, the lack of action by a care centre for the return of children to biological families, the inclusion of all children who are deprived of the biological protection system, the legal capacity of the child in Poland, the care of the child's with whom they are required to monitor of the child's. The state of the child's rights in respect of the right to decent social conditions requires special attention to: poverty and homelessness among children, very low effectiveness of the enforcement of maintenance services, difficulties in enforcing maintenance benefits decided by Polish courts from parents residing outside our country, limited access to maintenance fund benefits, consequences of parental income emigration, social assistance system for families with children, lack of protection of housing needs of families with children, lack of temporary shelters for families with children, lack of sufficient information on child benefits, assistance for children with disabilities, inconsistencies in the case-law of district disability decision-making teams, architectural barriers, lack of homes for mothers and fathers with minors and pregnant women, poor technical condition and removal of playgrounds. The state of the child's right to study requires particular attention to: teacher training in practical preparation for work, pupil assessment practice, management of school work by directors, application of penalties affecting the child's dignity, access to care for children, access to pre-school education of 3 years of age, equal opportunities for pupils with disabilities, organisation of psychological and pedagogical assistance in kindergartens, schools and institutions, monitoring the quality of youth work of educational centres, youth socio-therapy centres and childcare facilities, lack of coherence of educational activities in schools, care in educational institutions for children with disabilities and chronically ill persons, feeding children in educational systems, financing of children's needs with disabilities, cooperation with parents and guardians of children, the operation of day-care facilities, transport of children to schools and pre-schools, low level of legal education, access to children who are blind and ill-sighted to textbooks, the quality of the procedure to self-relation of children with disabilities, access to children's new educational technologies, access to children with disabilities only all leisure participants are children with disabilities, mainly because of the dislike of organizers and barriers - access to cultural goods for children with disabilities, equal treatment of pupils taking part in competitions organised by school curators, fulfilment of obligations concerning amenities in television programmes for persons with disabilities. The state of child's rights in the field of protection against violence, cruelty, exploitation, demoralisation, negligence and other mistreatment requires special attention: the application of carnal penalties to children, the need to act effectively against hate speech, the need to respond to violence against children, tightening penalties for the use of violence against children, preventing and combating child sexual abuse, the representation of the child in criminal proceedings, ensuring adequate protection for minors in judicial proceedings, a reference, unfortunately, to the so-called. non-legal countertype of child discipline, criminal and probation measures to prevent family violence, child violence by guardians and teachers, conditions for the hearing of minors and victims in criminal matters, uniform rules for the qualification of teachers, participation of medical services in the recognition of violence among children, extension of the catalogue of cases excluding an institution of conviction, application of a ban on working with children convicted of violence against minors, disciplinary proceedings for teachers, objectification of the child in public space, content of court proceedings, protection of children from inappropriate content disseminated in cinemas, monitoring the functioning of the law on the prevention of violence in the family and listing the child and his/her gender in statistics on victims of violence. High Izbo! I hope that this information on the activities of the Ombudsman will be helpful in further parliamentary work, which will help to guarantee even higher standards of protection of the rights and welfare of the child in Poland. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u251	Thank you, Mr. Spokesman. Please take the floor of Mr Kazimierz Moskal in order to present the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u252	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Joint Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy a report of the committee at today's Sejm. Ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with the Article. 12 of the Act on the Ombudsman for the Rights of the Child presented information on his activity for 2015, together with observations on the state of compliance with the rights of the child. As you can see, this is a comprehensive document. If this were to be discussed any longer, then probably the spokesperson of the rights of the child could talk about it by midnight, but it's not about how much we talk, it's about what we say, because it's important. I'm supposed to tell you what happened at the committee meeting on 18 May 2016. Well, ladies and gentlemen, as the Ombudsman today presented information about his activity for the previous year, so it was similar at the meeting of the joint committees - he also presented an extensive speech about his activity. As I have pointed out, if only time were to decide whether this was a good or a bad speech, we could judge it in this way. But at the meeting of the joint committees there were speeches by Members. There have been speeches on the one hand very, but it is very commendable of your Ombudsman, on the other hand there have been speeches by some Members who have noticed some confusion, irregularities about his particular activities. It's about maintenance arrears, limitations on the right to home education, fixing the error of the courts. There were also allegations concerning the co-financing of the publication by members of the family of the Ombudsman's children's rights, there were comments on the effectiveness of the Ombudsman's work, there were allegations that it was merely action, reporting. However, there were also comments that a positive assessment of the work should be made, and criticism should be regarded as unreasonable negation, even a political approach. In addition to Members, there were people who represented certain institutions, important institutions in the area of the functioning of the rights of the child. A member of the professional union of workers of the correctional establishments reported some cases of behaviour in MOWs and had objections that there was nothing in the report that the relationship had been left to itself. That's the charge. A representative of the Association of Free Society also submitted a reservation, even a request... Of course you can't. the proposal was accepted because that was not the purpose of the meeting of these committees. It proposed to convene a meeting to hear the public opinion on the work of the Ombudsman and to assess the grounds for his dismissal. She called for a committee meeting, suggested that there were indications that there was some kind of inaction and support for and concealing violations of children's rights to family life and protection against violence. She said she had a lot of examples to justify these allegations. In addition, a representative of the Professional Union, the Council of Counsellors, thanked for the recommendations that were included in the report. So that was the person who praised your child's attorney. On the other hand, a representative of the Association for the Protection of the Rights of the Child had some reservations about the Ombudsman's inaction regarding child abductions. After the speeches of parliamentarians, after the speeches of representatives of various associations and associations, the Ombudsman replied, including the Ombudsman's advisor, the judge presented a point of view and the joint committee meeting ended at that point. As it is not possible to vote in favour or to reject the information here, as such were the proposals, the meeting was concluded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u253	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in its discussion on this item it would hear ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and a five-minute statement on behalf of the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Zbigniew Dolata, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u254	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the information of the Ombudsman on the activities of the child in 2015, together with comments on the state of compliance with the rights of the child contained in print No 388. Reading the Ombudsman's information is becoming increasingly difficult from year to year, mainly due to the avalanchely increasing volume of children's rights. In the first year of activity, the information was 131 pages, but for 2010 there were 284 pages, for 2013 - 313 pages, and the information currently under consideration is 535 pages. I'd like to ask you if Mr. Spokesman wouldn't mind putting together a obnoxious piece that no one or hardly anybody will read. I'll admit I read it all. I think I am one of the few Members who have read this information. How much more action could you take to prepare synthetic information? You kind of remind me of a student who, when asked by a teacher, tells me everything he knows instead of focusing on the content of the question. I think it could be done in a way that makes more sense. But let's get to the information. It shows that you have trouble distinguishing matters that are important from those of a smaller caliber that you devote a great deal of space to. An example is a tapeworm story about a banking mascot. Against this background, you are astonished at your passiveness on the most important point: the protection of the right to life. You seem to be completely ignoring the art. 2 (2) 1 Act on the spokesman who says that a child is every human being from conception to adulthood. Why don't you intervene in a number of abortions? I mean, it's art. 3 (1) (a) The 4th Act states explicitly: the Ombudsman has a special concern and assistance surrounding children with disabilities. And many cases of abortion involve a situation where it is intended to detect defects in unborn children. However, in order to demonstrate any action at the point: the right to life, you have asked several ministries to take action to protect the welfare of a child at risk of losing his or her health or life as a result of the irresponsible behaviour of pregnant women who abuse alcohol or other psychoactive substances. The issue is undoubtedly important, but incomparable with the issue of abortion. It would be good for you to take care of, for example. abortion underground or abortion tourism, because such phenomena also occur. In your favour, the Minister of Labour and Social Policy speaks in defence of the so-called. the windows of life, whose liquidation was demanded by the Polish Committee on the Rights of the Child of the United Nations, and the negative attitude towards the draft regulation in which the Minister of Health assumed to leave the child free to acquire hormonal contraceptives. You haven't seen the pathological phenomenon of child withdrawal for a very long time because of your parents' poverty. Your eyes only opened in December 2015, following the publication on the website of the Ministry of Justice's publication entitled: The proposal adopted by the Council of Ministers on 61 cases where poor economic and living conditions for families were the only reason for decisions to place a minor outside the biological family. Earlier, despite numerous media information, the Ombudsman did not intervene, and in any case we do not know anything about it. In general, the Ombudsman avoided actions or even speaking on those issues which would be cumbersome for the Platform coalition and the PSL which carried him to the office. An excellent illustration of this thesis was the indifference of the spokesman against the protests of the parents concentrated in action. They demanded the right to decide at what age their children would start fulfilling their schooling obligations. But you didn't intervene because your six-year-old duty has pushed your political environment. Somehow your sensitive heart remained cold this time like ice to those six-year-olds who didn't show school readiness, and they were sent to the first grade and were exposed to a lot of stress from school failure. Those kids and their parents didn't get the help of the spokesperson. On the other hand, the Ombudsman asked for the strengthening of pedagogical supervision of the implementation of the rights of pupils in youth educational centres, i.e. MOWs, which are probably the Ombudsman's obsession, because he deals with them on many pages of information. You have been worried about the increase in complaints about violations of the rights of MOW's pupils, which you want to protect from all forms of psychological and physical violence. This would be commendable if not for the fact that this violence is for the Ombudsman, for example. restricting the use of mobile phones or freedom of movement on the premises. In short, the spokesperson strikes at educational activities in MOWs, to which difficult young people often contest all educational activities. The Ombudsman does not understand that the presence of such a young man in an ordinary school becomes a torment for his colleagues and teachers and that moving him to MOW is a good educational solution. The Ombudsman is also very active in the field of the fight against hate speech. From the information we know that he considers, for example, a speech of hatred. any criticism of the left-wing dogma about the need to open the borders of Poland to waves of migrants coming to Europe. Mr Ombudsperson, the lack of consent to imposing amounts of migrants in Poland is not a hate speech, nor is it contrary to the idea of helping people in need. Please read the basics of Christian morality. Another example of ideological blurring of the Ombudsman is the position that it is the responsibility of the Polish school and kindergarten to prevent all discrimination. The adoption of such educational dogma is a dream of leftist circles promoting moral relativism. After all, on this basis it would be impossible to distinguish between right and wrong, because calling a course or an attitude of evil would immediately be considered to be prohibited discrimination. Did the spokesman seek to deprive the Polish school of any axiological basis and in return promote the discredited policy of multiculti and other left-wing fantasies? By striking the axiological foundations of the Polish school, questioning the authority of teachers, the spokesman also accuses the Polish school of passiveness against the phenomenon of peer violence which has been growing in recent years. This is a contradiction in itself. In conclusion, the Ombudsman understands and treats the rights of the child in a specific way. Although you and your office are taking a lot of action, I have doubts as to whether they contribute to improving the situation of children. It can be said that you are a hostage to the left-liberal salon, which significantly hinders or even prevents the proper execution of the mission entrusted to you. It should be considered whether it would not be appropriate to change the person holding the office of the Ombudsman for the benefit of Polish children. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[It's an embarrassing performance.]] [[It's really embarrassing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u255	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Alicia Chybicka, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u256	Mrs. Marshal! Minister... [[Christian values?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u257	I'm asking you to calm down. Everyone gives a witness with their speeches, everything was heard what the Member said.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u258	To be honest, I'm amazed at my predecessor. I don't understand how so many unfair accusations could have been filed against a child's attorney. I don't understand how you can accuse someone of doing so much that it took so much paper to describe it. He wrote what he did this past year, and for that he deserves to be bowed down and commended. And I don't think he's anyone's hostage. He's not a hostage to any party or... If he's someone's hostage, it's the kids and he's always doing everything for the kids. And what's contained in this great tom is that we're talking about children. Sorry for the brief introduction. On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I have the honour to present my position on information on the activities of the Ombudsman for 2015 together with observations on the state of compliance with the rights of the child, print No 388. According to the Act on the Ombudsman of the Rights of the Child, the annual information relates to five levels of activity. In the first part, these are topics concerning the right to protection of life and health. In 2015, the Ombudsman took 169 interventions in relation to this area. The second area is the area of the right to raise in the family. Here the largest number of interventions notified and taken by the Ombudsman is 24 851 cases last year. It's huge, isn't it? The third area concerns the right to decent social conditions. In 2015, the Office of the Ombudsperson of the Children's Rights took 3,240 interventions, mainly concerning child maintenance and maintenance fund benefits, housing problems, including eviction and enforcement of maintenance benefits abroad decided by Polish courts, property claims against children, the subject of children starving and malnourished, maternity allowance, survivor's pension by way of an exception procedure for granting family benefits and benefits resulting from disability decisions. The fourth area concerns the right of a child to study widely. In 2015, 8307 interventions were undertaken. These included the assessment of pupils, disciplinary responsibility of teachers, taking children to daycare and their stay in daycare, the organisation of school work, the content of the programme basis, psychological and pedagogical assistance, the weight of the bags, feeding in units of the educational system, feeding children at school, delivering to schools and kindergartens. The fifth area concerns the child's right to protect against violence, cruelty, exploitation, demoralization and negligence and other mistreatment. The Bureau took 5172 cases. In 2015, the Ombudsman addressed 116 general speeches to ministers, institutions and other bodies. In addition, the Ombudsman, using his statutory powers, has taken part in and participated in judicial proceedings on the rights of the prosecutor if he considers that there is a risk to the welfare of the child in the ongoing proceedings. In 2015, the Ombudsman made use of this right in 231 cases. As part of his cooperation with the Supreme Audit Chamber, he analysed 33 custody files selected by the Supreme Audit Chamber, in which the decision of the court removed children from their families and suspected that this might have been caused by the material situation of the family. These 33 cases have been carefully analysed by lawyers, judges, lawyers of the Ombudsman's Office. The examination of legal proceedings did not reveal a violation of the rights of the child to be raised in the family in these cases. It's just some of the activities of a child's attorney. Of course, a number of actions concerned promotion and prevention, and above all recommendations and solutions that serve the youngest citizens. The Ombudsman stressed, and rightly pointed out, that last year a change in the content of the article was undertaken and implemented on his initiative. Article 58 and Article 58 of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 should therefore be amended accordingly. 107 The family and caring code concerning the agreement of the spouses, but also introducing the right of the child to be brought up by both parents. It is important to be aware that the Ombudsman is not an executive body, he is a control body, especially when we are talking about the justice system. The possibilities of the Ombudsman's initiative are limited by the borders of the Republic of Poland. The Ombudsman often benefited from the help of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, consuls, ambassadors. If a child's rights spokesperson is in the country, he tried to run a path within his jurisdiction, provided that he has the appropriate instruments. Today we are referring to the entire activity of the Ombudsman of the rights of the child. I am aware that we, Members, but also representatives of institutional actors, associations, local environments or simply private individuals, individualise this assessment depending on how a specific matter is dealt with. Previously, I presented the scope of the cases that the Ombudsman is dealing with. In 2015, it was close to 50,000. cases involving only 78 people in the budget of 11 million. With multiplicity and multiplicity of activities, this is definitely not enough cast. I will be tempted to think that criticism of the Ombudsman's work is often an assessment resulting from the ineffectiveness of the office. We are wondering what limits the efficiency of the Ombudsman's work. It is clear that we are assessing very sensitive matter, perhaps most important from a social point of view, but also insanely complex, functioning on the one hand in many areas, but also important, in view of the great migration of Poles. Grown Poles are looking for their place on earth. Unfortunately for their children this does not always mean a family elderado. The progress of civilization, which is being made before our eyes, makes life easier, but it certainly poses many risks to the most important institution, which is the family. Information on the activities of the Ombudsman is a comprehensive position which contains more than 500 pages. It raises dozens of issues, hundreds of problems, which include thousands of individual cases. Can the Ombudsman really be compensated for any harm the Polish child suffers, for any unfinished or unfinished business? The answer is obvious. The Act on the Ombudsman of the Rights of the Child conferred on him the power of warning, signalling and initiative, conferred on him the power to present to the competent public authorities, organisations and institutions assessments and conclusions aimed at effectively protecting the rights and interests of the child. The Ombudsman may also request the competent authorities to take a legislative initiative or to issue or amend other acts. Special thanks should be given to the Ombudsman for his initiative to prohibit the use of corporal penalties on the minor by those exercising parental authority and taking care of or taking care of the minor. However, what states that my club will accept the information of the child's attorney is a mission from which you perform excellently, and this mission is the empowerment of the child. I just want to add that I don't think anyone can ever beat a child's attorney like you. I know, because I have contacts with a lot of kids, that kids love their ombudsman, they have a phone call for him, they can talk to him with anything, and they do it a lot. I strongly support the spokesperson, his work, what he does. I find any criticism, although criticism can be upbuilding, absolutely hurtful and unjust. I would like to say - I am addressing you from the governing party - to increase the budget for 2017 so that many of these things that you have mentioned here can be resolved. Because a band so thin for so little money can't do that. I bow to the Office of the Ombudsman and to the Ombudsman himself for his hard work for what they have done. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u259	Thank you very much, Member. I would like to invite Mrs Barbara Chrobak, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u260	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! I listened attentively to Mr Mark Michalak's report on his activities last year, acting as an Ombudsman of the rights of the child. I must say that the way in which the Ombudsman's office is organised and his personal commitment to the protection of children's rights deserve my good judgment as a Member, but above all as a parent and grandmother. Of course, the right time to issue the final certificate will come with the expiry of the second and last term of office of the Ombudsman in this position, which will take place in August 2018. However, in returning to the report, one aspect was lacking in the substantive report on the Ombudsman's activities - data on the activities of his office in criminal matters involving minors, in which the Ombudsman, I believe, could also have a positive effect through his instrumental initiative. Mr. Spokesman, how many cases have you reported to the law enforcement authorities about the likelihood of a child crime? How many cases did your office perform on the principle of amicus curiae, a friend of the court? What have the effects of this? Did you monitor the fate of your communications? How did you take care of the children involved in criminal proceedings? What were the results? Did you, on the basis of the preparatory proceedings underway, give rise to information about the situation of children in action, e.g. control in facilities, and how have they worked? The answers to these questions are not fully reflected in your report. As you probably know, from the point of view of the citizens, your participation in the functioning of the wider justice system is essential to the extent that the protection of children's rights requires. At this point, I would like to thank Mr Sławomir Kowalski, the consul of the Republic of Poland in Oslo, for his enormous commitment to helping Polish families and children in exile. I had the pleasure of meeting your consul personally when I visited Oslo. I've spoken to families who have been affected by the tragedy of taking children away by the Norwegian authorities and who have spoken very highly about the work of your consul. I am pleased that our compatriots in Norway can count on the help of your consul, and at the same time I am very concerned about the tragedies of Polish families. An example is the family that I met, and who was taken from her 13-year-old daughter just because her parents wouldn't let her play on the computer, and she responded to it from home to her friend. The result was that the family of this friend notified the office there, which isolated her from her biological parents for almost a year, placing her in the Norwegian family. First contact after 2 months, next - once a quarter. First contact only for 15 minutes. Nearly a year away from home, the girl tried to kill herself by self-harming herself. Only the perseverance of your consul made it possible for the little girl to return home. The trauma that parents and children have experienced is indescribable. The girl is still in the care of psychologists. Please note that there is only enough bruising caused by the fall of the child to take the child away from the parents. There are many cases like this, and not only in Norway. And here I ask you to cooperate actively with the consulates of the Republic of Poland in the protection of Polish children. Ladies and gentlemen, while aware of the fact that a number of competences impose a great deal of responsibilities on the Ombudsman's office, the number of key tasks from care through education, rehabilitation to the fight against exclusion and poverty incriminates a great deal of activity, it is necessary to assess positively the activities of the Ombudsman and, on behalf of the Kukiz club15, I recommend that the report on the activities of the ombudsman Mark Michalak be adopted. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u261	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Elizabeth Stępień, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u262	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! Invited guests! I am very sorry, I am shocked by what I heard from Mr Zbigniew Dolata. I can't find the right words for how you can say so many slanders and then go out in English. I wonder what's more important - today's game or the children we're talking about here today. That's the beginning. On the other hand, with regard to the content and scope itself, and consequently the detailed report, I would like to say that from my point of view it is impressive. Why? Because every example, every suggestion, every fact is confirmed by an example - an example of life taken. And here I would also like to stress what is particularly important to me, not just because of my interests, I would like it to sound here from this speaker. Namely, it is a protest by the Ombudsman of the rights of the child concerning the possible liquidation of the windows of life, which I think is right, given the well-being of the children, and the statement by the Ombudsman of the rights of the child on the protection of the rights of the unborn child. And it's not about a little haunted religious-moral dispute about protecting the conceived life, it's about the right fight with mothers poisoning the fetuses of alcohol, nicotine, and other drugs that make babies born with horrible babies, I've really seen with the terrible FAS syndrome. The Ombudsman's speech on the prolonged stays of children in psychiatric hospitals without indications of hospitalisation, and they are actually there because of foster care problems. Compliance with the rights of children placed in the foster care system, especially in the light of recent appalling media reports on the cruelty and lack of real supervision of foster parents. Statement by the Ombudsman of the rights of the child on the taking away of children from parents because of material poverty, protest against the treatment of poverty as a sufficient, independent indication of the limitation or deprivation of parental rights. I'll stay here, Mr. Spokesperson, because I'd like to ask you a question. How many children have really been picked up because of poverty? Another case - minor foreigners residing in the territory of the Republic of Poland. This is extremely up-to-date because of the growing refugee problem. The problem of minor mothers in nursing and rehabilitation facilities. It may turn out to be such a small humanitarian-legal scandal. Children should be with their mother, absolutely, but most often they are received. The problem of under-care of minors in youth education centres or youth sociotherapy centres and other rehabilitation centres - this problem has recently been addressed by a number of statements by the Ministry of National Education and the Ministry of Justice in the media. In July 2013, the Ombudsman of the Rights of the Child and the Ombudsman of the National Prevention Mechanism challenged the Constitutional Tribunal with regard to the provisions of the Regulation of the Minister of Justice concerning separate housing in juvenile correction facilities and shelters. The case at the Constitutional Court hasn't entered the stand until today. Statement by the Ombudsman on child rights about starving children in Poland - shocking - and on the government's programme of feeding children. The Ombudsman's statement on the fight against hate speech. Statement by the Ombudsman on the standards of interrogation of minors in criminal proceedings. The presence of a child's spokesperson on peer violence - a very important problem and a sad one. Statement by the Ombudsman on the effects of parental labour emigration, the Euro-Earth issue that we are so often talking about. The statement by the Ombudsman on the verification of the professional qualifications of teachers working in care institutions, the non-punishment of violence against minors, I would like to point out here. In such an extensive matter, it is difficult for me to refer to the report differently, which is why I wanted to stress so much the important things that you have done for children. They're absolutely necessary. Furthermore, the institutions that work for children or NGOs - all stress the ease of access to the Ombudsman - stress that they were never alone with their problem. I don't know where Mr. Dolata got these examples, unfortunately, but the reality is different, or maybe the steth, because I didn't really hear of any case of the Ombudsman's failure to act. To conclude, I would like to address the issue of annexes to the material. Namely, I leave such a suggestion to your Ombudsman to consider RPD teams. Education and upbringing and family and minor matters, which from the statutory delegation monitor the respect of children's rights to care, decent social conditions, the granting of social benefits - this is information on page 123 - and prevention of exploitation. Isn't this an excellent legal and even missionary delegation to create the rights of the child monitoring, e.g. in cooperation with the National Prevention Mechanism, the Ombudsman? How, for what and for whom, is 500+ spent? What part of this benefit is consumed for the real needs of adults, excluding children - beneficiaries of this benefit? What is the scale of the pathology of extortion of this benefit, e.g. Avalanche requests by loving parents to regain their rights to abandoned children in order to obtain benefits? Annex 10 to the report within the personal composition of the Social Advisory Board of the Ombudsman lists a number of well-known and competent members of the Board, such as: representatives of pedagogy and education - e.g. Professor Konopczyński or juvenile justice - Judge Rękas, while the Council lacks a fully professional adviser in the field of rehabilitation practice and the functioning of isolation facilities for minors of the Ministry of Justice, and this is an area where the rights of minors are particularly vulnerable. That's where I'd suggest you include someone like that. I may have missed it, but I have not been particularly impressed by the system, not by the campaigning approach of the spokesperson on matters: children and boosters, access to drugs, steroids, dietary supplements; integration of local and horizontal and government and non-governmental programmes against violence against children and peer violence. All media campaigns in the above mentioned period. the scope is poorly anchored in public awareness, especially in small towns and villages. Here, one poster or a pair of stickers isn't enough to break through, and advertising spots are ignored. Never too much prevention, awareness raising and training of interventions in this area. I would also like to add such suggestions on education. Evaluation of children, or feedback on the child's progress. The basis for teaching is efficient communication, student-teacher relations, teacher-student relationships. It's not as important the methods as the results, the skills that go into competence. The evaluation should be a motivator, and whether it's a six or a sun or five stars, it will mean a result for the child of his work, but it must bear a specific comment in which the child gets information about what he already can and what he's going to work on. This isn't in school, though it's supposed to be. There is much talk about evaluating the valuer, the shaper, but it is not required - and it should, even as a criterion for assessing the teacher - and the child has the right to a clear, reliable assessment of his skills, and he has the right to be taught how to learn. No one at school - occasionally and only in special ones - examines at the outset how they best absorb knowledge, whether they are visualists, kinetics, or auditors. The child also has the right to learn under the right conditions for him, i.e. the basis, teaching resources, tools, equipment, qualified specialists. Where the child will be educated, it does not decide the child's own preferences, skills, but it is decided by parents who do not accept him as he is, but they still see him as they want to see him. I mean special schools, their specialized conditions and specialized staff, aids, equipment, space-time created only for such children, so that they can learn in peaceful, accepted conditions - such knowledge is gathered in the topic - because of their disability. Teaching children in mass schools with qualifications for special education discourages pupils. It doesn't teach, it's stressful. So far, there is no basis for this. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Pre-school curriculum education. Although the project was made public in February and the comments of the directors were received by the MEN, to this day silence on this subject. I will end with sentiment: Whoever has never been a child cannot become an adult. These are Charlie Chaplin's words. A modern report on the activities of the Ombudsman for 2015 is welcomed, along with comments on the state of the child's rights, and I, as a Modern Member, wish you further success. I believe that the report is getting stronger every year. It just shows how you're growing, how your strength is growing, and it translates into the material you want to share with us. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u263	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Jarubas has submitted his position to the minutes. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, the Free and Solidarnia Members' Circle, will speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u264	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! After hearing about the activities of the Ombudsman for the year 2015, together with comments on the state of compliance with the rights of the child, the Free and Solidarnia Circle was puzzled. We wonder if this is a description of the situation of children in our country, Poland. The information is correctly written and well edited, and that's probably all we can say positive about this document. The content describes mainly positive phenomena, as if there were no pathology or bad actions concerning children, and even if something was already detected there by the control of NIK, the results of these findings were immediately implemented and their implementation was monitored until the negative phenomenon was completely eliminated. It's such a nice laurel and self-esteem. It is hardly surprising to the Ombudsman of the rights of the child, who himself evaluates his work and creates his image, only that, as I recall, in 2015 children were placed in foster families because of the poverty of their parents in Poland. The media widely reported the pathologies and tragic fates of children in foster homes, kindergartens or crèches. In the media, you responded on the basis of a fireman, reacted to a single incident, noticing the problem as a phenomenon, because, as Marek Michalak said after a 16-year-old man from Suwałk committed suicide when he learned that he would be taken away from his mother and would go to an educational institution, people failed, not regulations. Fortunately, this year, the High House adopted a law banning the taking of children because of their parents' poverty. But they didn't have the luck of the children from Daliowa in Podkarpacie who lost their mom in the fire. The District Court in Krosno took four orphaned children from their grandparents and sentenced them to life in foster homes. The children have lost their last loved ones because they are educationally inefficient, according to forensic experts. And a case from the last few days. If I hear that the child's life or health may be at risk, it is an emergency and you have to react quickly," said the Ombudsman and informed the Minister of Health and the Prosecutor General, because the bodies appointed should carry out their activities accordingly. The Ombudsman took his stand and felt that he had fulfilled his role in this matter, only bypassed the moral dimension of this event, as I mentioned in another speech. The departure of nurses from sick children's beds - this is not even done at war. This may be in line with applicable law, but it is not in line with ethical and moral standards. In conclusion, I will say once again that the information presented seems to be well written, shows that the formal requirements are fulfilled, and all the actions of the Ombudsman and the said institutions are lawful, but especially in the interests of the child, it is impossible to apply the law, disregarding the elementary human feelings. It may therefore be advisable to change the philosophy of fulfilling the role of the Ombudsman and to adopt the primacy of the child's good over the formal conformity of the institutions' duties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u265	Thank you very much, Member. We have a list of Members of the Committee for Questions. Would any of you like to sign up? If not, I close the list of Members. The first question will be asked by Mr Sławomir Piechota, the Civic Platform Club. Question time - 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u266	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Mr. Spokesman! Mr. Spokesman, if you don't mind, I would like to address to you the words of a prominent Wrocław pastor who often says, "Don't be afraid when you have enemies, because it might mean that you're doing something important and that many people are getting into a parade, and that's why he's so annoyed. This is because this annoyance is marked by the vastness of the Ombudsman's report, the fact that the Ombudsman does so much. It's amazing that some people find it annoying. I think it's the 50,000. the issues that have been brought to your Ombudsman last year are the best measure of trust and the need for such a way of exercising this office. That's four times more than when you started. If what Marek Michalak is doing as a spokesperson for the rights of the child was not important, then who would turn to the Ombudsman for help, then why would he write there, it would be one of many offices. It is amazing, however, because it can be understood in simple journalists, but not to know in the Parliament what the duties of a spokesman are? To have a grudge against the Ombudsman, that many people in various offices, institutions in Poland do not fully understand, do not feel, do not fully try, it is as if now the spokesperson of the rights of the child blamed for all the harm that happens to Polish children. It's really easy to wash our hands, it's like we're gonna throw off our responsibilities and say, "He owes everything to the spokesperson." In this context, I would like to ask your Ombudsman how it is possible to deal with such an avalanche of cases, because most of those cases that reach the Ombudsman are those in the category of hopeless, i.e. that people have exhausted all possible means before, [[♪ The bell ♪]] They turned to all the institutions. And so I would like to ask the Ombudsman: How much of your work you work with non-governmental organisations, how much of this cooperation is permanent, organized, i.e. casual, inconspicuous, not cooperation on individual matters?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u267	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u268	As much as you have a budget, so that the experts from these NGOs don't pay enough...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u269	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u270	...I will only add this, your marshal, how much to cover the costs of their functioning, because many emphasize that in these mature democracies it is the experts from NGOs who are priceless partners of public institutions. Thank you again, Mr. Spokesman, for what he does and how he does. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u271	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u272	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! Ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, Gentlemen! By taking up his duties, the Ombudsman of the rights of the child solemnly vows to uphold the rights of the child, following the rules of law, the welfare of the child and the welfare of the family, and the duties entrusted to him impartially, with the utmost diligence and diligence. Art. 2th Act states that a child within the meaning of this Act is every human being from conception to attainment of adulthood. We know that such provisions are also contained in the Convention for the Protection of the Rights of the Child and - earlier - the Declaration of the Rights of the Child. My doubts are that, on the basis of the report and following - perhaps not very regularly, but, however, following - the activities of the Ombudsman, I do not have the impression that the Ombudsman is active in the area of protection of the right to life and protection of children burdened with defects during the prenatal period. I don't know, and I didn't find any information that the Ombudsman would take action to verify the validity of some doctors' recognition of Down syndrome's suspicion as a prerequisite for the legality of abortion. I also have doubts as to whether the Ombudsman was speaking and thus fulfilling the obligations imposed by the Act, during the public debate on the Act on the Treatment of Infertility, in particular the issue of the destruction of unfulfilled quality expectations of human embryos. I have also found a statement from your Ombudsman that he does not speak on such matters because of their political nature. I do not agree with this position, it is a strictly legal issue. The Constitution grants the right to life and the Constitutional Tribunal stated in its 1997 ruling, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that this protection also covers the prenatal period. I would ask you to respond to these questions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u273	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Urszula Augustyn. I don't see a Member. I invite Mrs Alicia Chybicka, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u274	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! There have been a lot of words here today - as I said before - that are highly hurtful and I have a question for the rapporteur concerning the meeting of the Parliamentary Committee. I have read the committee's report thoroughly, and I have not had the privilege of participating in this work. There were many positive words, but in your performance here there was actually only criticism and signaling that someone there said something positive. Could you bring up the positive points that were mentioned at the Parliamentary Committee meeting? The second point I would like to mention concerns fantastic contacts between the Ombudsman and other ombudsmen of the rights of the child in Europe and in the world. Sometimes I wonder if you are sleeping at all, because when I follow your activities on social media, you are in one place in the morning in Poland, in the afternoon - in the other, and in the evening you end up in a country where you often try to implement our Polish rights to the laws of these countries and vice versa. And I would like to ask you: What is the position of the Polish Ombudsman and our perception of the Convention on the Rights of the Child? Once again, I would like to congratulate the team sitting here and the spokesman for this hard work for children. I can say - and it's been a little private - that I've ever asked the Office of the Ombudsman as head of the institution, currently Cape Hope, for any help for the children fighting for their lives, has never remained indifferent, and I can't imagine, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that he remained indifferent to any question or request for help from the child. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u275	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Józef Szczurek-Żelazko, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u276	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! The Act on the Ombudsman of the Rights of the Child upholds the rights of the child as defined in the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, the Convention on the Rights of the Child. The right to life and health is a priority task, but it is a very neglected and highly objectionable area. No access to health services, e.g. dental, rehabilitation or school medicine shows how much work there is to be done here. Therefore, I have a question: have you applied for systemic solutions in this regard? Because single interventions don't change the rules and the fact that they exist. Were these system solutions... Was there a request sent to specific institutions to ensure once and for all this basic right of the child, the right to health services, which have been implemented differently in Poland so far? Were you interested in how your individual proposals were also implemented? According to the report, you performed, among others. to the chief health inspector on preventive vaccination of children, you asked about the number of infectious diseases specialists and the hospital base, hospital units in Poland. According to the information provided in the report, the Chief Sanitary Inspector replied that there was no such data. I ask: What then, what did you do with this information, because there is no word in the report? It is also no secret that in Polish hospitals, especially in paediatric wards, there are no conditions for the stay of a carer, a parent and a child. I know that the Ombudsman's office has been asked to provide information in this regard. Next question: What was the effect of these actions? Because I also have information from the hospital directors, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that those who informed that this possibility was possible received feedback on how parents' care costs should be calculated in hospital wards. In view of the above, such a question at the end: Did you actually make proposals for system solutions that would actually ensure...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u277	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u278	...realization of the rights of the child? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u279	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Anna Nemś, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u280	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! I'll join the voices of those who appear before me. I'm shocked to hear from a representative of the PiS. In my opinion, in the case of the child's welfare, his problems are the last place to be in politics. Any indoctrination in this area in my view is simply unacceptable. Every case you deal with is individual, requires great sensitivity, and in my opinion, this sensitivity of you and your team is enormous. I would like to say, without getting into the details, that all my experience with your interventions in the parliamentary office has always shown you the reaction to the situation and blaming the Ombudsman for all the misfortunes that are in the world is simply absurd. I wanted to thank you, to say that this comprehensive report is important to us, and everyone would find answers to many questions if they were serious. I just wanted to ask you one little thing. I'm talking about the baby phone. He's running from Monday to Friday from 8.15 to 20, I think. Do you think... I mean, at least my feeling is that he should be working all week in these hours. Is it necessary or not, or have you had any thought in this area? Because while I'm in different places, I'd like to see this phone number so that it's more visible, so everyone knows: it's a spokesperson. Of course, everyone knows you're here, but I'd like that phone number. Somewhere he'd look into the eyes of all the kids, parents, anyone, so that he'd be even more visible. That's my point. I thank you very much for your work and all your employees. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u281	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u282	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! High Izbo! There are known cases of Jugendamt's actions against children from mixed families in Germany. For the very fact that one parent uses Polish language in conversations with a child, you can lose a child, just Jugendamt picks up this child. Perhaps it should be recalled here that this organization was still established during Hitler's reign. Anyway, I'd like to ask if there's any way to help. Because this is happening in another country, about another legal system, or if you've had contact with consuls, for example. In cases like this? What are attempts to solve such problems? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u283	Thank you very much, Member. The last question is asked by Elizabeth Stępień, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u284	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! I would like to ask the question again from this speaker: How many children have been taken away from their parents because of poverty? Second question: Are children's rights properly protected in Poland? By the way, for the sake of assessing the Ombudsman's work alone, I would add that the Ombudsman is not an executive, he is just a person or institution who can signal, inform or initiate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u285	Thank you very much, Member. That's where we've exhausted the list of speakers. I would like to ask Mr. Mark Michalak's child's attorney to take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u286	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I listened very carefully to all these comments - and the positive ones, and the questionable actions - which were made here, because just like every year, I cared very much about doing a good job - I made a promise here - and also to respond to the demands of parliamentarians when it comes to annual information. I must say that I am more pleased to listen to critical comments about extensive information than to those about information that is weak, short and lacking. I think that this year we have succeeded - I say to us, together, because I am here with my colleagues, representatives of the office - to fill in, to take into account a number of comments from last year and earlier years, because they did not appear anymore. I think this information contains a lot of things that are less important to some people, but they can be very important to others. With the rights of the child - and with children in general, with the attitude towards children - it is so that the problems of children are important. For a little baby and that wobbly tooth is important, and that someone looked the wrong way, and that they didn't get the bear, even though they promised them earlier. It would be useful to allow us to take our children, their problems seriously and take matters with due diligence, which, I think, is happening. I would like to protest against setting up a spokesman in any political environment. These words were said here today. A state that has been observing my work at the Ombudsman's office since the beginning, you know that I am absolutely apolitical in my actions and that no environment is able to impose anything, command anything or say that it is only this way. The spokesman came here apolitical and keeps this apoliticality. I would very much like to stress this, because it is, I think, important for this office - an office which, unfortunately, every once in a while politicians want to use for their, not always good, goals. The kids are, they should be out of politics. Their parents are from different areas, and each of them should receive the same assistance, at the same level and equally guaranteed, of the highest quality. We try hard to do this during the day-to-day work of the Ombudsman's Office, which, as you can see, we conduct on different levels, but I report primarily on the basis of these five rights set out in the Ombudsperson's Act. There have been many questions here about poverty and the taking away of children because of poverty. Maybe it would be worth saying once clearly and all that not only did the Ombudsman not find such a case, not only did the Supreme Audit Chamber not find such a case last year, examining more than 300 cases, but also the ministerial Justice Institute, which issued a special report - he was made public this year, just last month - he clearly pointed out that this is not the phenomenon that is taking place in our country. It was not, it is not, and, I hope, thanks to those regulations which have been so far, and those which have recently entered into force, will not take place. It is worth mentioning that it is not to scare the Polish family of services, because they are to help the family, and to help them. And these 61 cases - because this was also said several times, and in this part of the club, and in this summary part - was explained by the Institute of Justice. Each of these cases has been examined by the Ombudsman of the rights of the child. Mostly it was a statistical error of the courts: they put something in the wrong box. But it's not me to judge. It's worth talking about the facts, the relationship. I'm not familiar with these cases. I do not rule out, perhaps somewhere such a case took place, but the media, quoted - absolutely not and the ones checked in my office neither. As far as international matters are concerned, because here the issue of Norway was raised and Mrs Jugendamt and Germany raised the issue, it was only last year that I intervened in international cases 89 times: 29 in the UK, 15 in Germany, 8 in Norway, less in Sweden, the Netherlands, Spain, Belgium. As it has been said, the Member has also pointed out, there is limited scope for action outside our country... Because the spokesperson has opportunities, and it's a lot of opportunities. Here even, answering the question of what the position of the Polish spokesman looks like compared to its counterparts in other countries, we can say with pride: most strongly, no country in the world has gone this far. The Polish Act on the Ombudsman of the Rights of the Child is presented today, recommended by the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child to other countries - those who are to appoint the Ombudsman as a model, and those who wish to strengthen the Ombudsman's institution, also as a model. It is precisely on our model that Romania is now working, which has made an invitation to assist with parliamentary work. But in fact, these possibilities are limited. In those countries where the Ombudsman institutions are, I try through my counterparts and e.g. I met with a big wall when it comes to Norway because my friend from Norway said to me: "But I can't check an individual case because I was not given such competence, you in Poland can, I can't. So I've already received some possibility of action. In this situation only the Polish consular post of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs remains. It's just that. This is the only way I can go - ask the consul, claim, press him to take action. As far as Germany is concerned, there's no ombudsman. In many situations concerning the Jugendamts, we have taken action. We can't check it on the spot, so I can't, I can't confirm whether it was justified - perhaps in Poland it would also be like this - the reaction of the services. But two years ago, at the invitation of Polish consuls, I ran over several landlords, met with parliamentary petition committees - this is a place that has any influence on the services that have been mentioned here - we have improved contact and from what I hear from the consuls, it works, that is, it is easier to get information. So that's all you could do. I don't stop... If I can help anywhere and wherever the authority of the Polish spokesperson will influence to better secure the children, then I stand ready. As for England, we organized a meeting of all consuls, even the English services came to Poland to see how our services work, so that they feel that they do not have to do everything at home, to deal with the affairs of Polish citizens, that we are also a civilized country and our courts and our social workers, our court curators do not sleep, act and depend on them. And it happened, here too, some things have been fixed up, and I can see it even after the effectiveness of the action when I ask for help. This was also the case: a specific understanding of the rights of the child. I mean, a kid is a kid, he's a man, he has rights, they belong to him, whether he's polite or rude, whether he goes to school, whether he's in MOW, whether he's subordinated or not. The role of the spokesperson is to claim everyone. If there are two children, one is the victim, the other is the perpetrator, they're still, they're still the children. The Ombudsman's role is to treat them individually and take action. Therefore, the obsession with MOWs is absolutely rejected, this is a false conclusion drawn from the reading of the information I have submitted to you. On the contrary, I think that's a great compliment. If my education team is extremely stubborn about children who have been separated from their parents, who are often left to themselves, who cry and suffer somewhere secretly, it is probably the right thing to do, so it should be. It was also a question of whether we are initiating proceedings and whether they are being monitored. Yeah, if we're initiating, we're monitoring. I'm not gonna get the numbers out of my head right now, but wherever we have information about a possible crime, we're taking it to the D.A.'s office. This is the standard, the key that works in the office. The monitoring of these matters and the taking of action, such as complementary monitoring, because this is also what the Member has asked, is taking place. Yeah, yeah. That's when the teams work together. However, it should be noted that in criminal matters the Ombudsman has no powers, the Ombudsman has powers in civil matters, especially with emphasis on family matters. So I can ask in criminal matters, I can initiate, but there it is already living its own life. A court friend's clause doesn't include a spokesperson, these are other institutions, so I can't use it. I've already answered the question about cooperation, too. And with ambassadors, and with consuls we cooperate not only in interventions, in interventions as if ad hoc, but also in the promotion of the Polish patent on the rights of the child, in promotion through Janusz Korczak, through a series of actions. And let me remind you that the Convention on the Rights of the Child is a Polish patent, it was born here, from our country was proposed and that today almost all - because only one country has yet to ratify it - countries in the world implement it into their legal order, it came from us. We have every right to be proud. But nobility obliges, so you must be ready to assist in providing information. [[Have you ever filed a notice to the D.A. about...]] A felony. [[...the suspicion of committing a crime.]] Of course, of course, a lot of things. [[About Norway...]] As for cases involving suspicion of a crime, it's different. Madam, I invite you to the next meeting, I am already providing detailed information in this regard. There was a question or charge here that the spokesperson on the situation at the Children's Health Center wrote to the Minister of Health, for information from the Attorney General, and that's it. What makes you say that? It's absolutely unauthorized. The Ombudsman not only wrote, but immediately met with the Minister of Health and explained the matter very thoroughly. The Ombudsman in relation to this situation has been in contact with the staff of the Children's Health Center at all times. The Ombudsman sent his control before he spoke to the Minister of Health to confirm whether there could actually be a risk of life and health for children. It was precisely the result of this inspection that the Minister spoke to and informed the Attorney General. I will also remind you that not elsewhere, but when there was a debate about the Children's Health Center, there was no shortage of the voice of a child's spokesperson who claimed children, not adults, did not express any political position, did not enter into any conflict between adults - he claimed children, life and health of the youngest who should not be harmed in this situation. There was also an opinion that this information on the state of child rights lacks critical votes. Madame, please follow up on the comments on the state of compliance with the rights of the child. There are about 200 critical votes - what needs to be changed in Poland, which is not left done and used by children, how to make their lives better. What about the general speeches? After all, these are the Ombudsman's requests for change, showing that something isn't working properly. I think that most of this information can be said to be a very critical document, but we also show what has worked out, what is worth noticing - that we are not standing in a place where someone is listening to someone, that people can work together. It's very important. I think it is also important for employees of resorts, institutions, local governments, who meet with the spokesman not only when he demands something and draws attention, but also when he notes that someone has done an important job, a lot of this work. This is also important for the staff of the Ombudsman's Office. These people work more than ordinary officials on a daily basis so that Polish children can live better. Several speeches raised the subject of the right to life, including situations concerning post-factum intervention or prevention, I do not know, because it was not clarified when it came to unborn children. I think that there are a lot of such facts and examples of preventive actions in this information, but also evidence that the Ombudsman took action when there was at least a threat of crime. I will also remind you that the law is the High Chamber. The Ombudsman shall be reprimanded within the framework of the legislative, constitutional and legislative powers which the High House will adopt. Looking at it more broadly, because, I think, this is a very important topic that appeared in the context of a completely unlawful complaint - all the actions described on these over 500 pages are taken for the benefit of children, to prevent their harm, to cause a better situation for children in Poland, to make parents feel safer so that they can make decisions protecting their child, also future ones, so that they can feel, know that the rights of the child in our reality have the right rank, are guaranteed at the right level. Therefore, please consider all these activities as preventive measures, preventing and fulfilling the provisions of the Article. 2th Ombudsperson of Children's Rights Act. I abstract from those that specifically concerned whether hormonal agents or infection, contamination during pregnancy or social security, because it is also very important that this mom or dad are together after the baby is born, because the baby still needs support and help. And you will admit that no one else, only the spokesperson for the rights of the child in a number of such actions has asked for this very clearly and very strongly. Mr Sławomir Piechota asked how we deal with this avalanche of cases - there are actually a lot of them - and whether we are working with non-governmental organisations. If it were not for NGOs, their support and cooperation, it would probably not have been possible to repair many children's harm - here I am facing the whole environment. And if we're going to talk about the environment, it's my environment, the environment of NGOs -- that's where the current spokesperson for the rights of the child came out, and it's the environment that's most identified. These are NGOs, these are those who don't have to, and want, who often at their own private time, most often without financial gratification, helping another person because they think it's so good that it's the right thing to do, because that's the decency of those people who work in NGOs. I bow before them, but I also want to say clearly here: we work together, we work closely, and they know that the Office of the Ombudsman is also their place, this is the place where they can always come. Today, the foster parenting coalition was training here before tomorrow's foster parenting convention. These are people who also kind of use what the spokesperson has. As far as the budget is concerned, they usually do it for free, most of them, I'll make it clear. The whole list of my social advisors is a list of people who work for free. The Family Law Codification Commission are people who work for free. Experts from NGOs who support the Ombudsman often do not take money for it either. The Ombudsman's budget is not large - I will also remind you - compared to other budgets, and children are 1/3 of the population of our country. I wouldn't want to miss anything. There haven't been as many questions as in previous years, but I wouldn't want to miss any. If something like this happens to me somewhere, I'd be happy to answer it at a direct meeting or in writing, if that's all you want. To the questions about poverty, the taking of children, I think, I clearly outlined the answer. I would like to hear a voice on this matter here and that we no longer add to this situations that we do not have. We have other problems, we have 2,000. Homeless kids, we have $1,000. children placed in institutional custody in breach of the law, which infringes their rights. These are specific things. These are the things to take care of. And we need to work together here. It is important that we depoliticize and cooperate on this subject. Because, as I look at it, I'll tell you, there's this personal observation -- your marshal will allow for a digression -- that those Members who have visited my office, who are writing proposals to me, have this knowledge, as if we are on the same page, and no one can say that there is a lack of openness from the Ombudsman on the part of the rights of the child. I will be very happy to meet each individual parliamentarians, very happy to consider each of the topics discussed, because it works both ways, it works for Polish children. And I'm inviting you to do that, too. And so maybe for the sake of conclusion - Mrs Stępień asked whether children's rights are properly protected in Poland - I say that I think that we have a better and better law, it is becoming more modern. If others are watching us and trying to implement it in their own place, it's also a sign of something. But it's not so good that it can't get any better. This series, especially those at the end of the comments made, very critical, if we had just read it, we could have had such a feeling that it was hopeless. But it's not, which is why I'm presenting these positive remarks here. It's changing. We also inherited something 20 years ago, and we need to move forward, try to make things better. I think it's better, but not so you can say it's all secure. We should be absolutely ready for cooperation here - institutions, individual ministries, local governments with non-governmental organisations and, of course, with Parliament. The Ombudsman is a servant's office, so he listens to voices, intervenes. Sometimes he's gonna step on somebody's fingertips, most often he's gonna step on a print, but that's also the role of the spokesperson, and it's to make him effective. And I think that this effectiveness is something that no one can take away from our office because it shows concrete everyday facts from everyday work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Marshal Marek Kuchciński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u287	Thank you, Minister. Mr Kazimierz Moskal will speak on behalf of the committee at the moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u288	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of these many questions, one question was addressed to me by Professor Chybick. The professor asked me to approximate the positive statements that took place at the committee meeting. I tried, ladies and gentlemen, to tell you who was speaking, but I didn't count the people taking him. There's a report, it's 30 pages. I didn't want to quote it, read it. On the other hand, there have been positive voices from Mrs Kochan, Mrs Fabisiak and Mrs Gapińska. As for the statements of these messengers, I will only quote a passage showing what they were more or less. They had that right, they praised, and it's a good thing they praised you, your spokesperson. But there were other voices, voices expressing doubts. There was some criticism, some comments. But this is a natural thing. Nor can we think that if a critical voice appears, we violate holiness. Nobody's a saint here. On the other hand, we know that a child is the most important thing for all of us. If we see that all matters are dealt with, there are no problems, then we should say here that we have nothing to do. But the critical voices that appeared at the committee meeting were related to certain specific things cited that affect children. And that's why I talked so much about it in general. However, I will quote a passage from Mrs Gapińska's statement, as it was said, and the statements made by Mrs Kochan or Mrs Fabisiak were similar. I quote: Thank you, Mr President. The problem is that, as I listen to the questions of your Members, my previous speakers, I have the overwhelming impression that it is not our intention to appreciate work, to understand what is written in the report, but to, in spite of this large work, to negatively assess the work of the Ombudsman. And that's what those ladies said. And whether it is Mr. Skutecki, whether it is Mr. Uściński, or it is many other people and representatives of the institutions I was talking about, not that they attacked your spokesperson, but that they presented some problems that are to be solved before us. And this is how I'm going to say: I didn't try to present much here either, and I discussed it very generally. If you wish me or any other country, I can read it, but I don't think that's the point. This is a problem for all of us, a child is the greatest value for all of us and I think even if critical words appear Whether it's with your spokesperson or with any other person who's somehow responsible for keeping the children in the best place, I don't think we should blame anyone. Let us also respect the critical voices of others - this is my appeal, this is the final vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u289	Thank you, sir. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u290	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I was privileged to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party. I would like to begin by quoting from Mr. Mark Michalak's letter of child's rights, prepared on the occasion of a child's day; it was so recently, since June 1st. The Ombudsman reminded Janusz Korczak that there are no children - there are people who need to be treated equally with adults, although of course taking into account their different scale of concepts, another source of experience. It's so simple and difficult at the same time. It's hard to agree with those words. This difficult spokesperson is trying to be successful. Numerous meetings with children and young people, hundreds of letters filled with emotions in which authors express sadness for lack of love, respect, understanding... That's over 50,000. intervention per year - that's a lot. We had the opportunity to read over half a thousand pages of the report on the activities of the Ombudsman. It is clearly an institution that is needed and committed. Just because the number of intervention of the Ombudsman grows from year to year does not mean that children are getting worse in Poland. This is primarily the result of the institution's increasing recognition and confidence in it, and this is the result of hard work. At this point, it is also important to appreciate not only interventions, but also numerous campaigns and social actions aimed at education, building awareness of the parent and the child as regards the rights of the child. Lions of cases on the basis of the report are those concerning the right to raise in the family. But it's not just interventions that need to be appreciated. The huge involvement of nearly 300 patrons of major socio-cultural events, several dozen seminars and conferences, finally participating in research that shape somewhat public opinion, is a kind of added value of the Ombudsman's position. These are educational activities, but also in a sense preventive, supported by documents such as. The Convention on the Rights of the Child is extremely important for the future of Polish citizens. Changing the thread a little bit - every such activity also requires financial resources. The Club of the Polish People's Party looks to the future with concern about this subject, remembering that already a few years ago PiS had some reservations about the activities of the Ombudsman of the rights of the child, and on the Internet today you can also find comments from right-wing publicists about the unjustified existence of the function of the Ombudsman of the rights of the child. The question arises: Do the current government not want to limit the financial expenditure on the activities of the Ombudsman? The question is so well founded that in February this year the PiS-owska majority led to a reduction in the budget for the Ombudsman's activities. The child is also a citizen, of course, but also has an ombudsman - an institution. I hope there's no such thing as a plan. If they do, they should meet with the greatest opposition possible. Finally, I would like to quote one more point from the recently written letter by the Ombudsman of the rights of the child. Well, the Ombudsman rightly notes and urges adults to listen more closely to their children. This is the most valuable gift we can give our children," he says. Today, I would like to make a similar appeal to the rulers: in a rush of all actions, even tiredness, less desire or lack of it, find the time and strength to listen carefully to the Ombudsman of the rights of the child. His observations, suggestions, advice and actions are very important. Remember, children are the future of our homeland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u291	I state that the Sejm has been informed about the activities of the Ombudsman for the year 2015, together with comments on the state of compliance with the rights of the child. I would like to inform you that the Committee on Public Finance has submitted a report on the government draft law amending the Customs Law Act and some other laws. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. I propose that in the discussion on this item, the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the report of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration on the implementation in 2015 of the Law of 24 March 1920 on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners (print No 391), together with the position of the Board of Administration and Home Affairs (print No 505). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Mr. Tomasz Zdzikot to present a report.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u292	Dear Marshal, High Seym! In accordance with the obligation under Article. 4 of the Law of 24 March 1920 on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners, I present to you the report of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration on the implementation of the Law in 2015. Ladies and gentlemen, real estate is one of the main elements of national wealth, and therefore any instrument relating to the regulation of their acquisition by foreigners is one of the essential instruments to ensure the security of the state. Changing external circumstances caused by, among others, the membership of Poland in the European Union and the associated freedom of movement of persons and capital, make it equally important, in addition to permits, to register property acquired by foreigners, shares or shares in companies owned by real estate in Poland. The report analyses this issue and presents the scale of the real estate acquired in 2015 and shares and shares in companies owned or owned by perpetual property users in Poland, both with permission and when authorisation is not required. The data contained in the report also reflect the number of authorisations issued by the Minister in 2015. At this point I would like to stress - it is indeed extremely important, it was also the subject of a long discussion at the meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs - that the registers kept by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration are created only on the basis of the extracts of notarial acts by virtue of which foreigners acquired real estate, and the final copies of judgments by which the acquisition of real estate by foreigners took place, as well as copies of the provisions on registration of entrepreneurs of the National Court Register concerning the acquisition or entry of shares in companies holding real estate in Poland by foreigners. The completeness of the records kept by the Minister shall be subject to the reliable transmission of the documents to the Minister by the notaries and courts. The acquisition of real estate by foreigners requires, in principle, the permission of the Minister responsible for Home Affairs. Foreigners are also obliged to obtain permission to acquire or acquire shares or shares in a company, as well as any other activity concerning shares or shares of a trading company established in Poland owned by it or a perpetual user of real estate in the territory of Poland. The provisions of the Act are adapted to the requirements of European law, in particular the freedoms of movement of persons and capital for citizens and entrepreneurs of States Parties to the Agreement on the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation. 2015 was the last full reporting year in which such entities had to obtain authorisations for the acquisition of agricultural and forestry property. From 1 May 2016, they may acquire real estate on the same terms as Polish citizens. As in previous years, there is a very small number of permits issued for the acquisition or acquisition of shares in companies owned or used by perpetual property located in Poland, because capital trading for entities originating in the EEA and the Swiss Confederation does not require authorisation. In accordance with the law on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners, in 2015 the Home Affairs Minister issued 341 permits for the acquisition of land with a total area of 460,63 ha, including 162 permits for the acquisition of agricultural and forestry real estate with a total area of 446,05 ha, 68 permits for the acquisition of commercial and residential premises with a total area of 4578,89 m2 and one permit to acquire shares in a real estate company in Poland with an area of 6.49 ha. The permits concerned mostly properties located in Mazowieckie, Zachodniopomorskie and Warmińsko-Mazurskie voivodships. The authorisation holders were dominated by entities representing the nationality or capital of Ukraine and Belarus. In 2015, the Home Minister issued 40 decisions refusing foreign nationals to grant permission to acquire land and premises. Negative decisions were issued, among others. because of the foreigner's failure to establish permanent ties with Poland or because of the lack of compliance with statutory conditions for the issue of the permit. In 13 cases, the reason for the refusal was the opposition of the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development. Since the authorisation is valid for a period of 2 years from its date of issue and only the parties to the transaction depend on the conclusion of the contract, the data on the number of authorisations for the calendar year concerned do not correspond to the data on the basis of the transaction authorisations. In addition, not every permit means the acquisition of property by a foreigner, because the parties may waive the conclusion of the contract. Data collected in the registers show that foreigners purchased land with a total area of 3877.05 ha on the basis of 4923 registered transactions, including agricultural and forestry real estate with a total area of 412.25 ha on the basis of 351 registered transactions, residential and commercial premises with a total area of 861 010.47 m2 based on 5171 transactions. 129 acquisitions of shares or shares were registered in companies owned or owned by perpetual property with a total area of 10,718,96 ha. In 2015, foreigners purchased the most ground property in Mazowieckie, Dolnośląskie and Silesia voivodships, and among the buyers were dominant entities representing the nationality or capital of Luxembourg and the Netherlands. Detailed information is provided in the written reports submitted to the High House. In accordance with the Article. 6 Act to acquire property by a foreigner contrary to the provisions of the Act is invalid, and the annulment of the acquisition of property by the foreigner is ruled by a common court. In 2015, 45 transactions entered into in breach of the law were found. In 32 cases, as a result of the actions taken by the Minister responsible for the internal affairs of the parties to the transaction, they themselves led to a state compatible with the law on the acquisition of immovable property by foreigners, while in the remaining 13 cases the Minister referred to the courts for annulment of the acquisition of immovable property by law. Ladies and gentlemen, one of the priorities of the government is to ensure that the tasks of the State are carried out efficiently and reliably. In the field of internal security, among other things, it is important. Whereas the acquisition of information concerning the acquisition of immovable property by foreigners, the registers kept by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration should therefore allow for the monitoring of trends in the acquisition of immovable property, shares and shares by foreigners. Appropriate initiatives will be presented in this respect. High Izbo! When presenting the report of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration on the implementation of the Law of 24 March 1920 on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners in 2015, I ask you kindly to accept it. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u293	Thank you very much. At the moment, I would like to ask Mr Michał Jacha to speak in order to present the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u294	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I hereby submit a report to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the report by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration on the implementation in 2015 of the Law of 24 March 1920 on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners, print No 391. After consulting the Sejm Bureau, the Speaker of the Sejm sent this report to the committee on 5 April 2016 for consideration. Following consideration of this report, the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs held a discussion on 12 May. During the discussion, Members were interested in why the system of control over the sale of real estate to foreigners was not functional. From the report presented by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, it is clear that as far as the records of real estate owned by foreigners are concerned, the number of these properties is several times lower than in reality. According to the Minister, this situation is fundamentally influenced by an imperfect model of the Minister's collection of data to ensure that the register kept in the Ministry is genuinely reference and reflects the facts. Legislative work is currently underway to improve the system, resulting in reliable information in the future. The Commission unanimously adopted the report and asks the High Sejm to adopt the print report No 391. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u295	Please and thank you, sir. I would like to inform you that the Sejm has agreed that in the discussion on this item we will hear 10 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and a five-minute statement on behalf of the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Michał Jach, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u296	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the report by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration on the implementation of the Law on Foreign Acquisition of Land. Minister, for 8 years the Sejm, as well as the public opinion in Poland, cannot wait for reliable information about the quantity of Polish land owned by foreigners. They cannot receive information about how Polish land is sold to foreigners. During that time, and even before, the State failed to comply with its obligation under constitutional Article. 23, which says that the basis of the farming system is the family farm. Information on the amount of land in the hands of foreigners absolutely does not correspond to reality. Thus, despite the preparation of many reliable reports by independent institutions in Poland, there was no response of the Polish government. For example, last year the Belgian Transnational Institute from Brussels reported that in Poland foreign investors purchased more than 200,000. ha method for so-called. A pole. The 2013 NIK report stated that only 2,5 years in the years 2011 and 2013 foreigners actually owned about 7.5 thousand. ha. Of course, there was nothing about this in the reports of those years which he had submitted before the Sejm the Minister of the Interior. This shows that for years the Polish state was not interested in protecting the Polish land at all. This information, which we received at the meeting of the Home Affairs Committee, clearly shows that it was launched in the Ministry of Action to change this situation. Legislative work is underway, which, I believe, will give state authorities the tools to enforce reliable information on an ongoing basis. This will be a turning point in the approach to ownership of Polish land. This is an optimistic signal that comes from this information, from the report of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. Therefore, the Law and Justice will vote in favour of the report by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration on the implementation of the 1920 law on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners in 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u297	Please. Ms Anna Nemś, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u298	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, I am pleased to present my position on the report by the Minister of Home Affairs on the implementation of the Act of 24 March 1920 on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners in 2015. This report, as every year, contains a number of information on the licences issued and the rules for granting them, details of purchased properties: very accurate tabular data on the type, area and distribution, information on the records kept and the legality of the records. The sale of real estate with the participation of foreigners is of a regulatory nature. The provisions of the Act are adapted to the requirements of European law. The acquisition of real estate by a foreigner shall be subject to a permit issued by the Minister of the Interior if the Minister of Defence does not object and, in the case of agricultural real estate, the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development. Objection of one of them means that a positive decision cannot be taken. The Minister may, of course, take advantage of the opinions of other authorities, but their negative opinion is not binding. The permit shall be issued in the form of an administrative decision, giving the possibility to acquire a particular property to a specific entity. The authorisation shall be valid for two years, may not be renewed or disposed of by a third party. Of course, this permit does not give rise to any additional rights and obligations, it allows the foreigner to acquire real estate on a common basis. The legislator provided for a number of exceptions of an individual and subject-matter nature on the basis of which the foreigner is exempt from the obligation to obtain a permit. Foreigners can also apply for a promesa, which is important for a year. The Act, as it stands, sets objective, transparent and stable criteria for the granting of these authorisations. Between 1991 and 2015 197 complaints were dealt with in general over 40,000. It's a decision. This means that only 0.48% the decisions have been contested. This undoubtedly indicates that the Minister's proper role in the granting of permits for the acquisition of immovable property by foreigners is correct. With regard to statistics, the Minister has already spoken. Let me not repeat these tabular data here. The report looks very closely at all categories for each voivodship, entity and size. According to art. Article 6 (6) (a) 1 Act to acquire property by a foreigner contrary to the provisions of the law is of course invalid. This is a sanction for the absolute nullity of a legal act. This means that an act contrary to the law is invalid from the very beginning. Of course, notarial acts are the source of information about property acquired by foreigners. Notaries shall be required to send to the MMA within 7 days of discharge from the notary act. Of course, we've been monitoring this for years. The largest negligence in this area was probably in 2011, when there were more than 500 negligence cases, in 2012 - 300, in 2015 - 318. Of course, this problem is worrying. The Minister also spoke at the committee meeting on the subject. Poland is seen as a stable, attractive place for economic investment. The analysis of applications shows that mostly Polish immigrants, their closest families are interested in the acquisition of real estate, then foreigners who are married to Polish citizens, those who operate in Poland. Once again, I would like to point out that the registers kept by the Minister for the Interior are a powerful instrument of control and a database. We therefore hope that measures will be taken to reduce the number of infringements by notaries and actions that will allow this register to be complete and that, when we listen to this information next year, we can also say that this information is reliable. This moment will be equally important next year and we would like to see it. Ladies and gentlemen! The Civic Platform will accept this report and vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u299	Please. The remaining part of the time for the club will be used by Mr Kazimierz Plocke, also by the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u300	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! In my speech, I will refer to matters relating to the sale of agricultural land to foreigners. Since the start of the Agricultural Property Agency until 31 December 2015, foreigners as natural persons have purchased from the State Treasury resources 1963.5 ha of land, which represents 0.0% all agricultural land sold by the Agricultural Property Agency. For this purpose, 294 sales contracts were concluded. In 2015, however, foreigners as natural persons purchased 38 hectares of land. It was mostly non-agricultural land. Invariably, German, Dutch and Danish investors have been the main buyers of the State Treasury land for several years in terms of the number of contracts concluded. The properties acquired by foreigners are mainly located in the region of Warmińsko-Mazurskie, Silesia, Zachodniopomorskie, Dolnośląskie, Opole and Pomorskie voivodships. Polish entities, companies with foreign capital, which are not foreigners, can acquire real estate resources of the State Treasury, because from 1 January 2001 no consent of public administration is required to conclude contracts for the sale of real estate resources of the State Treasury. From the beginning of the activity of the Agricultural Property Agency until 31 December 2015, legal persons, i.e. companies, purchased property with a total area of 65,4 thousand from the Treasury. ha, which is about 2,4% all agricultural land sold by the Agency. In 2015, on the other hand, 3400 hectares of agricultural land were purchased by these companies. The most agricultural land was sold in the Zachodniopomorskie Voivodships - over 17 thousand. Ha, Warmia and Mazury - 11 thousand. ha, Pomorskie - 8,5 thousands. ha. Legal persons with foreign capital as foreigners leased more than 73 thousand as at 31 December 2015. ha agricultural land, while non-foreigners leased by the end of December 2015 ca. 33,000. ha agricultural land. According to the data provided, as of 31 December 2015, foreigners within the meaning of the Law of 24 March 1920 acquired during a transitional period, i.e. until 30 April 2016, as natural persons 1963,5 ha of agricultural land, legal persons acquired 65,4 thousand during the period analysed. ha of land, while companies governed by commercial law with a majority or minority share of foreign capital leased over 110 thousand of the Treasury's resources. ha agricultural land. Companies of commercial law with a majority share of foreign capital lease about 0.7% agricultural land covered by direct payments. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! According to the above data, there is no risk regarding the purchase of Polish land by foreigners. On the other hand, the protests organized by farmers last year before the Chancellery of the Prime Minister in defence of Polish agricultural and forestry land indicated that the then government of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party did not control the sale of agricultural land in Poland. I would therefore like to ask the Minister how farmers' demands for defending Polish land and forests are being implemented, and let me remind you that they concerned a number of important issues. I'll name two. Firstly, it concerned the deadline for holding a referendum in Poland in order to protect agricultural land and forest land, and secondly, the actions of state authorities against unauthorised persons taking part in tenders for the purchase of Polish land. In addition, I would like to ask the Minister about two important matters. First: At what stage of the proceedings is the Danish Annual Report, and in particular its capital links? This is also what Mr Jach was talking about last year, as I recall, in the sittings of the Sejm committees. I would like to ask you at what stage of the proceedings are these matters today. Second question: How does the trading of shares or shares in commercial companies in the agricultural market take place during a transitional period, i.e. from 1 May 2004 to 30 April 2016, involving foreigners? Let me remind you that this is about companies that operate in the agricultural market and which have land. This is very important information. I'd like to know what stage we're at. In conclusion, I would also like to ask the Minister to answer his written questions. So much for me, thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u301	There you go. Mr Bartosz Józwiak, Kukiz Poselski Club15, will speak at the moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u302	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'll try to summarize. I've written myself a little longer speech, but at this difficult time, I'm going to try to limit myself. In fulfilling the obligations laid down in Article. 4 of the Law of 24 March 1920 on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners, the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration presented to the High House a report on the implementation of this programme for the last years. I will focus mainly on 2015. According to the report submitted, a total of 667 requests for permission to acquire real estate and shares in companies owned or used by perpetual real estate located in Poland were received by the Minister responsible for Home Affairs in 2015. The vast majority concerned real estate, only 11 shares and shares. A total of 823 applications were considered, including those remaining to be considered from the previous reporting period. 15 cases were left unrecognized because they did not comply with the formal requirements required by the law. The administrative decisions concerned 410 permits for the acquisition of land, premises, shares and shares, 12 promes, 40 negative decisions, 7 amending decisions, 178 decision remitting proceedings and 12 decisions maintaining the contested decisions in the form of a request for review. 410 successful applications covered the issuance of 341 permits for the acquisition of land, 68 permits for the acquisition of residential and commercial premises and one permit for the acquisition of shares in a company that owns real estate located in Poland. 40 refusals mainly concerned the consent of foreigners to acquire real estate and premises, and the reason for refusal was the failure of foreigners to establish their permanent ties with Poland or the failure to comply with statutory conditions justifying the authorisation. 13 of this number of refusals were issued in connection with the statement of opposition by the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development. The report submitted shows that the biggest interest among foreigners was in land real estate located in Mazowieckie voivodships, a total of more than 100 ha, Zachodniopomorskie, Warmińsko-Mazurskie, Wielkopolskie and Lesser Poland, here in general half less than the Mazowieckie voivodship, and in Lubuskie voivodship - by another 50% less. Among the foreigners who have been granted permission, I give here a total of natural and legal persons, the most frequently represented were Ukrainian citizens and Ukrainian capital - about 30%, Belarusian, German, Russian and Dutch, while Dutch capital dominated the land purchased. It is also apparent from these reports and statistics that in the last few years the number of permits issued for the acquisition of land remains fairly similar, with slight fluctuations around the number of 300 permits issued per year. As regards the land area, there is a clear decrease which may be linked to the specific nature of legal events, namely the acquisition of real estate in view of the intention to merge companies within the meaning of commercial law. According to the report submitted, in 2015, the Minister responsible for Home Affairs also granted 162 permits for the acquisition by foreigners of land and forest property with a total area of 446 ha, which is 97% the area of all land covered by the permit in the year concerned. In this respect, too, statistical data do not show a trend towards major changes or any clearly increasing trends compared to the previous years. It can be concluded that the data contained in the report reveals that the greatest interest in acquiring real estate in Poland is shown by foreigners from the European Economic Area, and the focus is primarily on land-based property intended for economic investment, purchased by entrepreneurs, as well as for permanent residence in Poland by citizens of the Member States of the European Economic Zone who live and work in Poland. All these collected data and statistics also show what is included in the report that the nature of applications for authorisation has not changed significantly for many years. The only noticeable trend is the increase of interest among individuals buying land in Poland by citizens of Ukraine. Transactions registered in 2015 also indicate that agricultural and forestry land acquired by foreigners is only 11% in this reporting year the area of all land purchased, while the land acquired for housing purposes and intended for economic investment prevails. The Minister's report contains a number of interesting information. It is basically an information mine in terms of the state of management and willingness to buy real estate in Poland. Some of the shortcomings that have been identified have also been noticed by the Ministry. Finally, as well as from the Kukiz club15, I would like to point out whether or not to ask whether it is possible to conclude that, in view of the results contained in the report, it does not seem reasonable to do so quickly, inaccurately proceding the law on the suspension of the sale of agricultural land in the agricultural agency's resources, which we have recently been investigating here in this Chamber, because it is not particularly visible, it does not result from this report that it is a great boom for the purchase of agricultural property, and we have basically adopted a bill here, which, as the ministers today also note, is at least imperfect and has many aspects, and the only thing we have achieved is the ban on buying agricultural land, which is not only foreign land, but also Poles. So that, in the light of this data, it seems quite questionable or worth considering why we had to proceed in such a way and so quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u303	There you go. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Posel Club, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u304	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to present the position of the Modern Club on the report by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration on the implementation of the Law of 24 March 1920 on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners in 2015. Here I have this remark, Mr Marshal - and I also fight myself in the chest as a Member, knowing that sometimes we pass legal bubbles - that you can create a law that works for 96 years. This law works very well, since it is the basis on which permission is granted. As far as the whole report is concerned, I can honestly say that it is very exhausting, and it also presents a very good story, because there is a lot of historical information about the issue of these permits. Authorisations for the purchase of immovable property shall be issued in the form of an administrative decision. The Minister may request an opinion from the Minister of Development, the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy, the Minister of Treasury, the Minister of the Environment, the Head of the ABW, the Chief Border Guard, as well as the competent voivode and monument conservation officer. We see that there are many instruments that make the decision actually preceded by a thorough legal analysis. Real estates that require authorisation are land, agricultural, forestry, utility, residential, shares and shares. I have pointed out that the decisions issued by the Ministry are, of course, subject to judicial review, but here it is good to say that very few complaints against the decisions issued have been filed over the years. These are basically individual cases where someone refers to the court, and from all of this very few appeals have been recognised, and it can therefore be concluded that the ministry's actions were as appropriate as possible. I will not quote here the data that you presented to the Minister and which have also appeared in many reports. I can only say one thing - that over the last many years the amount of land that has been sold, both agricultural and forestry property, has remained at a similar level in total. Here we see a big increase when it comes to the purchase of real estate, which are housing. Many foreigners decided to settle in Poland and therefore requested permission to buy apartments. We should also say that it was a big surprise that they were buying a lot of land. not only representatives and residents of Western European countries, but also of Eastern and Central Europe, and these were not such quantities as to shock. In this connection, I also have this remark, which was raised here by a Kukiz club representative. The question is: Has there really been many irregularities? Could a foreigner who could legally apply for a permit, if he really wanted to acquire more land, do so completely, completely legally? To sum up, the Modern Club will vote in favour of this report and it seems that this report has been prepared in a very reliable manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u305	There you go. Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, will speak at the moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u306	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, March 24th this year 96 years have passed since the then Sejm of the Republic passed, one could say today, an innovative law on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners. Poland was newly after regaining independence, as well as after the end of World War I. By fulfilling the obligation laid down in Article. 4 of the Act, once a year the Minister responsible for Home Affairs shall submit to the Sejm a report on the implementation of the Act. This is a subject and at the same time a very important issue, especially in the current geopolitical situation. High Seym! Before I go to the point, let me point out that the report covers the electoral year, so its content includes actions in this matter carried out for 11 months by the Minister responsible for Home Affairs in the government of the PO and PSL and 1 month of the current office. The report submitted to the High House shall copy the activities of the Ministry on the basis of three key areas: information on the permits issued, the type and area and the territory of the distribution of the properties covered by the permit and, finally, the rules on authorisation and the reasons for the refusal. The Act sets out clearly, and not an implied term for "foreigner', and the acquisition of real estate within the meaning of the Act is the acquisition of the right of ownership or perpetual use on the basis of any legal event with which the rules of law combine the formation, modification or cessation of the legal relationship. At this point, it is important to emphasise situations which exclude from the scope of the law, as treated by the provision of the article. 7. These situations concern the transformation of a commercial company within the meaning of Title IV of Chapter III of the Commercial Companies Code. As a general rule, the provisions of the Act do not apply to the acquisition of real estate by inheritance or recovery by persons entitled to legal inheritance regardless of the type of real estate. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The authorisation for the acquisition of real estate and shares shall be granted in the form of an administrative decision and shall therefore be subject to all legal requirements resulting from the Law of 14 June 1960. Code of Administrative Procedure and the Law of 30 August 2012. Right to proceedings before administrative courts. Special obligations have been imposed on the Minister of National Defence and the Minister of Home Affairs. There is also a requirement for many other authorities and bodies to express their views in administrative proceedings. Separate legal regulation regulates the acquisition of real estate, shares and shares by foreigners from the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation. The report submitted also deals with complaints against administrative decisions brought to the voivodship administrative courts as well as the Supreme Administrative Court. In the reporting year 2015, four complaints were brought against 659 decisions. This is a very small number of complaints and is comparable only to 2010 and 1992. 178 decisions have been issued for the dismissal of proceedings. Of the 410 cases completed by a positive decision, 341 permits were issued for the acquisition of land, 68 for the acquisition of residential and commercial premises and one for the acquisition of a share in the company. Most permits for real estate were issued in Mazowieckie and Zachodniopomorskie voivodships, and the least in Lubuskie and Małopolskie voivodships. Similarly, interest rates for legal persons developed. Citizens of Ukraine and Belarus led the primaries in obtaining permits to acquire land property. 2015 was characterised by the largest number of land real estate permits since 2011, 335 were issued, while the land area covered by the permit in 2015 was 460 ha and was the lowest in several years. The citizens of Germany, Ukraine and the Netherlands have the greatest interest in acquiring agricultural and forestry property. Also, the authorised agricultural and forestry land area in the reporting year 2015 reached a record low in terms of area per hectare as it was only 446 ha. Authorisations for the acquisition of forest property issued to foreign legal persons concerned properties located mainly in Warmia-Mazury, Lubuskie and Podkarpackie voivodships. As regards the granting of permits to individuals for the purchase of residential and commercial premises in respect of the area calculated in square meters, the Pomeranian Voivodeship leads the primacy, and the smallest interest was enjoyed by the Małopolskie Voivodship. With regard to the number of permits issued for the acquisition of shares or shares in companies owned or permanently owned by a natural person, no authorisations were issued, with one authorisation granted to a legal person. High Seym! When analysing the report submitted, it is noted that the documentation of the property, shares and shares acquired or covered by aliens was kept correctly. The comparison of data from the last 5 years shows that in 2015 the number of registered land purchase transactions increased by more than 11% compared to 2014. Impacts with a significant delay in notarial acts relating to these transactions are still recorded. Therefore, from this point on, let me ask the Minister of Justice to bring this disadvantage to an appropriate level. The main source of information about the property acquired by foreigners is for the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration discharge of notarial acts sent by notaries. Each, particularly long delay, provides the basis for uncertainty, suspension and, as a result, non-regulation of the legal status of a particular property despite the conclusion of such a transaction correctly and in accordance with the law. High Izbo! The analysis of the document, its assessment and the appropriateness of rational management of the property of both the Treasury and other entities raises no major objections to the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, thus representing the position of the Polish People's Party, I state that in the vote my club will vote in favour of the report of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs from print No 505. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u307	Thank you very much. I inform the High Chamber that Poland leads 1:0 after the shot by Jakub Błaszczykowski. At the moment, in such an atmosphere, I ask Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan from the Free and Solidarnia circle to make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u308	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister of Interior Mariusz Błaszczak, in his report on the implementation in 2015 of the Law of 24 March 1920 on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners, provided information that in 2015 a total of 667 applications for permission to acquire real estate and shares in companies owned or used by perpetual real estate located in Poland were received by the Minister of Home Affairs. The report shows that 410 cases were concluded with a positive decision. Most permits were issued for properties located in Mazowieckie and Zachodniopomorskie voivodships. The most common buyers were Ukrainian and Belarusian citizens. The Ministry's report also states that the number of permits issued for the acquisition of land by foreigners has remained similar for 5 years. As in previous years, the sources of information about property acquired by foreigners are for the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration discharge of notarial acts sent by notaries. However, there are still cases of breaches of the timeliness of this obligation in the Ministry. Despite the shrinking number of shortcomings in this issue, this problem still exists on a large scale and therefore it was necessary to intervene in this case by the Minister of Justice. As the Minister of Home Affairs stressed in his report, it is necessary to continue work on changes to the law on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners, including. to impose administrative penalties on notaries for each failure to comply with the obligation laid down in Article. Article 8a (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 1 act. I hope that the necessary regulations will prevent or even hinder notaries from breaking the law. According to the data presented by Minister Błaszczak, the greatest interest in acquiring real estate in Poland is shown by foreigners from the European Economic Area, which is a positive phenomenon, given the fact that living and working in Poland foreigners come from our cultural circle. This makes it easy to adapt and accept new real estate owners socially. The most important point in my view, which is the result of the information provided by the Minister of Home Affairs, is that it is necessary to clarify the regulation and maybe to amend the laws ensuring that the documents relating to the acquisition by foreigners of real estate, shares and shares are properly transmitted by courts and notaries. The Free and Solidarni Circle fully supports the work undertaken in the Ministry on the draft law amending the law on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners and some other laws, including the Law on notariat. In view of the comprehensive and transparent information that we have obtained from the report by the Minister of the Interior of Mr Mariusz Błaszczak on the implementation of the Law of 24 March 1920 on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners, the Circle of Poselskie Free and Solidarni will vote in favour of the report in its entirety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u309	There you go. We're gonna get to the questions right now. Three Members have signed up. Ms Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club, will be the first to perform. It's time for the question to be asked for two minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u310	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have a good report ahead of us that clearly proves the lies of the Law and Justice campaign. In 2015, foreigners received a total of only 335 permits for the acquisition of land property. The average area of real estate authorised for legal persons was less than 4 ha and 0.15 for natural persons ha. Where's the jump on Polish soil? Where's her mass buy-out by foreigners? After all, it is on this basis that Law and Justice began to implement harmful solutions for Poles. Everything under the passwords of the father's defense against redemption by aliens. What did you do? You have restricted the right to it to your fellow countrymen. On behalf of Poles victimized by farming solutions, Minister: When will you fix the defective regulations? When will the bank's lending of agricultural real estate investments disappear? The inhabitants of the Żywiec district still come to my parliamentary office with pretensions that they cannot receive credit for this change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u311	Please. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Posel Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u312	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! One question, because it actually appeared here in the speeches, but also during the committee meeting a lot of suggestions that this information is not entirely consistent with the facts, with reality. I have a question for the Minister: For some months, more than six months, when Law and Justice rule, have there been reports of these irregularities? Were there indications that many lands, many lands, were taken over by foreigners without obtaining permission? Do such signals really confirm what was said about various types of pillars? Was this really confirmed in some material? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u313	Please. Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u314	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, I have a very specific question for you. Has the Minister of Administration and Home Affairs acted or intends to address the Minister of Justice on the discipline of notaries who send notarial acts with considerable delay? It arouses a lot of emotions and causes some confusion about the case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u315	There you go. Did all the Members present themselves? Right now, I ask the Vice Minister of Home Affairs and Administration of Mr Tomasz Zdzikot to speak. Will Mr Jach also want to speak? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u316	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to thank you all for the substantive discussion both in committee and today. She actually points out that the diagnosis of problems related to the application of the law on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners is something that connects all political clubs in the Sejm. We talked a long time about the references of the register. We talked in committee, this thread is coming back today. Indeed, the diagnosis is correct: the register cannot be regarded as fully reference, for example, because it does not cover all legal events which may result in the acquisition of property or perpetual use. It does not cover, at least, the issues of final administrative decisions, it does not cover all of the notarial activities which may be acquired by virtue of, for example, shares or shares in a company which owns the property. Finally, what the honourable Member has just mentioned, namely the notary issue. Especially today, when presenting the report to you, I have emphasised with all my power that the Minister's register is created only - I stress, only - on the basis of the documents received by the Minister for notarial acts and copies of court decisions. Ladies and gentlemen, every year - like you You know very well, because we talked about it in committee, you have knowledge and statements about it - there is a large group of notaries who fail to comply with this obligation. In 2015, we diagnosed this situation with regard to 130 law firms and every year the Minister responsible for Home Affairs - now the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration - addresses the Minister of Justice with an appropriate speech. The Minister of Justice shall take such action as are available to him against those notaries in the National Chamber of notaries. Of course, as of today, the legal situation is that, according to the position of disciplinary courts in the Chamber of notaries, this is a failure which does not qualify does not lead to the punishment of a notary, because this obligation is according to the corporate courts only the reporting character. Indeed, if this diagnosis is clear and obvious, we have gone a step further. I think that in July, the Permanent Committee of the Council of Ministers will have a proposal to amend the law on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners, which is intended to seal this register, to make it fully reference and certainly much more reference than it currently is. For example, I can only say that, for example, if the registered courts, the courts which, under the statutory obligation, are to transmit copies of decisions to the Minister responsible for home affairs, do not at the moment have information on what criteria to follow by passing decisions concerning individual entrepreneurs, and do so a little bit by mistake, which means that we receive about 4 000 a year. of which only 5% may apply and may be included in the register. We are at the final stage of the legislative work. We would like to propose some improvements that we believe will allow the register to be considered as a reference. We are also working at the moment to improve the IT tools that help us keep this register, which are already years old. And, as the Member has pointed out, it is perhaps, in terms of legal acts, a pre-war law, and in the case of IT tools, this passing time is no longer such an asset. This is what we are working on, and I hope that I will be able to present concrete solutions to the High House in the near future. In the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, honourable Members have asked many questions - and today they have been partially repeated - also asking for written information. I have already signed the appropriate answers, and I hope that they will reach your Members in the coming days, if they have not yet arrived, and that they will be satisfactory. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u317	There you go. The discussion is closed. The Board of Administration and Home Affairs requests the adoption of the report by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration on the implementation in 2015 of the Law of 24 March 1920 on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Law on Minimum Compensation for Work and some other laws (Print No 600). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Mr Stanisław Swed to present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u318	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's hard to get started when the game's still a minute away, Mr. Marshal, but what to do is this. [[What's the score?]] For now, 1:0. I hope it stays that way for the white and red. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a draft law amending the Law on Minimum Compensation for Work and some other laws contained in print 600. First of all, I would like to stress that the proposed bill fulfils the objectives set out in the exposé by Prime Minister Beata Szydło for introducing 12 PLN as a minimum hourly rate for contract contracts. The aim of the regulation is to achieve a positive change in the labour market by combating the abuse of civil law contracts and by introducing the protection of those receiving the lowest level of remuneration. In practice, there are situations where a person performing work under a civil law contract has a fixed remuneration which is significantly lower than the minimum wage for work in the context of the employment relationship. Civil law agreements often replace employment relations, with a view to reducing employment costs. On the basis of the inspections carried out by the State Labour Inspection in 2014, almost every fifth of the audited employer or trader failed to comply with the prohibition of civil law contracts under the conditions applicable to the contract of employment, and the problem concerned almost 15% civil law contracts checked by inspectors. Among the civil law contracts concluded, the contracts of the order were dominated. It is worth mentioning here examples that we have dealt with contract orders with a rate of up to 25 gr per hour, and contracts at several zlotys were common practice. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In order to achieve these objectives, the project introduces a minimum hourly rate for certain civil law contracts. The project also provides for the possibility of setting a minimum wage of 80%. and exclusion from the current component coverage of the minimum wage allowance for night work. I'll start with a minimum hourly rate. The proposal submitted to the High House introduces a minimum wage guarantee in the current legal system also for workers on the basis of certain civil law contracts, i.e. procurement contracts and service contracts to which the contract rules apply. From 1 January 2017, the minimum hourly rate for contract contracts or service contracts will be more than 12 PLN. According to the project, this rate will depend on the annual dynamics of the increase in the minimum wage. If the minimum wage for work was set at the level proposed this year by the Government of the Council of Social Dialogue for negotiations, i.e. 2000 PLN, then the minimum hourly rate in 2017 will be 13 PLN. The exact amount of this rate will be determined once the minimum wage for the next year has been fixed. Entrepreneurs and other organisational units would be obliged to pay the wage, taking into account the minimum hourly rate, within the framework of their activities. This will not be the responsibility of natural persons not engaged in business activities, since it would not be appropriate to interfere in the sphere of private relations between natural persons. The minimum hourly rate will apply to the remuneration of natural persons and so-called. self-employed persons who carry out business activities on a one-man basis and personally carry out the tasks arising from the contract. The need to include self-employed persons in the scope of the proposed legislation is due to the abuse of this form of work activity, which often replaces the employment relationship. On several occasions, only to reduce its own costs, the employer puts pressure on his former employee to start a self-employed activity, while the nature of the work carried out in the course of his activity remains unchanged in relation to the work previously carried out in the context of the employment relationship. In the light of the data of the Central Statistical Office in relation to persons performing work in the form of so-called. In 51% of cases, the employer made it dependent on these persons to entrust their work with their business activities. In view of the limitations resulting from the Article. 16 of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on services in the internal market, the proposed regulation on the minimum hourly rate to be introduced shall not apply to natural persons engaged in economic activities registered in a Member State of the European Union or in a State of the European Economic Area. I will now move on to the discussion of the exemptions envisaged in the draft for the application of the minimum hourly rate. First, contracts have been excluded where the place and time of execution of the order or of the provision of services is decided by the customer and the remuneration is only dependent on the result of the execution of the order or the provision of services. This form of provision is intended to exclude from the application of the minimum hourly rate cases where the customer himself determines the place and time of performance of the tasks covered by the contract, while maintaining full freedom in this respect and the remuneration available to him must be entirely dependent on the results of the execution of the order or the provision of services. This exemption will therefore not cover cases where the execution of an order or the provision of services at a specific place or time arises from the contract or the substance of the order or service, e.g. protection of facilities or cleaning. Secondly, the proposed regulation also provides for the exclusion of civil law contracts concluded in the field of services relating to continuous 24-hour care of persons in certain situations, e.g. running a family help home, during rest or excursions. The obligations of persons providing such services relate to 24/7 care, which is not consistent with continuous activity at that time, and therefore the value of these services cannot be determined on the basis of a specific number of hours. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We also propose that the remuneration resulting from the minimum hourly rate, as well as the remuneration for work as a guarantee and maintenance remuneration, should be subject to special protection. First, the proposed project prohibits the waiver of the right to remuneration resulting from the minimum hourly rate and the transfer to another person. Such provision shall protect the payer's income and protect against fraud and attempts to circumvent the regulations introduced. Secondly, the draft provides that the payment of the remuneration resulting from the minimum hourly rate is to be made in monetary form. Such a solution is intended to prevent abuse in the form of exerting pressure on the receiving or providing a service to accept remuneration in a form other than monetary, e.g. in the form of goods produced by the trader. Thirdly, the project provides for guarantees that the contractor will receive a remuneration of a minimum hourly rate at regular intervals in the case of contracts concluded for a period of more than 1 month at least once a month. The periodic nature of remuneration payments is of particular importance in the case of long-term commitments. The amount of the contractor's remuneration should be determined in the contract in such a way that the remuneration for each hour of execution of the order or service is not lower than the minimum hourly rate. In order to enable checks to be carried out to ensure a minimum hourly rate, the project shall contain rules on the rules for determining the number of hours of execution of the order or the provision of services. In principle, these matters should be laid down in a contract concluded by the parties. In the absence of such arrangements, the customer will be required to provide written, electronic or documentary information on the number of hours of execution of the order or the provision of services. A 3-year retention period is foreseen for the documentation relating to the remuneration paid. The draft also provides for sanctions where the payer pays the customer a remuneration for each hour of execution of the order or the provision of services of less than the applicable minimum hourly rate. The payer who pays a remuneration lower than that resulting from the applicable minimum hourly rate will be subject to a fine of 1 000. PLN up to 30,000. zł. In view of the introduction of minimum hourly rates for certain civil law contracts, it is necessary to confer the relevant powers of the State Labour Inspection. The proposed project extends the powers of inspection to control compliance with the minimum hourly rate rules. The State Labour Inspection shall be entitled to refer an application or to issue an order for payment of a salary of a minimum hourly rate. The labour inspection will be able to carry out checks on the payment by the operator of the paid wage resulting from the minimum hourly rate on the basis of the rules applicable to the checks on labour law. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The introduction of a minimum hourly rate will affect ongoing contracts concluded in public procurement or otherwise. Therefore, with regard to contracts concluded before 1 September 2016, the draft law introduces provisions enabling the parties to negotiate on an appropriate change of remuneration and, under certain conditions, termination of the contract. It should be noted that long-term contracts are generally concluded for a limited period of time and that the possibility of their free termination is often limited. This applies in particular to contracts concluded under the Public Procurement Law. Failure to renegotiate due to the increased costs resulting from the introduction of a minimum hourly rate could result in the loss of viability of companies and would endanger the performance of contracts. The proposed regulation also introduces amendments to other laws aimed at effectively introducing a minimum hourly rate into the legal order. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In addition to the introduction of a minimum hourly rate for the execution of a contract or the provision of services, the proposed project also provides for changes to the minimum remuneration for persons employed on the basis of the employment relationship. Firstly, the draft law abolishes the possibility of differentiating the minimum wage for work depending on the traineeship. Currently, the provisions provide that the remuneration of the employee during his first year of work may not be less than 80%. the minimum wage for work. In the current economic context, such a solution is not justified because the situation on the labour market in Poland has improved in the last 2 years. The possibility provided for in the Act to determine the employee's salary in the first year of his work at 80% The minimum wage for work shall be assessed as discriminatory for young people in the labour market. Therefore, the proposed proposal provides for the repeal of this provision. After the change has entered into force, all workers, regardless of their work experience, will have the right to a minimum wage equal to the same amount. Secondly, the draft law provides that the allowance for night work is not to be taken into account when calculating the minimum wage. In the light of the rules in force, the minimum remuneration for work is not merely a basic salary, it is the total remuneration of the employee for the nominal working time of the month in question, and thus, in addition to the basic salary, it also covers other components of remuneration and employee benefits included by the CSO in the personal remuneration, including bonuses, rewards and remuneration allowances. The inclusion of this allowance in the minimum remuneration means that in some cases the grant of that allowance to a worker in practice does not result in an increase in the remuneration he receives. The proposed rules meet the demands of trade unions. At the same time, I would like to add that the regulations contained in the proposed law have been drawn up taking into account the comments and in the broad consultation of the workers' and employers' sides. Resolution No 9 of the Social Dialogue Council of 7 April 2016 on the draft law amending the Law on Minimum Compensation for Work and certain other laws and the results of the consultations and resort arrangements have led to the conclusion of a compromise between the social side and the government, which is that the Act will enter into force on 1 January 2017, and this rate will also be valued, taking into account the value mentioned, 2 000. PLN at the minimum wage will be 13 PLN, as well as the night allowance will not be included in both the minimum wage and the hourly rate. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I propose that the draft law on the amendment of the Law on Minimum Compensation for Work and some other laws, contained in print 600, be submitted to further work in the Sejm committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u319	Thank you. I would like to inform you that in the discussion on this item we will hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Beata Mazurek, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u320	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the government draft law amending the Law on Minimum Compensation for Work and some other laws contained in print 600. There are millions of people waiting for this bill that go to work every day, and they don't have a signed employment contract, but just an order agreement. Pathology related to the abuse of civil law contracts affects entire industries, local environments and pushes many Polish families to the margin of life and existence. This can no longer be tolerated. The liberal economy has its limits and the state should clearly define them for the benefit of its citizens. Yes, freedom of contract, including the amount of remuneration, is an important value, but only if the parties to the contract have comparable strength. Where there is an imbalance between the parties, the rights of the weaker ones must be taken care of. Today, there is no doubt that the employer is the dominant party in the employment relationship and that the employer is stronger. It is he who practically imposes and creates the conditions of employment, including the principles of remuneration. In the case of employees under a contract of employment, wage negotiations relating to the establishment of the remuneration rules shall be taken over by the trade unions, even if they are involved in the agreement of the remuneration rules, but there is no one to ask for increases to guarantee the level of minimum remuneration. The experience of the State Labour Inspection shows clearly that people who do work on the basis of contract contracts are, as a rule, second-class employees. It is not only that they do not exercise the rights guaranteed by the Labour Code, but their wages are still at an outrageously low level. The case of a security worker whose contract was constructed in such a way that the wage rate for the first 40 hours was 25 gr and for the remaining hours - 5,90 zł. The consequences of accepting such conditions were that the man had to spend several hundred hours a month in order to earn an amount corresponding to at least a minimum wage for his work. This is not an isolated, individual situation, under such conditions work hundreds of thousands of workers in the construction, security, cleaning and services sector. Unfairly competing traders, in order to reduce labour costs, impose a remuneration on persons employed under civil law contracts at a level significantly lower than the minimum wage available for employment in the context of employment relationships. In general, it can be said that employment on the basis of a civil law contract means hungry hourly rates and, as a result, work over-strength. It will be crucial for those who are guaranteed a salary of 12 PLN per hour of work to know whether this rate can be effectively enforced. The government project provides that the State Labour Inspection will ensure that employers apply the minimum level of remuneration guaranteed by the State. This is particularly important because the person currently working on the basis of an order in the event of a dispute as to the amount of his remuneration is sentenced to a lengthy and costly dispute in a civil court. The State Labour Inspection will be able to carry out checks on the payment of remuneration of the amount resulting from the minimum hourly rate on the basis of the rules applicable to the checks on labour law. The government proposal provides that an employer who fails to comply with the obligation to provide a minimum hourly rate will commit a criminal offence punishable by a fine of 1 000. Up to 30,000. zł. Moreover, the Labour Inspector will be a public prosecutor in cases involving such offences. The government proposed that the remuneration resulting from the minimum hourly rate for the implementation of civil law contracts, as well as the remuneration for work, it was subject to special protection. This protection is to be reflected in the obligation to pay remuneration resulting from the minimum hourly rate in monetary form. This will reduce the possibility for employers to abuse the client by exerting pressure on them to accept remuneration in a form other than monetary form, e.g. in the form of goods produced by the trader. Thus, the State creates the conditions for rules with a minimum hourly rate not only to become an empty declaration. It should be stressed that the foundation of the government's draft law on the introduction of a minimum hourly rate for workers on the basis of specific contract contracts and service contracts is the agreement of the social partners sitting on the Council of Social Dialogue. This shows that even in difficult matters one can talk constructively and factually. This is one of the first agreements reached by trade unions and employers' organisations. On the basis of the agreement of the social partners, the government has developed solutions that take into account the possibilities of Polish entrepreneurs and meet the expectations of employees. An additional value of the proposed solutions is that the minimum hourly remuneration rate will be valued annually. The mechanism of this valorisation has already been proposed in the Act. The government's draft law amending the Law on Minimum Compensation for Work is another important manifestation of concern and commitment to ensuring that the benefits of economic transformation are the participation of the widest possible circle of citizens, not just a narrow group of influential people. The government's proposal will certainly contribute to civilization [[♪ The bell ♪]] labour relations and reduce pathologies resulting from the abuse of civil law contracts. This is why Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the project and proposes that it be directed to further work in committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u321	Thank you. Mrs Izabela Katarzyna Mrzygłock, Parliamentary Club, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u322	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present an opinion on the government's draft amendments to the Law on Minimum Compensation for Work and some other laws described in Seym Printing 600. Today, we are discussing legislation that aims to increase the income of the least earning workers and, which is a completely new solution, to those who carry out orders. This second issue raises the most controversy, because, as I mentioned, we are dealing with the previously unpracticed interference of the state in part of civil law agreements concluded in our country. Why does such a problem even arise? People who know the subject of civil law agreements in sectors such as: The protection of persons and property or cleaning services, know very well that for years there has been a situation where the person carrying out the contract received 4 or 5 PLN for an hour's work, while the working time standards in accordance with the Labour Code were not respected. I would like to remind you that by the end of last year the contractors were not covered by ZUS contributions, so they did not have the right to many benefits available to employees. It is easy to calculate that the person receiving 5 PLN per hour could count on a monthly payment of approx. 800 PLN. So are we still talking about the free market and the freedom to conclude contracts, or are we already dealing with some pathology? It is worth adding that there was a situation in which almost all security and cleaning companies had to adapt to the lowest rates, otherwise they would not be able to stay on the market. As I said, at the beginning of the year, the rules for the deletion of contracts of the order came into force by the previous government. I have been involved in the whole legislative process of preparing these solutions. This gave me the opportunity to hear and analyse all the arguments in the discussion. It is clear that the termination of contracts, as well as the minimum hourly rate discussed today, will directly result in an increase in costs for companies and institutions that employ external companies for some work. In so far as the financing of the contributions could partly be transferred to the person executing the contract, this will no longer be possible in the case of a minimum hourly rate. We can therefore expect that the rules discussed today will create a great deal of confusion in the market for contracted services. However, in our opinion such a shock must occur sooner or later, because we cannot pretend that working for 800 PLN per month is a normal and acceptable situation. Importantly, it was during the process of dealing with the rules on the desensitization of civil law contracts that it turned out that one of the lowest rates for protection or law enforcement services was paid by state and local authorities. The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club considers that, because of the pathologies I have indicated, it is necessary to regulate to some extent the issues relating to civil law agreements, namely the employment of an employee without the Code of Labour. We are convinced that setting a minimum hourly rate may, to some extent, stabilise the situation and have a positive impact on both the contractors and the contractors. The further struggle to lower prices does not serve anyone, even institutions that today enjoy savings in tenders, because it is difficult to talk about any quality of the service bought below a certain financial level. However, we must bear in mind that we are talking about new legislation, and that is why we need to examine very carefully the solutions in the draft. An important issue is the date of entry into force of the minimum hourly rate. Some companies are bound by multi-month contracts, so it is necessary to find a way to allow entrepreneurs to adapt to new conditions or give them the opportunity to renegotiate these contracts. There is also a danger that there will be unfair companies who want to circumvent the rules - as the social partners pointed out, for example, the cleaning lady can receive. 12 zlotys an hour, but for 5 zlotys she will have to rent equipment from the principal. Such and other situations should be eliminated already at the process stage. Therefore, on behalf of [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would like to ask the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club to refer the bill to further work in Parliamentary committees, especially since the solution we are talking about today was also one of the elements of the Civic Platform electoral programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u323	There you go. Mr Jarosław Porwich, Kukiz Poselski Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u324	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I have to say this: and life has become more beautiful - it's so about the match, the result of the match Poland - Ukraine. But to the point. On behalf of the Kukiz Club, 15 I have the honour to present my position on the government draft law amending the Law on Minimum Compensation for Work and some other laws. According to the projectors, the aim of the law is to achieve a positive change in the labour market by countering the abuse of civil law contracts and introducing the protection of those receiving the lowest level of remuneration. I will refer only to three basic proposals in the project, i.e. elimination of the remuneration of an employee employed in the first year of employment of 80% minimum wage for work, not to include a minimum wage for night work allowance, the introduction of a minimum hourly rate in contract contracts and the provision of services. Proposal to terminate the establishment of the right to remuneration of an employee employed in the first year of employment of 80% The minimum wage for work should be assessed positively. A person entering the labour market by being on the so-called: Accomplishment can't be treated worse at startup than other employees. The current rules have been discriminatory in terms of young workers. It is very good that the applicants propose to abolish this record. As regards not including the minimum wage for night work allowance, the current legal status, Article. Article 6 (6) (a) 5 The Act on Minimum Compensation for Work assumes that when calculating the minimum wage of an employee, the following shall not be taken into account: the Jubilee Prize, payment of the staff member's pension due to retirement or pension for incapacity for work, overtime pay. This means that employers include all other components in the minimum wage paid to employees. The current state of law and the proposed change do not eliminate inequalities in the treatment of workers, as very often any additions to the basic salary lose their function. Example. Two employees are employed at the same workplace. The first, experienced gets, among others. Internship allowance and bonus, e.g. For efficiency. In total, he receives the total amount of the monthly minimum salary. The second employee, the newly employed, the average, who does not deserve a bonus, also receives the minimum wage, i.e. the same. There are many examples of this in practice. Is that fair? We call for changes that go further, not only to exclude from the minimum wage an allowance for night work, but to ensure that the minimum wage for work is only a basic salary that does not include any additional components of remuneration. The situation will then be clean, clear and, above all, fair. The issue of the introduction of a minimum hourly rate in contract contracts and services. It is, of course, appropriate to introduce it, as it is intended to guarantee that customers receive a minimum wage and provide services. However, the applicant authorised in the draft cases excluding the application of a minimum hourly rate. There are questions: Will the payers not use this gate, these possibilities? Aren't they gonna skip the hourly rate? Aren't they going to apply such practices over and over again? Time will tell. Unfortunately, the project introduces further burdens in the form of the need to carry out tasks related to confirming the number of hours of execution of the order or service and keeping the related documentation. Another unnecessary paperwork, which will often look like it is the customer who will enter the number of hours worked, and the customer will simply sign. The question arises as to whether the number of hours entered will correspond to the actual amount of things. The draft provides that, 36 months after the date of entry into force of this Act, the Council of Ministers will present an assessment of the functioning of this Act to the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. According to the Kukiz Club, 15 evaluations should be made after a shorter period, as the effects of this law will be seen in the first months of 2017. By the way, let's reduce the taxation of work, create such conditions for the development of mainly micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, so that without orders it is possible to pay decent employees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u325	There you go. Mrs Joanna Augustynowska, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u326	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The aim of the bill is to give a new direction to changes in the labour market. And rightly so, because the labour market needs to be changed, and it is very thorough, and regulation in this area also needs to be changed. Project designers want to counter the abuse of civil law contracts and increase the protection of the least earners through this project. However, I have very serious doubts as to whether the solutions proposed in this Act will serve this purpose. These doubts are also shared by institutions such as trade unions, business unions and employers, the Polish Craft Association or the Polish Association of Protection Workers, which also expressed these opinions in writing during the consultation. Why is this bill bad and not positive for the labour market? Let me explain. Firstly, the introduction of a minimum rate of remuneration will exclude the possibility of flat-rate remuneration in the case of contract contracts, thus breaching the principle of freedom of contract. Secondly, in contracts based on results or commissions, creating mechanisms for registering and controlling working time will be physically impossible, it simply cannot be done. By fixing a rigid rate of civil law agreement, they will lose their negotiating character and will no longer have the legal right to be in the Civil Code. That's not what civil law contracts are for. This will also lead to a deterioration in the financial situation of public institutions which over-use civil law contracts to reduce costs, which may result in negative results for the remuneration of these workers and their working conditions. If you can look for positive aspects in the changes proposed in this draft law, then, of course, excluding the allowance for the night pay in calculating the minimum wage is such a solution. Such a solution is also to eliminate the reduction of the minimum wage for those entering the labour market to 80%, which will create a balance and non-discrimination. However, it is absolutely shocking and strange for me to change the powers of labour inspection. I understand that giving certain tools to control is necessary for the inspection of work to function normally, but I am surprised at the record of the competence of the given inspection of work, which says that at any time of day and night this inspection may take place. My question is this. What is the purpose of night business control? Tell me, too, how does control have... [[Civilisation of labour relations, Madame.]] ...to be carried out, since really to carry out labour inspection checks you need a staff department, you need an accounting department, you really need documents, and as far as I know, in the labour market accounting departments do not normally work at night. [[Voice from the hall: It is so throughout Europe.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this law opens the door to new forms of abuse, of which I would be happy to tell you on the committee, hoping that we will be able to work on this bill and make changes that will aim to improve the conditions of the labour market and not to eliminate it. And one more sentence at the end. From 1 January 2016 we pay higher ZUS contributions to all orders. This resulted in 10% protection workers on the market employees lost their jobs. Are these directions that are positive? I don't think so. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u327	Please. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u328	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Minister! High Izbo! The law on the lowest wage and the lowest hourly rate has always aroused controversy. The rations of both workers, trade unions and employers are rubbing off here. Modern will always support these actions, which will result in Poles' wages being as high as possible and which will reduce the distance between us and Western European countries on this issue. However, we do not think that this can be achieved by adopting this law. In order to increase the remuneration of employees, the financial condition of companies needs to be improved by economic development, increasing GDP, tax incentives, a friendly environment for employers. In Poland we currently have an employee market, not an employer, and it is he who very often dictates working conditions and wages. We are in favour of a solution that will allow minimum wages to be adapted to the conditions prevailing in the region and to be differentiated, which could lead to new investment and development in areas that are actually neglected. Modern, of course, will make its amendments during work in committee, but I would also like to draw attention to the fact that this is another law which is the implementation of the electoral promises of Law and Justice, only Law and Justice unfortunately reaches once again into the pocket of entrepreneurs and draws out this money. Because I would like to point out that 150 zł [[♪ The bell ♪]] raising the minimum wage of 70 PLN is a racket which the employer will have to pay to the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u329	There you go. Mr Krystian Jarubas, a club of the Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u330	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I am pleased to present my position towards the government's draft law amending the Act on Minimum Compensation for Work and some other laws, print No 600. Ladies and gentlemen, the continuation is a good word for what PiS is doing today - the continuation of PSL's family-friendly policy. PSL introduced 1000 zlotys for each mom without the right to benefits... [[With the platform.]] The PiS gave 500 PLN, unfortunately, for the second, not everyone, as they promised, a child. But you can still see that they've kept their course. This can also be seen when it comes to discussions within the Social Dialogue Council, which was built by the Minister of Labour Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz. [[With the platform.]] This is the place to talk to trade unionists and employers about work and wages, and for that PiS should be commended, but unfortunately, as usual, the rulers do not show much desire to look carefully at their own proposals and to think for a moment. Chaos and lack of concept - this is what your governments look like, and examples can be multiplied for this. In the previous term, the PiS supported RES, and now it blocks them. In the previous term of office, the PiS voted in favour of the introduction to social benefits of the principle of zloty for zloty, now that we have tabled such an amendment to the 500+ programme, the PiS rejected it. In order not to forget, PiS also changed its mind about the Minister of National Defence - before the elections, as I recall, it was to be Deputy Prime Minister Gowin, after the F-16 elections, Mr Macierewicz symbolically took part. That's a good change, but now we're trying to see the pros. If the PiS changes its mind that way, we're hoping that he'll change his mind about the minimum wage proposed. Dear rulers, you know very well that PSL is not a total opposition, especially as regards the scope of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, today called the Ministry of the Family. However, we call on you to take advantage of the good advice of your predecessors, because what you are doing is the continuation of the policy initiated by the previous government. If the government declaration on the increase of the minimum wage for work on the job is fulfilled, up to 2 000. zł is a minimum hourly rate, among others. for contract workers, the order should increase to at least 14 PLN, and preferably to 15 PLN. You'll ask why. Well, the answer is simple: it has to be a real choice - either we make a little more per hour and we have less security, or this pay is a little lower, but there is a fixed contract, a job contract. Fair? That's right, especially since we all remember your promises made during the election campaign. It is important to take into account some dynamics with regard to 2015, when electoral promises fell, conditions changed. In our opinion, 12 and 13 PLN is no longer sufficient, which is why the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party will make an amendment and we propose to refer the project to the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u331	Małgorzata Zwierzan, near Free and Solidarnia, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u332	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the government draft law amending the Law on Minimum Compensation for Work and some other laws, print No 600. The increase in the minimum wage, but without a change in the tax-free amount, leaves us unsatisfied, but I realise that it takes time to change. When the issue of wage increases arose, the previous liberal government only accepted employers' arguments. The current government has decided that Poles deserve a better life and honest work for a decent salary. Today, governments have promised to improve the living conditions of ordinary people in last year's election campaign, and so far they have consistently implemented it. We already have 500+, the announcement of a program to build cheaper apartments, and now increase the minimum wage to 2,000. PLN and the lowest hourly rate up to 13 PLN. As the head of "Solidarity" put it, Piotr Duda in an interview for Friday's Baltic Journal: "Working matters are better than predecessors." Of course, expectations are greater because the issue of reducing the retirement age is still being negotiated. And only the tax-free amount actually came down. Somewhere further to plan. But you hear the announcement of a new solution, a combination of tax and insurance premiums. The proposal to raise the minimum wage is a step in the right direction. Poles really make too little money to live a decent life, let alone equal to the European level. How often we hear a slogan repeated by politicians, economists and entrepreneurs: the wealth of the state is the wealth of its citizens. Following this message, let us create the conditions for an increase in the wealth of our compatriots, and thus we will build the wealth of our homeland - Poland. Circle of Free and Solidarni supports the proposed bill and asks for further proceding. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u333	There you go. We're moving on to the questions right now. Members have come forward. There's 15 people. Mr Zbigniew Biernat, the Law and Justice Club, will be the first to perform. How much time do you need? Will you have a minute and a half? [[Yes.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u334	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The draft law sets out the minimum hourly remuneration for workers under a civil law contract, i.e. contract or contract for the provision of services. It therefore introduces the nature of the guarantee of this remuneration. However, the draft law does not determine whether the remuneration for such a title is subject to the same enforcement restrictions as the remuneration for the employment contract. I would like to point out that Art. 833 The Civil Procedure Code does not provide sufficient protection for this remuneration. That is why I wanted to ask, Minister: Is there a revision of the provisions of the Civil Procedure Code in such a way as to limit the execution of remuneration obtained from contract contracts or service contracts? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u335	Please. Mr Kazimierz Starzdowski, the Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u336	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In connection with this government bill, I would ask you to clarify my doubts about the content of the article. 1 point 1b of the amended Act on minimum remuneration for work. This provision contains the concept of an entrepreneur who will be obliged to pay a minimum hourly rate to the person receiving the contract or providing the service. Is the concept of "business" also understood as "farmers"? My second question concerns Art. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Act in question, which gives the economic operator the power to terminate the contract concluded following a public procurement procedure with two months' notice in the absence of an agreement with the contracting authority on an appropriate change of remuneration. Who will cover any damages suffered by the Contracting Authority if the Contractor exercises its authority? Will the contracting authority have to make a possible claim to the contractor on a judicial route, or will it receive any compensation from the State Treasury in such a situation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u337	Please. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Club Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u338	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I wanted to refer to the situation that arose when the orders were deleted in January. At the time, the labour market reacted with a reduction in employment and expansion of the shadow economy. The rules introduced by this Act may have a similar effect. On the one hand, setting a minimum hourly rate is a step in the right direction and will eliminate abnormally low hourly rates. On the other hand, unfortunately, in some companies there is an expected reduction in employment. The negative effects of change will therefore be affected by the least-earned and weakest social groups - the earners, i.e. pensioners, workers without professional qualifications, experience, low education and small towns. Some of the employees will simply move to the gray area. The proposal therefore provides for a significant extension of the powers of the State Labour Inspection and its new obligations. I therefore have a question: Will the State Labour Inspection be strengthened in any way? Does the government expect an increase in expenditure on the State Labour Inspection next year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u339	Please. Mrs Marta Golbik, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u340	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Minister! High Izbo! Many complications and doubts may arise with the introduction of minimum wage rules. The fundamental question is whether there is a concern that the increase in the minimum wage will increase the size of the grey economy, which will make the situation worse throughout the labour market. Employer-worker relationship regulations should be as flexible as possible, the labour market should not be so heavily regulated as this only discourages employers from hiring workers. Finally, I have a question: Is it a case of raising the minimum wage that would deprive families of the entitlement to an education allowance of PLN 500 per first child awarded on the basis of an income criterion? Perhaps such a spontaneous increase in the minimum wage is precisely aimed at reducing budget expenditure that has exceeded government expectations? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u341	Please. Mrs Izabela Katarzyna-Mrzygłock, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u342	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! According to the draft law, the legislator regulates the minimum wage in order contracts. At the same time, the State agrees that the subordinate entities which use the work of external contractors should create the terms of the contract which prevent the minimum wage from being applied, thus supporting the clearing companies in the grey zone. As I have already mentioned, this was unfortunately the case when the contract was deleted. It was not always possible for an external contractor to renegotiate the contract because the contracting service did not want to change the service rate despite higher costs. And the legislator should give a clear signal that there is no agreement on the lowest price criterion, that there is no agreement to lower budgets that prevent decent, lawful employment of workers. And I would like to ask the question: Will local budgets guarantee amounts covering the increase in the cost of introducing new rates? How much money are we talking about here? All those who worked know what I'm talking about, and I'm sure they'll understand my question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u343	Please. Mr Bogdan Latosiński, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u344	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Minister! For starters, some data. In Poland, according to recent data, about 15 million employees are employed, of which about 1.5 million are employed on the so-called. Trash contracts, that's contract contracts. For this reason, according to the latest data of the State Labour Inspection, every fifth contract should be a contract of employment. Those workers, apart from what we say they have scandalous pay conditions, are still deprived of the constitutional right to leave, the right to legal leave, the right to sickness. There are still some worrying data regarding statistics of Polish employment, among others. 27% Poles work on the basis of a fixed-term contract, but the biggest concern is the statistics that around 11% Poles employed are at risk of poverty. And my question: What was the policy pursued by the governments of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party? What effect did they have on the fact that in Poland there is just such a situation that 11% Poles employed are at risk of poverty? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u345	Please. Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u346	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to make everyone aware that Poland is the country in the European Union, where the poorest are working, by 50% more than the average in the European Union, i.e. those who are unable to earn even for their own lives, working full-time. When provision was made for young workers to have a minimum wage of only 80% The generally applicable minimum wage, the trade unions opposed it. It was known that this was a discriminatory provision. This provision is at the same time a violation of the Convention ratified by Poland, which states that the same remuneration is due for the same work. Minister, how could Poland's ratified convention have broken and introduced such laws? It's been going on for so many years. That is the question that should be considered. In any legal change, consideration should be given to the impact it will have. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u347	Please. Mr Antoni Duda, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u348	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The minimum wage is growing steadily. The announcement of this rate has always been assessed by employers as something that will increase unemployment and broaden the grey area. These concerns are also confirmed by my previous colleagues. Observation of the drop and rise in unemployment whether the increase in the employment rate does not confirm these concerns. The best example is 2015 in which employment has increased despite the increase in the minimum wage, as this year, because employment and unemployment are determined by the state of the economy. However, employers always tend to create a black script, since the employer would like to pay as little as possible. On the other hand, the PiS government, while ensuring that employers are better able to do business, represents the whole society, and in the vast majority they are employees. And to be sure, will the government be preparing such regulations as will allow employers to develop and increase the profitability of their business so that they can compensate for the increased cost of paying their employees? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u349	Please. Mr Jan Mosiński, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u350	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! 215 billion PLN - that's what the grey zone is worth. That's 12.4%. gross domestic product. Yeah, we're fighting the gray area that the Modern and Civic Platform want to cover with a glass box. [[That's not true!]] The elimination of rubbish contracts and the minimum hourly rate are two sides of the economic model and labour law. Modern weapons of employers. This concern is understandable - the umbilical cord of business and politics is extremely strong here. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! An employer who can't scale up his business so he doesn't pay his employees, working 8 hours or more, shouldn't choose to do business. This is the reality of the market and economy, my esteemed opposition. Question to government representatives: Will the minimum hourly rate civilize social relations and reduce the grey zone? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u351	Please. Mrs Bożena Borys-Raccoon, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u352	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Minister! This bill isn't just a good change. This bill is a very good change, expected by hundreds of thousands of employees, who by the previous government team to the so-called. The green island lost its name as workers, became contractors, contrary to the law, contrary to expectations, against logic. Poland has become attractive only thanks to the cheap labour force. I thank the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy for trying to end this shameful country, which is at the heart of Europe, pathology. Minister, as former Chief Labour Inspector, thank you for introducing the authority for the State Labour Inspection... [[Voice from the Chamber: Mrs...]] ...to control at any time of day and night, as in all European countries. Can you make our fellow Members of the opposition aware of what these powers look like in all European inspections? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u353	Please. Mrs Joanna Augustynowska, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u354	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have two questions and a suggestion. Let me remind you that 67% Polish GDP is created by small and medium-sized enterprises. These are the companies that the State should care about, should support and significantly reduce the tax wedge on wages. This is the direction that will actually make this employment bigger, lower unemployment and the market will get excited. My question is this: Will the proposed legislation increase the bureaucracy associated with the obligation on contractors to register the working time of contractors? That's the first question. My second question is this: Have you physically consulted with employees, employers, who can tell us how to implement these provisions? Pointing out the lack of political experience here... [[Mr Bożen Boris-Raccoon: Lack of knowledge.]] ...can only be an advantage to us, ladies and gentlemen, because we came from business and did it on a daily basis, and the state, I have the impression, they've been sitting on the bench a little bit, and they've gotten away from reality. [[Mr Bożen Boris-Raccoon: This is my first term of office.]] And my question, which I would like to ask myself, is this: In a situation where we raise the cost of pay and the employer has a certain amount of money to pay, what does he have to choose from? Or fire half the workers, [[♪ The bell ♪]] or renegotiate working conditions. Question: "Which direction will this go?" And these are the doubts that need to be discussed. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u355	Please. Ms Urszula Rusecka, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u356	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question, Minister, whether the amendment introduced to the law will restore proper relations on the labour market and will reduce the slave practices that we often hear about in our parliamentary offices, so that workers do not have to work for up to 300 hours to earn minimum, lowest wages. Madame, I have not sat in Parliament's benches, I have been doing business for 18 years, so please do so without such unnecessary comments. [[Applause]] I believe that the law introduced is a very good law, another law that restores the dignity of workers and fits into a good change of law and justice. I have one more statement to make. Speaking of 500+, it's all about weird conspiracy theories. I'm sure the restoration of dignity at minimum wage won't cause a disturbance on the payout of 500+. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u357	Please. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u358	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am impressed by your knowledge of entrepreneurship. I wonder if you've ever hired an employee or owned a company. [[26 years, sir, I have employed workers.]] Did you have a company? [[26 years...]] At the university. [[No, a job contract.]] Oh, for the employment contract. Okay. [[Don't insult me, or I'll end up in the Board of Ethics.]] So don't teach modern entrepreneurship. A day without attacking the Modern is a day lost to you. [[I don't have politics in my business.]] But there's a question for you. This case has already been raised. It is about many companies that have concluded contracts. It's not a few months' contracts, sometimes it's a few years' contracts. These are contracts which are very often signed on the basis of public procurement, which allowed for really fatal solutions, namely the lowest price. After introducing a higher hourly rate, these companies either go bankrupt or have to renegotiate contracts. The question is: Do you foresee such solutions as will secure these companies? I wouldn't be surprised if such companies were working for the Polish Sejm, because there are outsourcing companies here and also here are companies that might be in such a situation. So that I would very much ask you to tell me what you're going to do so that these companies don't just fall. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u359	Thank you, sir. Indeed, we also need to look at what is happening in the Seym. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] The honourable Member has rightly drawn attention. Mr Stanisław Szwed, Deputy Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy, will speak at the moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u360	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Thank you very much to all the clubs for supporting the project and for being able to work on this project in the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs. This is an important project that they expect, one can say, millions of Poles who have been treated in a way that has often been disgraced, because, as I said before, if we have dealt with contracts that talk about 25 gr per hour - there were people who received such rates, and there were employers who applied such rates - that was, you can say, absolutely unacceptable. I think we all agree on that. Hence these proposals for solutions, which are proposals made in a major compromise. As for the questions you have asked, let me just remind you that the first proposal from the Ministry was that the law would enter into force on 1 July this year. After long negotiations, but also work within the Social Dialogue Council, discussions between social partners, and I will remind you, if you ask about this, about the social side, about employers' opinion that employers are represented in the Social Dialogue Council, we have developed a compromise which has led to the Act entering into force since 1 January 2017, a value-added rate, as well as a question of not including the night allowance in the minimum wage and the 12-gold rate. Also and above all, those honest employers said that it could not continue to be so, because the market was ruined by the fact that so low rates were applied, also in security companies, cleaning companies. This is the part where we can sort this out somehow. The opinions - one of the Members here asked - concerning the entry into force of the desensitization of contracts from 1 January, are not confirmed, that this has enlarged the grey zone or caused some people to be fired. There is another problem when it comes to the fact that some employers are not dealing with this issue when it comes to walking away. I think we'll also be wondering how to make changes here. So that the negotiation process, the compromise process, the discussion was very broad and very long for the bill, and I think that this is also a feature of our government, that we have discussions, dialogue and we work out solutions in dialogue. Everyone who deals with this matter knows very well that matter is difficult. We touch the Civil Code, we touch the labour law and find compromises is difficult here. Of course, if all this would normally work in our country, there would be no need to interfere in the freedom to enter into employment contracts, as the Civil Code says, but unfortunately it is not. All research shows that employers force workers or to start their own business, i.e. to so-called. self-employment, either for the conclusion of contract contracts or, in other cases, for works contracts. I hope that this situation, which we are putting into practice, will bring these issues to a fundamental end and regulate. There were questions about the State Labour Inspection. There's no news here. If we're talking about penalties, they're the same punishments that occur today. Ms Bożena Boris-Szopa's question. After all, we have the lowest penalties in our country throughout the European Union. If you go... [[Voice from the room: Lowest?]] We have the lowest penalties in the European Union. The court can impose a penalty of $1,000. Up to 30,000. zł fine. Such a case in 2014, according to the information of the State Labour Inspection, was probably only one or was not at all. So there is also the problem that we have low penalties, which is why we, together with the chief labour inspector, are thinking about changing the rules in order to make a change in the penalty planner, to make gradation, but also to increase the level of penalties. In the UK, in Ireland, the penalty could be 250,000. The euro, that is the level of penalties there, also in Germany, elsewhere. Punishment of 2,000. The euro is a minimum penalty that can be punished by an entrepreneur. If we want to make changes, it must be the consequence of penalties, but also the inevitability. We also want to introduce such a principle that the first audit ends with a reminder, paying attention, not immediately punishing the employer. Of course, someone has already answered here, but I will remind you that as far as 500 PLN is concerned, we are counting the revenue from 2014, it has absolutely nothing to do with our project. It's a question about public institutions. All right, more than 60%. These rates were applied to different public, public, local and other institutions. The first thing we're going to want to do here with an inspection is control these institutions, as it is implemented. [[And you're going to increase your budgets?]] Wait a minute, my fellow Member, I'll answer right away. As regards the renegotiation of contracts, we are therefore introducing this adjustment period - that is the name of it - from 1 September to the end of the year, when the contracts can be renegotiated and prepared. We're already talking about this case. Now we are at the stage of building budgets in both public and local institutions, and everyone must also take into account that the rates that have been applied so far, 4-gold, 5-gold, 8-gold, in many different public institutions will no longer be applicable next year. This is also the moment when negotiations or changes should take place. Of course, there is also an amendment to the Public Procurement Act, where we are talking about the so-called. Social clauses where minimum rates must now be applied to tenders. Someone was asking about the farmers. The farmer is also an entrepreneur, so it is also clear about the rules. We hope that this change will civilise current pathologies, which unfortunately happen in many cases, and where the employment contract is to be, there are contract contracts or other forms of employment, or even self-employment, and that this will also make things better. And one last remark. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about minimum rates. If we're talking about the amount of 2,000, it's her for today, because that's the question that's been asked, it's guaranteed, unless the social side agrees to lower it. Well, if that were the case, then the Council of Ministers would be wondering. That's $2,000 for today. zł is sure because this is the proposal the Council of Ministers made. The parties can negotiate, but higher, unless there is a reverse situation, that they will agree on a reduction, which we do not assume here. We're talking about minimum rates. If we're talking about $2,000. zł, this net is 1460 zł. These are really very small amounts. Here Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska spoke about the poor workers. This is the problem that you can work in our country today, you get a minimum wage and you have nothing to live from, no means to live or to support your family. This situation is absolutely unacceptable, hence this proposal for a change, and hence this amount - 12. Now, from January 1st, it's going to be an amount, as we said, 12 plus. There will be a total of 13 PLN. This is the direction in which we should go, so that we do not compete, as until today or until 1 January we compete with low, very low wages, but try to raise these wages, although they are still minimum wages. That is why we need other solutions that the Law and Justice Government is working on to raise, to raise wages, to raise the average wage, which we are mostly receiving. It's about wages. So that once again I thank you very much for this debate, for this discussion. I think that there will already be concrete solutions in the committee's work and that I will answer your other doubts. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u361	Thank you, Minister. Ms Elżbieta Rafalska, Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy, asks for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u362	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! What is undoubtedly the value of this debate today is the positions of the opposition clubs, which, although they raise doubts, it is clear that they are deeply convinced that this change is needed. Even the position of the Civic Platform, which had shown some relentlessness earlier, has changed today. We say that really such a shock, such a fundamental change should take place. I think this is something absolutely different, this is a new situation in the legal order. The introduction of a minimum hourly rate significantly changes the pay situation. We, of course, will examine your doubts carefully, but I think that most of them were resolved during the public consultation. That's what Deputy Minister Swed was talking about today. An extremely important compromise has been made, a compromise between the social side and, therefore, between employers... Because, for your part, there have been allegations of ignorance on the part of entrepreneurs of these issues. Well, once again, there is a compromise within the Social Dialogue Council between trade unions and employers. The date of entry into force of the Act has been changed, new mechanisms have been introduced related to the value of the hourly rate, because not much on this subject Yeah, we did. This is also extremely important. It will be abolished by sub-minimums that have so far been able to employ 70% the minimum wage of the worker who took the first job in his life, regardless of the education of the worker. Let me remind you that earlier the Law and Justice abolished the sub-minimum, which allowed the second year to reward the employee at 90%. It was absolutely a discriminatory provision for young people. We tried earlier, while in opposition, to make this change, she was not accepted then, today she is. This change, which concerns the non-counting of the night allowance to the minimum wage, is also an important change and long-awaited by the trade union party. Today is acceptance, she talked about it Modern, so we think that absolutely work in committees will be carried out in an atmosphere of peace and seriousness. And I would like to thank the Minister for Sweden and the entire Department of Labour Law, because this project has gone a long way. The changes were adopted with great calmness and required a compromise approach. You've already done a piece of good legislative work. Thank you very much and I hope that further cooperation will allow us to proceed quickly and send this project to the Senate soon. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u363	Thank you. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u364	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law amending the Law on Minimum Compensation for Work and some other laws undoubtedly introduces a positive change in the labour market. The main objective of this project is to counter the abuse of civil law contracts and to introduce protection for those receiving the lowest level of remuneration. The amendments consist of the introduction into the current legal system of a minimum hourly rate for persons performing work on the basis of specific contract contracts and service contracts to which the contract rules apply. I have a question for the Minister: How does the projector intend to solve the problem of including minimum wage allowances, including night work?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u365	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, it should be pointed out that the purpose of amending the Law on Minimum Compensation and certain other laws should be assessed as fully justified. The preference for employment contracts in economic relations vis-à-vis civil law contracts is necessary as far as possible in view of the protection and benefits of workers. As the designer rightly points out in the explanatory memorandum of the bill, in practice, there are situations where a person working under a civil law contract has a fixed remuneration at a level which is significantly lower than the minimum wage available for work in the context of the employment relationship. Civil law agreements often replace employment relationships, becoming a practice aimed at reducing employment costs. I would like to ask the Minister: 1. Will the proposed law really limit the abuse of civil law agreements? 2. How will it be resolved to include the allowance for night work? 3. What scope of civil law agreements would be concerned with the minimum rate for proposed changes in the project? 4. What agreements will be excluded from the application of the minimum hourly rate? 5. How does the projector intend to address the minimum hourly rate in changing economies and inflation in the light of the changing minimum wage?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u366	In Poland almost 800,000. persons perform work on the basis of contract orders. In many cases the salary is much lower than 12 PLN per hour. There are known situations of exploitation, and even exploitation of people who have no choice but to take employment for 4 PLN or 5 PLN per hour, and it is known that earning 700 PLN per month is difficult to maintain themselves, let alone talking about family maintenance. From 1 September 2016, this will change and such practices will not be allowed, and a minimum hourly rate of 12 PLN will ensure that income is achieved at a level that protects life. It should also be stressed that this law eliminates the possibility of employing young workers for 80% minimum wage for work. In my opinion, this provision was unfair and caused young Poles entering the labour market to want to emigrate. The abolition of this provision is a symbolic but important gesture for young people, graduates of schools, because they will not be legally discriminated against in the labour market. This law is also another after raising the minimum wage to 2 000. zł gross step in getting out of low-wage traps in regions where the average wage is lower than the national average. My question is addressed to a representative of the government. Has the Ministry carried out an analysis of how many employers will be willing to change the form of employment of employees from civil law contracts, and precisely from contract contracts, to safer for the employee, but also more stable for the employer of the employment contract?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u367	I would like to inform you that, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, I propose that the Sejm send a draft law on minimum wages for work, print 600, to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to inform you that the Committee on Public Finance has submitted a report on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Taxation on Goods and Services and amending certain other laws. This report is contained in print No 639. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. Do I hear an objection? I don't hear any objections. We proceed to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: Report of the Rules of Procedure and the Polish Affairs on a draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Sejm (prints no. 529 and 589). Mr Łukasz Schreiber will speak in order to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u368	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Rules of Procedure and Parliamentary Affairs on the Commission's draft resolution on the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Sejm. The Commission considered this proposal at its meeting on 8 June this year, where the first reading took place. The draft resolution is extremely short. It assumes the transfer of standardisation cases from the competence of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development. This amendment seems rational and brings order to this point, therefore, after a brief discussion without any amendments being tabled and in a unanimous decision, the Rules of Procedure and Parliamentary Affairs Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print no. 529 without amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u369	Thank you. At this point we will listen to the discussion in the form of five minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Jolanta Szczypińska, the Platform Parliamentary Club, will be the first to speak... [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha.]] Law and Justice, I'm sorry. I mean...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u370	You're welcome, Marshal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u371	...it's not an apology...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u372	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the draft resolution of the Rules of Procedure and Parliamentary Affairs Committee on the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, print No 529. The rapporteur properly discussed the reasons and work of the committee on this resolution. I would just like to remind you that the aim of the draft amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm is to amend the committee responsible for dealing with matters relating to standardisation, because in the current legal state these matters are dealt with by the Committee on Education, Science and Youth, whereas, according to this draft resolution, the committee responsible for these matters is to become the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development. This change is in line with the demands of the Polish Committee for Standardisation, which puts forward the view that the submission of the standardization of the education and youth committees is a remnant of the system of planning economy in which standardisation was classified as a scientific activity, whereas standardisation is currently a technical activity supporting the general economy and the Polish Institute of Standardisation - an institution from the business environment. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will support the draft resolution. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u373	Please. Mr Jarosław Urbaniak, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u374	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club on the proposed amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. It is extremely laconic, changing the competence of the committee. Nor will the Committee on Education, Science and Youth deal with matters of standardisation, but the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development. As the rapporteur said, there was no controversy during the committee's work. The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club sees no controversy in this change. It's cosmetic, it all depends on the contract. We are only surprised that in the case of such a trivial, simple change, which boils down to the transfer of one word between two points, we are doing a separate item of the Sejm's sitting. It's a little ergonomic from the point of view of the Sejm's work. The Civic Platform will support this draft resolution. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u375	This is due to the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, Mr Sr., unfortunately. If it were a comma, we'd probably have to do that too. Mr Wojciech Bakun, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u376	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the pleasure of presenting my position on behalf of the Kukiz club15 on the resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Sejm. The proposed amendment concerns the transfer of standardisation cases from the Committee on Education, Science and Youth to the Committee on Economics and Development and was formulated in a letter from the Chairman of the Normalization Council to the Polish Committee for Standardization of 18 February 2016 addressed to the Marshal of the Sejm. This change is a orderly, orderly change. The authors of the amendment also took care of a transitional provision which, pending the entry into force of this amendment, will leave all standardisation matters to the competence of the present committee. The Poselski Kukiz Club15 raises no objections to the proposed amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u377	Please. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u378	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Very briefly, too. This resolution raises no controversy. There was a meeting of the presidents of both committees. As chairman of the economic committee, I have confirmed that there is no doubt that this department should be on our committee. There were absolutely no reservations, which is why the Modern Club will support this resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u379	Please. Piotr Zgorzelski, Polish People's Party, has the floor. There isn't. In that case, the discussion is closed. We will join the third reading of the draft resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Customs Law and some other laws (prints Nos 513 and 637). I would like to ask Mrs Eve Szymanska to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u380	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Customs Law and some other laws, print no. 513. The bill entered the Sejm on 10 May this year. On 19 May, its first reading took place at the 19th session of the Sejm. The Public Finance Commission at its meeting on 20 May referred the draft to the Permanent Sub-Committee for monitoring the tax system. At its meeting of 7 June this year. Six amendments and comments from the Legislative Bureau were tabled on the correctness of the wording and compliance with other laws. The amendments have been accepted. The President of the Confederation of Leviatan sent a letter to the subcommittee containing comments on the bill being proceded, also forwarding it to the Minister of Finance. The Minister of Finance has given extensive, comprehensive explanations on this matter. During the proceedings of the bill in the subcommittee, representatives of the government provided explanations: Ms Anna Cyrańska, Deputy Director of the Department of Taxation on Goods and Services in the Ministry of Finance, and Mr Tomasz Michalak, Director of the Department of Customs. The Public Finance Commission, after considering this draft law at today's meeting, asks the High Sejm to approve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u381	There you go. I would like to inform you that in the discussion on this item, we will hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Łukasz Schreiber, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u382	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The whole of the bill was discussed at first reading quite thoroughly, so I would just like to focus on the changes that took place between the first reading and the work in the Committee on Public Finance and the subcommittee to monitor the tax system, as the rapporteur put it. These changes are an amendment to the Article. 1 in point 53. Here we have the deletion of an unnecessary article. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 9 in point 1, we are to add a provision proposing to amend the wording of the Article. 43a paragraph. 2. In accordance with the provisions in force, the opinion shall be delivered by the specialised authorities competent for the place of establishment of the requested customs authority and, following the amendment, by the competent authorities for the location of the product and the subject-matter of the application. The main reason for the proposed amendment is the introduction by the Union Customs Code of centralised clearance - in Article. 179. That institution shall give the opportunity to lodge a customs declaration at a customs office other than that at which the goods are presented. As regards the conclusion of the proposal to repeal the article. 43a paragraph. 5 and 6, this is the reason for the proposed amendment to ensure the consistency of the legal system and the uniformity of the customs authorities' market surveillance activities. Then we have a change in art. 10. This is also a certain oversight and alignment with EU law. Amendments to Article 13 in point 5 (a) c and in Article. 19 in point 6. These changes consist in simplifying the administrative obligations for importers to enable the taxable person to make declarations and not merely certificates when using a regulation allowing the customs authority to waive the obligation to secure the amount of the import tax. In this respect, these changes will reduce the administrative burden for taxpayers. Finally, we have reduced the date of entry into force of the Act from 14 to 7 days. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice undoubtedly supports the government bill after these changes. At the same time, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I would like to make an amendment to the bill: in Article. 1 in point 37 in point (a) b in the second indent of point 3, delete the words "on the whole territory of the country'. I'll explain briefly. The deletion of these terms will enable cooperative banks to provide guarantees to agricultural producers applying for advance payments for the implementation of investments under the Rural Development Programme for the 2014-2020 period. The exclusion of cooperative banks from the list of guarantors will in practice significantly impede farmers' access to advances. Cooperative banks mostly support farmers' bank accounts and know their credit stories and are therefore the first to be addressed when applying for a guarantee of the correct use of advances from the RDPs for the period 2014 and 2020. Bank guarantees are a prerequisite for obtaining advances from the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. This change is part of what we are always trying to do, i.e. to support Polish banking, and we can undoubtedly talk about it in the case of cooperative banks. That's it. Thank you very much. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u383	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to ask Mrs Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u384	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform is pleased to present our position towards the government's draft law amending the Customs Law and some other laws. The project is included in print No 513 and the report of the Committee on Public Finance - in print No 637. On 1 May 2016, the Union Customs Code established by Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 October 2013 entered into force. The new EU rules require our law to be adapted, and this could only happen after the European Union has published rules implementing the EU Customs Code, which took place in March this year. The changes presented in this project have been called the biggest changes in Customs Law for more than 20 years. We know that these changes were expected by both traders and customs authorities. The main objective of the change, as highlighted in the first reading of this project, is above all to improve the functioning of the customs union through uniform application of rules throughout the European Union by national customs services. The draft law contains amendments to the Customs Law and amendments to 20 other laws in which legal trade is regulated and facilitated and eliminates possible abuses. In particular, these provisions concern simplification of procedures for entrepreneurs operating in the common European market. The rules will facilitate trade, reduce fraud and speed up customs procedures. According to the provisions of this law, this will be in the climate of balance between the obligations of customs authorities in respect of compliance on the one hand and the right to fair treatment for each trader on the other. Each reliable trader will be able to use special simplified procedures and any formalities in the case of a reliable trader will be reduced to a minimum. Another important, worth emphasising the scope of these changes is the almost complete elimination of paper-based documents by 2020 and the replacement of their electronic circulation. After that time, i.e. after 2020, full electronicisation of data exchange and storage is envisaged, so any transmission of information in the form of declarations, applications, notifications and storage will take place through electronic data processing techniques. The changes in the proposed project also aim to harmonise the application of customs controls by Member States in order to ensure an equivalent level of control throughout the Union and to avoid any behaviour likely to distort competition. Entrepreneurs therefore face challenges that always bring changes to the rules and then, of course, apply them in practice. However, if these changes are to bring with them, and should, facilitate trade - it is to be simpler, and customs procedures are to be harmonised and more efficient - it seems that entrepreneurs who, as I have already mentioned, have been waiting for these changes will be able to cope with their use in everyday work. The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club will be in favour of these changes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u385	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Bartosz Józwiak, the Kukiz Club15. There's no envoy. I would like to ask you, Mr Michael Jaros, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u386	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Poselski Club on the report of the Committee on Public Finance on the draft law amending the Customs Law and some other laws, print No 513. The proposed amendments to the Customs Law are the result of the replacement of the Community Customs Code which has been in force for more than 20 years by the Union Customs Code. The provisions of the EU Customs Code were already in force at the beginning of May this year and are intended to be, inter alia, facilitating trade, combating fraud by simplifying procedures and rapid customs procedures. The draft Customs Law implements the rules to be applied throughout the European Union. In a large majority it assumes good solutions, wisely adapts Polish law to EU law. Customs law definitely requires harmonisation and simplification. The same regulation within the Community will greatly facilitate customs and trade. This project will certainly be an efficient tool to harmonise customs controls, simplify customs procedures and eliminate cumbersome rules. Changes are in a simple line amenities for entrepreneurs. The draft law introduces e.g. editorial rewordings such as renaming: European Communities to: European Union. The most important, however, are simplification changes, such as customs declarations, customs self-service or centralised clearance. The project also seeks to maintain a greater balance between the trader and customs legislation mechanisms. It also welcomes the planned almost complete replacement by 2020 of paper form of documentation by electronic form. However, there is doubt about the proposal to introduce additional joint and several liability for VAT settlement in the tax return in the direct representation. According to experts from employers' and business organisations, this change will result in the joint and several liability of customs agencies for the unpaid import tax together with the importer. As they claim, it will therefore be a change that harms customs agencies, and the obligations resulting from it are impossible to fulfil. The customs agencies have neither an inspection of the taxable person's accounts nor any legal tools to enforce the correct settlement of the tax by the importer of the goods. Nor do they have any legal capacity or powers to verify the reliability of the accounts of the serviced entrepreneurs in settlements with the State budget. We can expect that the planned changes will facilitate trade and thus improve the competitiveness of Polish economic operators. However, the provision introducing joint and several liability for VAT settlement in the tax return in the direct representation seems unnecessary and even harmful. The Modern Posel Club therefore suggests rejecting it. In addition, the draft amendment to the Customs Law Act and some other laws from print No. 513 of the Modern Club evaluates positively and recommends that it be directed to further work, so that these provisions are implemented as soon as possible and that this EU law is implemented as soon as possible in Polish law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u387	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u388	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I would like to present my position on the committee's report on the draft law amending the Customs Law and certain other laws. The Committee on Public Finance, after considering the report of the Permanent Sub-Committee to monitor the tax system, submitted a draft law to the High House by introducing the EU Customs Code into our country. The draft submitted in print No 637 - the committee's report - is almost no different from the original government submission. In addition to the few legislative and editorial changes, the proposal was supplemented by the amendments provided for in the Payment Services Act and, due to its timeliness, the deadline for the entry into force of the Act was shortened from 14 to 7 days from the date of the announcement. The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party will vote in favour of this project. Let me remind you that this law introduces a uniform system for the functioning of the customs services of the Member States throughout the Union. The most important regulations introduced by the EU Customs Code concern inter alia. the exchange of information between customs authorities and between traders and customs authorities and the storage of such information - this will only be carried out electronically after 2020, including the electronic circulation of documents. The Union Customs Code also reduces the scope of customs procedures - the terminology and number of these procedures are changed. The Code introduces numerous simplifications in customs procedures, including: standardise the TIR procedure. It also indicates additional conditions on which the granting of the status of authorised economic operator will depend, for which it is the Customs Code that provides for far-reaching benefits. An authorised entrepreneur will be able to do this, among others. the provision of services of a customs representative in a Member State other than that in which he is established shall be entitled to a reduced comprehensive security, shall be granted a centralised clearance and a so-called clearance. customs self-service. The project changes many laws, including above all Customs Law. It regulates naming, definitions and standardizes their content in all legal provisions. The introduction of this single customs law should have a positive impact on the competitiveness of businesses that operate in the common market, under conditions of simplification, electronic customs procedures and the unification of law in all Member States of the European Union. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u389	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Ireneus will gain. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u390	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I would like to present my position on the government draft law amending the Customs Law and certain other laws. This proposal aims to bring the Customs Law into line with European Union law, namely Regulation No 952/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 October 2013 laying down the Union Customs Code. I do not comment on the content of the project. The justification for the draft law, in which the applicant fully explains the validity of the various amendments, deserves particular recognition. Possible doubts may relate to two issues. First, as stated in the explanatory memorandum, the Union Customs Code entered into force on 30 October 2013. I would like to know why the adaptation of Polish law by amending the law did not take place earlier, so that the Polish legislation could start to apply at the same time as the Community regulation. Secondly, the original version of the project established a 14-day period of vacathio legis, which, as we read in the explanatory memorandum, will provide the participants with a reasonable time to read the provisions of the Act. However, in the version of the draft submitted by the Public Finance Commission, the period of vacathio legis was reduced to only 7 days. In our view, this is far too short a time. Given the number and importance of changes made in such an important matter, the entities directly affected by the Act should have time to familiarise themselves with and adapt to the changes. Since the project concerns Customs Law, I would like to refer to the government's planned establishment of the National Tax Administration, which is to be established on the basis of today's customs offices, chambers and tax offices and tax offices. For a long time, Customs officials have been protesting against change, fearing some of the provisions of the draft law on National Tax Administration, e.g. Foreseeing the so-called: the zero option for the formation of the new service staff, which does not give the right to guarantee that the current employment status is maintained. In addition, it looks forward to the execution of the judgment of the Constitutional Court K 39/13 of 3 March 2015 concerning the inclusion of Customs officers in the system so-called. Uniform pensions. At this point, I call for reliable changes to the importance of the draft law on National Tax Administration and, above all, for dialogue with representatives of the Customs Service in order to develop solutions that will serve the effective functioning of the fiscal and customs apparatus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u391	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Bartosz Józwiak, Kukiz Club15, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u392	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I am pleased to present our position with regard to the government draft law amending the Customs Law Act and some other laws. The purpose of the Act is to replace the current Community Customs Code with the Union Customs Code. Both provisions were applied explicitly and the current law is intended to introduce into our legal system regulations allowing for the application of this act. This Code plans to use intervention tools that amend the existing Customs Law, which include: to adapt customs legislation to Union regulation by replacing definitions with others, e.g. the definition of Community law as a definition of Union law, the concept of the European Community as a European Union, including the repeal of provisions incompatible with the new arrangements contained in the Union Customs Code or the adaptation of the names of the institutions of customs law to the Union Customs Code. The main assumptions are the exchange of information - any exchange of information will take place through electronic data transmission and processing techniques; the change of customs procedures - the change of existing terminology and new additional customs procedures; the introduction of new facilitations such as customs self-service, regulation on electronic data exchange, preventing the use of binding tariff information and others. Already at this stage, it can be predicted that the amendment brings many positive elements, but - here it is also necessary to add a spoon to the floor - it may involve creating a number of new problems. For example, the procedure for entering the applicant's register can only be carried out by the trader himself and on his own behalf, possibly in his own name and on behalf of another person, which will make it impossible for a direct representative who is not the applicant to perform the goods of his customers using his permission for a simplified procedure and which has so far been a popular solution. The new definition of exporters, which narrows them down only to entities established in the European Union, will make it impossible, in principle, to accept a customs declaration in the export procedure in which the exporter will be a non-Union entity in trade. The joint and several liability of the direct agent for the amounts of VAT not accounted for by the importer is to be introduced, thus the risk of payment of VAT will also be borne by customs agencies, which could result in a large increase in the cost of customs clearance services in the country, and even in the situation in which Polish companies will perform most of the customs clearances abroad, in other Member States. The Minister of Finance plans to prevent the use of binding tariff information for excise duty purposes in trade in excise goods and passenger cars, which may result in tens of applications for binding excise information, which are intended to replace the abovementioned binding tariff information in the Ministry's plans, as in principle only binding excise information will be a document which will allow taxable persons to effectively secure themselves against attempts to undermine the classification of goods under excise duty. Examples could be multiplied here. All this may lead to the conclusion that the introduction of the Code will nevertheless result in higher import costs and financial and bureaucratic problems for entrepreneurs. So that there are some advantages that have been mentioned in previous speeches, but there are also a number of elements that will cause some difficulties, as a result they will certainly make it difficult for businesses or importers to function. The adaptation of Polish legislation to EU requirements must, of course, be carried out and, for these reasons, the Kukiz club15 will support this project. However, the fact that we need to adapt to EU requirements does not exempt us from the obligation to carefully look at what law and how it is constructed by officials in Brussels. Although the Code itself has been known for a long time, the rules governing its application were published only a few months ago and some of them nevertheless raise some questions of experts. In our view, the rules implementing the EU Customs Code have not only been published too late, but are also very complicated and contain a number of errors that should be corrected. However, in conclusion, I will say that Kukiz15 will vote in favour of these EU requirements and these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u393	Thank you very much, sir. There's one more person to ask. Would any of you like to ask another question? If not, I'm closing the list. I would like to ask Ms Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u394	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question, I do not know whether to the representatives of the Ministry or to the rapporteur. I wanted to ask you about the introduction of the already mentioned joint and several liability for VAT settlement in the tax return, including in the direct representation. There are suggestions and information that this may lead to an increased risk for customs agencies, and there is concern that this will not result in the transfer by Polish importers of checks to other countries. Could I get information, probably summary information, what was included in the information you provided to the finance minister concerned, to those who reported these concerns? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u395	Thank you very much, Member. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Marian Banasi. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u396	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As regards the asked question on joint and several liability for direct representatives for payment of VAT in the case of simplified procedure, I would like to clarify that, first, where imports are covered by certain simplified procedures, importers have the right to account for VAT directly in the tax return, without having to pay it to the customs office and involve funds. Secondly, this privilege should in principle apply to taxable persons authorised to use simplified procedures as it is addressed to reliable importers, verified on the basis of objective criteria, i.e. with authorisations for the use of simplifications. Thirdly, where the taxable importer uses the services of a representative authorised to use simplified procedures, he is not subject to verification for reliability and solvency as he is not the holder of the authorisation to use the simplified procedure, the representative shall be subject to such verification. Fourthly, the direct agent's responsibility for payment of the amount of VAT applies only to direct agents acting in favour of taxable persons who do not have a licence to use simplifications. Fifthly, where the taxable importer uses the services of a direct representative but himself will be the holder of a simplified procedure permit, the taxable person will not be jointly and severally liable for the correct settlement of the amount of VAT in the tax return. Sixth, where the taxable person is not subject to such verification and benefits from the authorisation of a customs representative, the latter should be jointly and severally liable for the settlement of VAT with the taxable person as the holder of the authorisation. Seventhly, the introduction of joint and several liability of direct representatives aligns their situation with indirect representatives who already share the responsibility for VAT clearance today. After eight, the claim that the introduced regulation will lead to customs clearances outside Poland is not allowed. First of all, in the absence of offers from direct representatives, taxable persons will be able to use the services of indirect representatives or apply for authorisation themselves. After the ninth, the legislator does not impose on a representative direct obligations which he cannot fulfil. An indirect representative already has the same responsibilities. After 10 years, the proposed solution aims to seal the VAT collection system and to address irregularities in the settlement of VAT. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u397	Thank you very much, Minister. Does the committee rapporteur still want to speak? [[No.]] Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Taxation on Goods and Services and amending certain other laws (Prints Nos 554 and 639). I ask Mr Andrzej Costowniak to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u398	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Taxation on Goods and Services and amending certain other laws. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very important law that has found its expression or its essence very strong in how it was adopted by the finance committee. I would just like to remind you that the committee unanimously adopted the bill together with the amendments. There were indeed a lot of these amendments, they were presented practically to most of the articles of the project, but, as I said, the draft law itself was adopted unanimously with amendments concerning technical issues, but also editorial and legislative issues. Amendments in Article 1, Article Article 2 and Article 2 2a concerning the introduction of the principles of the Tax Criminal Code or the provisions relating to the Tax Criminal Code in Article. 3, Article 4 and Article 4 5 etc., as I said, adopted unanimously by the entire committee... Together with the amendments, it seems that this law should be implemented as soon as possible, because all those who have tried to enforce it are aware that we are talking about the possibility of stopping fraud on the amount of billions of zlotys from the state budget by very well-organized criminal groups that use legal gaps in order to be able to recover this money improperly or not to contribute it to the state budget.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u399	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Andrzej Costowniak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u400	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will support the bill in its entirety. As I said, it concerns the very sensitive side of our country's income. It seems that the introduction of very clear and strict rules on collection of tax on goods and services, but also excise duties, and the introduction of specific regulations, even in the Energy Law, which further clarify the conditions for trading fuel on the Polish market, will result in much greater tax revenues. Thus, the Law and Justice Club, as I said at the outset, will support the bill above.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u401	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u402	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present its position on the draft law amending the Act on Taxation on Goods and Services and amending certain other laws. In general, the amendments proposed in the draft aim to combat fuel fraud, which is often the case at present. The designer's view of this issue is comprehensive, because the designer sees the need to change the rules of a number of laws, not only tax laws, such as the Goods and Services Tax Act or the Excise Tax Act, and that is undoubtedly plus this regulation. Moreover, in general, this regulation deserves a positive assessment. It is also important to stress that the committee's deliberations were fruitful, although on the other hand it is concerned that they appeared during the committee's process of amendments that go beyond the project's substance. This must be troubling, but we know what the legal significance of this is and what the consequences may be. The Civic Platform Club will propose two amendments to improve the effectiveness of the regulations we are talking about. Firstly, this refers to the amendments in the Energy Law. There's an art in there. Article 33 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 3 (3) states that no concession will be awarded to a person convicted by a final judgment for a criminal offence or tax offence relating to the subject-matter of an economic activity covered by the Act. We believe that these frauds cannot be limited only to offences and tax offences related to the subject-matter of the economic activity covered by the Act and thus covered by the Energy Law, we believe that these frauds will be more effectively eliminated if the conviction as a criminal offence or a tax offence related to the business activity in another industry will rule out the possibility of obtaining concessions. Because you can't grant these concessions to people who have been convicted of a criminal offence in connection with their business, but it wasn't in the industry. The second amendment concerns the excise duty law, the new paragraph. 9a. Such fiction shall be adopted there that the indication of the tax identification number preceded by the PL code makes it considered that the conditions referred to in another provision are fulfilled. In other words, it is considered that the purchaser is established in the territory of the country and acquires fuel for the purpose of doing business in the territory of the country or has a branch established in the territory of the country under the conditions and rules laid down in the Law on the Freedom of Economic Activity and acquires fuel for the purpose of carrying out that activity. In our view, this would weaken the impact of regulation. Why? Because it is possible to have a tax identification number preceded by a PL code, even if you do not have a registered office or a branch in Poland. That is why we propose a second amendment. Both amendments allow me to pass on your marshal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u403	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Grzegorz Długi, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u404	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I inform those who worked hard during the match that Poland won, and those who want to continue their work, I will allow me to present the position of the Kukiz club15 in relation to the amendment of these laws. This is where the positive side of this is, as Professor said just now, that it was an agreement between probably all the political forces in this Parliament. That's where we should go. That doesn't mean that there's total agreement, because that only applies to one fragment. We hope that this is an element of a larger whole in the fight against pathologies associated with extortion, among others. VAT fraud. I think all political forces agree that this must be fought as quickly as possible. However, there are also some problems here. Two of my previous speakers have already mentioned it. We will support both these amendments warmly, they are right and right. I suggest immediately that where we talk about this issue of impunity... According to our club, we should go as far as possible. This provision should read, Art. Article 33 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 3 should say that this applies to persons convicted by a final judgment for an intentional offence on a private charge, and I apologize, on a public charge. This is a very broad category, but we are talking about such important things, about the important interests of the state, that people punished simply in this way should not participate in such sensitive parts of our activity at all. The second amendment you spoke about is, in my opinion, an editorial issue. During the committee's deliberations, the Ministry's representative pointed out that this understanding was the same, but the wording did not agree with that understanding. I therefore think that it will not be a problem to accept this amendment to make sure that both the understanding of the Ministry, the Government and the Sejm, at this point in time Members, is identical. It should be made clear that all these elements referred to in this provision are to be understood jointly. It is not possible to circumvent this by having a number from PL from others, so to speak, sources or reasons. We have some problems, I'll admit, with accepting that in this law, in this bill we smuggle, maybe it's a bad word, but we've also placed a criminal issue at a certain stage. It's not good that we want to change the tax code this way. As for the direction of absolute agreement, it should be changed. We are in favour of people who are violating this sphere being punished in a decisive, fast way, while it is necessary to proceed slightly differently. This should be a separate way where we change the code. We change the codes, which is also apparent from the laws and regulations, in a different way. And we need to make sure that the criminal tax code changes in this direction as soon as possible, even in this sound, but in the right mode, not as little by chance as we do here. Many times in this room everyone emphasized that the law created on the knee later shows its bad side. So let's not make laws on our knees. I am sure that all groups, all clubs are able to concentrate to make very quickly changes that are going in this direction, but in the right mode. This causes us to have a problem, because on the one hand we strongly support these changes, and on the other hand we would like these changes in criminal law to be carried out in the right way. If this cannot be changed yet, we will, of course, support this law, because this is a requirement, it is a matter of the right of the state, I will be honest with you. This is a matter of the state's right. Tax fraud will destroy this country if we do not counteract it. We will therefore support this, but here we are appealing to try these criminal changes in an appropriate way. Thank you, High Sejm. I almost told the High Court, I don't know why. [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u405	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u406	Dear Marshal! Minister! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! On behalf of the Poselski Club Modern I have the honour to present the position of the club vis-à-vis the Act amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and amending certain other laws. There is no doubt that the legislative action so far to seal the collection system for goods and services was insufficient, in particular as regards fuel trading. The Modern Posel Club notes the justification for the procedinated submission of a criminal offence related to the fraud of taxes on goods and services in the trading of fuels and will support any action to eliminate or limit this practice. This submission provides for the introduction of a sealing of the collection of tax on goods and services by synchronising the provisions in force under the Goods and Services Tax Act and on excise duties. It introduces the definition of the taxable person and the registered consignee in the Goods and Services Tax Act, which, in conjunction with the payer's institution for the intra-Community acquisition of goods constituting motor fuels under suspension of excise duty, as well as the obligation for the taxpayer to pay within a short period of time, as a 5-day tax for intra-Community transactions in motor fuels within the meaning of the Excise Tax Act, provides a favourable solution. It is useful to assess whether a single tax authority is subject to both the clearance of excise duties and the tax on goods and services for the intra-Community acquisition of motor fuels. This will allow for a much faster flow of information and can thus allow for more effective action to address irregularities. A comprehensive approach and introduction of a number of statutory amendments, which the Professor has already mentioned, also deserves attention. This will allow for sealing properly the entire licensing system for the trading of liquid fuels with abroad, but with this remark that in this respect there has been even some overregulation in our assessment. The mere complexity of administrative procedures, as the practice points out, is an obstacle to the activity of a fair taxpayer, and it is not a dam for criminals. Undoubtedly, a tight law is needed, but even the best rules will not replace the need to step up cooperation between the services under the Finance Minister and the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Police in order to focus the activities of the services on the detection of tax fraud organisers, as requested inter alia. The Supreme Board of Control. This law is a government submission, hence the number of amendments made during the work of the Committee on Public Finance is surprising as much quantitatively as qualitatively, Minister. This would indicate that the proposals for change are not fully thought out by the government and that the government is acting under pressure of time, which unfortunately does not serve to create good law. It is certainly unacceptable to introduce in violation of the constitutional principle of three readings to present amendments to the Tax Code Act. That's actually a problem. I hope that it will be resolved in a short time, because I also declare that this is the only obstacle that does not allow us to vote in favour of this law with a clear conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u407	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to ask Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u408	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I present my position on the report of the committee on the draft law amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and amending certain other laws, print Nos 554 and 639. Following an in-depth analysis of the project, the Committee on Public Finance has taken a number of amendments into account and has tabled a draft from print No 639 to the High House. The aim of the project is to prevent VAT fraud in intra-Community trade in liquid fuels and to reduce the negative impact on the functioning of the liquid fuel market. I would like to remind you that now the intra-Community acquisition of liquid fuels does not result in the payment of VAT, and the tax is only subject to its resale in Poland. And that's what caused it. It gave us an opportunity to abuse it. The Act introduces such regulations as to make the buyers of these fuels, including tax warehouses and registered customers, taxable persons of VAT, and this obligation will arise within 5 days. The project also provides for amendments to the Energy Law Act, among others. by increasing licensing requirements as well as increasing the powers of the President of the Energy Regulatory Office to examine the reliability of licence applicants. The project assumes that concessions for the trading of fuels with foreign countries will only be granted to entities established in Poland or foreign companies that have registered a branch in our country and will introduce liquid fuels into Poland through it. This makes it possible to link the obligation to license the trading of liquid fuels with the status of the taxable person of VAT, as well as to increase the supervision by the State. The Polish People's Party has not raised any comments or objections about the purpose of the project since the beginning. However, we had comments on how to proceed: quickly, without consultation, and even, as I remember, without inter-ministerial arrangements. Indeed, during the work of the committee, this was clearly the case. The Legislative Office made very, very many comments, of course of a legislative and editorial nature, but there were a lot of them. The Commission took them into account in the project under consideration. On the other hand, the substantive amendments included in the proposal are a change of the deadline e.g. the existence of a tax obligation - now that the amendment has been adopted it will be within 5 days of the date on which these goods are introduced into the tax warehouse - as well as simplifying the billing of the tax to be paid. The taxpayer will not have to have information about the value of the transactions and other tax elements, and the tax calculation will be made in a simple way on the basis of the amount of fuel accepted and the price announced in the Public Information Bulletin of the Ministry of Finance. The changes to the Energy Law oblige the concession holders to inform the President of the URE of all agreements in this respect, not just those notified during the concession. The consequence of this amendment is also the amendment to the oil stock law. It concerns checks on the maintenance of compulsory stocks. Adding the Regulation Article. 5a will allow tax warehouses and registered customers to provide services to entities which, on the date of entry into force of the Act, and I will remind you that this is August 1, so soon, do not meet the requirements for having a seat or a branch in the territory of the country and registration for VAT purposes. This supplement will have to be completed within 2 months. Among the amendments tabled, the amendment concerning amendments to the Tax Code Act - each of you has already pointed this out - which introduces solutions for criminal sanctions. Irregularity concerns the submission of these amendments only at the stage of the committee's work. These are quite important changes. They go beyond the original project. They were not discussed or analysed during the legislative process during the so-called. First reading. In general, however, I would like to say, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that the club of the Polish People's Party will support the bill in question, including the amendments that my previous speakers discussed and which we consider reasonable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u409	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Ireneusz Gaina, the Free and Solidarnia Members' Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u410	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the report of the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services and amending certain other laws. Members of the Free and Solidarnia wheels will support any action to combat irregularities and fraud in the collection of VAT in intra-Community trade. The proposed amendments to the Act aim to seal the tax system only in the field of liquid fuel trading. Whether and how effective they will be, will show the time and invention of frauds. At this point it is worth recalling that the VAT gap for liquid fuel trading brings losses to the Treasury - such are estimates - from PLN 2.5 billion to PLN 5 billion, which represents around 10% losses caused by the VAT gap for intra-Community trade in all goods. Much more damage to the Treasury generates trade in scrap metal and non-ferrous metals, trade in the steel sector, trade in advanced electronics, food products, construction and transport services. Poland is at the forefront of the State Treasury's losses in this respect, and we should therefore, as a member of the European Union, take action within the Community to regulate the systemic issues of VAT fraud and intra-Community trade in the European Union. It can be said that the lack of comprehensive handling of the matter in the European Union and in all sectors of the economy will result in the transfer of tax irregularities mechanisms to other sectors and will not address the problem. However, it should be noted that the Government of the Republic of Poland, when taking corrective action in this area, has prepared a bill worthy of support. Members of the Free and Solidarni Circle will support the draft law on amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and on amending certain other laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u411	Thank you very much, sir. Two people signed up for the questions. Anybody else want to come in? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question will be asked by Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u412	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister. What is it really for, Minister, to push these changes into the tax code bill? I think you are fully aware that the non-constitutional introduction of these amendments to the Act will later result in numerous repercussions, among others. the release of these crimes from criminal liability for these acts. So that I ask, Minister, with an appeal to withdraw this 2a from this amendment, and then with a clear conscience the club Modern will support this project in its entirety, because really this project is [[Applause]] worthy of support, because the case itself is very important, I think for all Poles and Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u413	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u414	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! One of the biggest tax problems in the European Union is fraud on value added tax. These are billions of euros, probably over 150 billion euros today. Poland also has huge problems with this. In order to see these proportions in the right way, we must remember that this law, which we all appreciate positively, concerns only fuel fraud, while it does not cover other areas of the commodity tax. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and services. I therefore have a question: What and when are the next steps planned to improve the situation of collecting tax on goods and services? When the full concept referred to here is ready, the concept... [[Comprehensive.]] ...system covering even the whole of this tax? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u415	Thank you very much, sir. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Mr Wiesław Jasiński will answer the questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u416	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! At first, I would like to thank all of you - at this late hour - for the whole day and for the time devoted to the fuel package, because that is what we called it. Thank you very much for the extremely substantive discussion. I would also like to thank most of you very much for your interest in the issue of extortion of VAT refunds or all crimes related to the abuse of the construction of the tax on goods and services, e.g. discussion of the NIK report on fictional invoices. I would like to thank you, sir, in particular. I had the opportunity to observe this discussion in the media. Thank you so much for your commitment. Like you at the moment, I consider this to be one of the most important issues for the Republic of Poland and its financial condition. I will answer the questions, first of all, to the accusations of the Member. Well, if we use the Professor's position, we're talking about a certain restriction that the Professor proposes, although it only applies to tax offences there, but it actually applies as a negative condition for licensing. And as far as that goes, we should totally agree, but this is an example of this attitude. On the other hand, the Member challenges the question of the validity of the tax penal provision. In general, we're heading towards... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I see. In general, we are moving towards extending, above all, sanctions on VAT offences. [[Just procedure.]] I know that the Member is talking about the procedure, and I, if you don't mind, will only refer to it in substance. We are moving towards tightening sanctions, introducing a new type of offences and offences in the Tax Code and the work is completed. Besides, it's been a long time since there's been any change in the tax code. If we do not even introduce these tax criminal rules into this package, such legislation should be an additional guarantee of all the obligations that you support in this law. To answer the Professor's question - this is a very good point, I thank you for this question, because this is a sign of concern for the wide sealing of the tax system - we are doing work at the Ministry of Finance on two-track at the moment. Namely we are working on, actually they are already finished, is only a matter of opinion by the management of the Ministry of Finance. The staff of the relevant departments, which we call appropriate for the construction of tax law, in particular tax law, have prepared changes in the scope of the tax on goods and services. I'm not gonna be revealing the rules we're talking about right now, Professor. The second point, the second track, the second method of procession is related to the fuel package. It was positively received by you, and we therefore decided a few weeks ago, in anticipation of your attitude today, to set up appropriate teams. They are already in operation, exactly six, and they will present to you the appropriate draft regulations for the proceedings in the Sejm, as well as for the organizational arrangements. I'll name these teams: electronics team rape oil, team tobacco, syndrome Alcohol, syndrome seals of the construction sector. The appropriate packages will be prepared and presented to you for the procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u417	Thank you very much, Minister. Does the committee rapporteur still want to speak? Thank you very much. [[Your marshal, in corrigendum mode.]] But you weren't... [[Only two sentences.]] Please, due to the score of the game. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u418	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have not questioned the very principle of amending the Tax Criminal Code, and my concern is merely the procedure for introducing these amendments... [[Way.]] ...which is incompatible with the constitution. That's a point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u419	Thank you very much. Very briefly indeed. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 21 June this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you like to come in? If not, I'm closing the list. Mrs Teresa Nolas, Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u420	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Today's parliamentary statement is one big appeal to the Minister of Culture and National Heritage for a rescue for monuments in the municipality of Izbica in the district of Krasnostawski. Rescue in a literal sense - it is about the renovation of damaged objects - as well as the rescue of the introduction of strong laws that clearly and decisively straighten out issues related to proper conservation supervision of monuments. Ladies and gentlemen! On 15 June of this year, on my initiative and on the initiative of the inhabitants of Orlov and the surrounding area, a substantive meeting was held with Lublin Voivodeship, conservation supervision and representatives of local governments, the commune of Izbica and the city of Krasnystaw. At the meeting we presented the problem of the progressive degradation of historical objects in the villages of Eagles Murwany and Uncles, trying to develop a strategy of action against the facts. The words spoken by the voivodship monument conservator in Lublin Dariusz Kopciowski, quote: I have never seen a monument destroyed so badly in such a short time, should be accepted as an urgent need to save the monument. Our relationship with the palace in Orłów is an example of the beautiful attitude of the then owner of the land goods of Orlov and Sobieszyn Count Kajetan Kicki, who, when dying on June 21, 1878, offered these goods as a gift for the noble social purposes of the Association of Agricultural Villages. Until World War II, the company as a legal person managed the estate in an appropriate manner. After the war under the decree of PKWN the estate was nationalized, the palace-park complex in Orłów became the property of the State Treasury. In the main palace there was a school, in the offices - health center and post office. Therefore, the team remained public in line with the tester's record. In the 1990s, the estate under the communalization carried out by Zamość Voivodeship became the property of the commune in Izbica. In 2006 it was unfortunately sold by the municipality of the Italian municipality to Giordani, which Daniel Richard Polanczyk, a man with an English passport, Polish roots, lived permanently in Italy, was to bring an offer from the Somali government to Lublin. He had, but to this day he merely provided the buildings with empty buildings and their progressing degradation. For a long time now, he has announced that these goods are for sale, but the price determined is the double value of what he bought them for. What business did the municipality make on this transaction? I don't think so. Thus, the story of the life of the Count, the great philanthropist, and his wealth is like an old drawer of beauty and a sad fairy tale that really happened, typing a trace into our national heritage. And national heritage is the work of previous generations, a resource of material and intangible things, a resource of spiritual and moral values. The object I am talking about is not only a national heritage in a material sense, it is a national heritage in the sense of human behaviour and attitude, which was an exception in terms of the preservation of the Polish land, because all the collected goods were transferred for social purposes. It is therefore a value that should be specifically cared for and protected from the passing of time. Today we are fighting for this value as a society in a special way connected with this historic, wonderful place. Our appeal is one of the forms of struggle, a search for a good host, and it is also an appeal to the Polish Government to develop a national programme for the protection of monuments protected by relevant legislation and a programme of responsible funding. As a Polish country, we must make this effort for the social good, it is a duty to past and future generations, otherwise we will lose many such palaces and other cultural goods, becoming the same people irresponsible to history. From this point on, I would like to thank all those who, in a selfless way, inspire us to work to save this monument. The inspiration in itself is the history of this place, the motivation and attitude of Kajetan Count Kicki. Maybe that's how we'll find a potential investor for this palace-park team. I firmly believe that, with the help of many of you and the national heritage department, this undertaking will find its positive outcome, and we will soon be very pleased to say how it was in this fairy tale: and then they lived happily ever after. [[♪ The bell ♪]] - which I wish with all my heart. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u421	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Jack Kurzepa, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u422	Mrs. Marshal! Colleagues of Parliamentaries! Young representatives of youth city councils who, I hope, will be watching this broadcast. A second Parliamentary Group meeting was held today. Supporting Youth Councils in the Units of the Territorial Self-Government. I would like to thank the participants of this meeting, parliamentarians and parliamentarians, who, despite the match, wanted to come to this meeting and, above all, thank the young people from the Polish Council of Youth Organisations, from the youth councils of the cities who participated in our meeting. The meeting was important, because we accepted the work plan of our team for the next three years. It so happens that our thinking about dialogue with the young generation is extended over time, because I feel that such thinking and such proceding give the basis for a solid dialogue and an effective change of the reality of the young generation in Poland. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that a philosophy of our team is above all to value existing youth advice and those young people who are involved in it. Developing new legislative solutions for setting up youth councils at different levels of local self-government units and what is the main problem of their operation, namely funding them. I think that the next task that this team should carry out is to promote the idea of civic activity among the young generation of Poles. In recent days, I had the most fun to participate in the decade of the Lublin Youth Council. Ladies and gentlemen, in such a tasty emotional and high culture of a personal meeting of many generations, where the hosts, the main narrators, the creators of this event were themselves young people, and it has been a long time since I had the opportunity to participate. So I thank the City Council of Lublin, Kacpr Szymczak, who is the current chairman of this council, but also all of his predecessors and predecessors in this position, that they can conduct adults in such a beautiful way in dialogue with you young people. At the same time, I congratulate the local authorities, the Marshal, the Lublin voivodeship authorities, the voivodeship, the curator, the Lublin city authorities, the Lublin City Council, on giving the young people the good news, because they show it. They're smart, they're resolute, they're responsible. Allow me two impressions that I'm extracting from this meeting. The first one concerns the sensitivity of a young man to the world that surrounds him. The Lublin Youth Council has announced its awards. Among the nominated and rewarded were adults - educators, teachers, instructors, athletes, living and those who left. One of the nominees and award-winning, teacher of many generations of young lylanin, was fetched with standing applause. I saw her wailing, I saw her eyes tearing, and then she wanted to say a few words to us, she had noodles in her mouth, she couldn't say anything. The thrill and happiness of the teacher that young people can thank so much. And the second story - a swim coach who's already died, a young woman. They remember her and thank her. And I thank you for this meeting, and I'm glad you guys are who you are. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u423	Thank you very much. And I would like to ask Mr Zbigniew Biernat, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u424	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My statement as a resident of the Oświęcim district concerns the National Remembrance Day of the Victims of German Nazi Concentration Camps and Holocaust Camps. This day was adopted on 8 June 2006 by the Sejm of the Republic of Poland on the 66th anniversary of the arrival of the first mass transport of prisoners to the Auschwitz concentration camp. On June 14, he was chosen to commemorate the victims imprisoned and killed in concentration camps and extermination camps during World War II. On that day 76 years ago, the first transport of prisoners arrived at the newly established German Auschwitz concentration camp from the prison in Tarnów. He counted 728 men, most of whom were Polish political prisoners. Among them were soldiers of the September campaign, members of underground independence organizations, middle school students and students, as well as a small group of Polish Jews. They came mainly from southern Poland. Of these 728 prisoners deported from Tarnów to Auschwitz, 298 survived the war. It is worth recalling at this point that, according to estimates, in 1940-1945, the Nazis imprisoned about 150 thousand in Auschwitz. Poles. They were the second largest group of prisoners of this camp right after the Jews. At least half of these people died in Auschwitz or immediately after being transferred to other concentration camps. I would stress that in total more than one million people, including men, women and children, died in the Auschwitz concentration camp. 14 June 1940 is therefore a symbol of the beginning of the extermination of certain nations, especially Jews and Poles, planned by the German Nazis. Tarnowski's transport was the first to have a distinct mass character. It is worth noting that the National Remembrance Day of the Victims of German Nazi Concentration Camps and Holocaust Camps reminds and symbolizes above all millions of victims who lost their lives in German camps, and our fellow countrymen were among them. This year we celebrate the 10th anniversary of establishing a national commemoration day for the victims of German Nazi concentration camps. For this reason, let me remind you how important it is for the state and local authorities to take initiatives to commemorate the victims of World War II, in particular the Nazi German concentration camps and extermination camps. It is worth to emphasize the Polish contribution to the fight against the German ideology of national socialism and to the dedication of historical truth of the real nature of the camps and the crimes committed in them. This is also to remind young generations of historical facts, which are crucial to our nation and yet so often forgotten. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u425	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Bernadet Krynicka, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u426	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! From 8 to 11 June this year. took place in Łomża 29. International Theatre Festival Suitcase, festival of theatre and art. International Theatre Festival The suitcase is an important and valued cultural project of high artistic and promotional importance in Poland and abroad. The festival has grown and evolved over 29 years. It has a large audience and has secured the place of one of the most important, recognizable theatre festivals in Poland. He also gained numerous friends and support, especially from the Minister of Culture and National Heritage, the Podlaskie Marshal's Office, the Municipal Office in Łomża, NGOs. Although it is organized in a city away from cultural centers, the Suitcase Festival is appreciated in the world by form theatres, puppet theaters, performance bands. The festival became the brand of Lomza. It focuses excellent performances, both those classic, cultivating traditional puppet art, as well as those innovative, creating new values and seeking original means of artistic expression. The tension of the festival is built by a courageous combination of qualified performances, the production of new theatrical ideas and alternative artistic projects, the realisation of off-festival activities in various urban spaces and its friendliness to spectators. The International Theatre Festival The suitcase has been held annually since 1987 and has so far hosted more than 270 theatres from 50 countries, among others. from Argentina, the United States, Japan, Singapore, China, Israel, Norway, Italy, Spain, Russia, Croatia, Germany, Serbia, Iran and others, along with dozens of visitors from around the world and thousands of viewers. It is organized by the Łomżyński Doll and Actor Theatre with the support of the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, the municipal office, the Management Board of Podlaskie Voivodeship, cultural institutions and NGOs. The festival is noticed by personalities and authorities from the world of culture. A lot of publications and reviews were published in the national and foreign press. With each edition it increases its rank and reach and is an evolving phenomenon. An important task of the event is to promote theatre culture, exchange experiences, show the most valuable performances, support young stage talents and bring different cultures closer together by bringing artists together. The festival is also an important event, which is a showcase of the city and the country. His rank and prestige are borne out by people and institutions who include the event with an honorary patronage. In the current edition it was the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, the Polish senator Anna Maria Anders and the president of the city of Łomża Mr Mariusz Chrzanowski. This year's festival is an overview of human condition. Invited theatres in their performances reach to fairy tales and myths, touch situations difficult in human life, choices - sometimes tragic - propose theater of facts, the theatre of form, the theatre involved, who dreams of a better human life, the theatre of dialogue and partnership. However, the idea remains unchanged - it is supposed to be a festival of portative performances, which is designed to create a friendly space for discussion and exchange of creative experiences between creators. Among those invited to the festival were 14 competition performances selected from over 100 entries from 27 countries. The competition programme included the latest performances performed in Polish and foreign theatres, among others. from Israel, Spain, the Netherlands, Ukraine, Italy, Slovenia, Portugal etc. An integral part of the review is the open-air, interdisciplinary trend of my city, where interesting non-competition events could be seen every day. An important element of this year's program was the work and personality of Adam Kilian, an outstanding Polish stage designer. A promotion was made for the monograph album "Adam Kilian." Fascination and exhibition of dolls, designs, posters by Adam Kilian in the Arkady Gallery in Łomża were held. Each festival event is an incentive to discuss the search for identity, ideas, values, what should be important in contemporary theatre. The Doll and Actor Theatre in Łomża wants to break stereotypes about the perception of doll theatre in the social environment, because its role in building intergenerational dialogue is becoming increasingly clear. Undoubtedly, doll theatre is an artistic phenomenon, and its voice is increasingly expressive. And this kind of theatre was promoted during the 29th edition. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u427	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Simon Giżyński, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u428	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Salvadore Dali believed that a sculpture could be required at least not to move. It is a pity that the messengers of modern Mr.Peter cannot be turned into sculptures even during the session of the Sejm, because on the one hand they would not speak, and on the other hand they are worthy of chiseling the greatest masters: Gianlorenz Bernini, Antonio Canova or Etienne Maurice Falconet. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u429	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Waldemar Andzel, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u430	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Law and Justice keep promises made to Poles during the election campaign, fulfilling them conscientiously point by point. This is proved by the successful implementation of the 500+ family programme, which is a huge success of the governing camp. Now that Polish families receive solid financial support from the state, which gives them a sense of security and stability, the Government of Law and Justice focuses on solving another problem faced by Poles. Here we are talking about a difficult housing situation, for which the cure will be announced recently by Prime Minister Beata Szydło, the program of living+. Many young people postpone their decision to move out of their home and become independent. This is because the rental market in Poland is not functioning properly for the time being. We are also dealing with a housing deficit. To pay for the dreamed own M high price, Poles often opt for expensive long-term loans. However, the phantom of the need to repay a huge loan for 20 and 30 years may deprive families of their sense of security, so necessary in their daily operation. A comprehensive solution to the housing problems of Poles is the above-mentioned program of living +. It provides for the possibility of funding local governments in the construction of apartments and the support of citizens in raising savings on specially created individual housing accounts. The most important, however, is the solution that Poles have been waiting for for a long time. Namely on the land belonging to the State Treasury thanks to the program will create apartments, in which case the rent will be much lower than the market. For those who dream of their own so-called. four angles, the possibility of buying the premises on very favourable terms. The condition will only be the passage of time by which a person will pay higher rent. Young people who want to start their own families, as well as those who already have their offspring, will no longer be able to spread the spectrum of long-term credit. The order of award of these premises will depend on the fulfilment of certain criteria. However, we must remember that, as the Prime Minister said during her speech, this will only affect the waiting time. The Living+ programme is open to all Poles and responds to the need for anyone who is not able to rent or acquire their own place on their own for the time being, without State aid. Gradually put into effect the "Housing+" programme, as well as the successful implementation of the "Family 500+" programme, are expressions of the need for adequate effort, goodwill and listening to their needs to make changes that citizens expect. As a result, comprehensive solutions can be implemented in every area of life. The actions taken by the Law and Justice are therefore nothing more than the result of commitment and determined efforts, which aim to support all Polish families, increase the standard of living of our country's inhabitants and thus improve the demographic situation. It was for these reasons that Poles trusted the parties Law and Justice, and their trust was not and will not be disappointed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u431	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u432	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On the last Sunday, 19 June 2016, in Janowiec, a village located in the Puławy district of Lublin Voivodeship, and Zwolenie, a county town in the Mazowieckie Voivodeship, there were celebrations commemorating the tragic events of 19 June 1944, when German invaders shot 41 people - members of the Home Army from Janowiec and Zwolen. On that day, the town was surrounded by police cordon, the residents were spent, the convicts brought in, previously captured in actions organized by the occupier and imprisoned in prison, brought to the wall of death and executed - surrounded by families, loved ones and acquaintances. The memory of the murdered was celebrated in Janowiec at Holy Mass in the parish church of St. Margaret and St. Stanisława. After the mass there was a laying of flower ties and inflammation of the bloom under a plaque placed on the walls of the church, commemorating among others. murdered members of the AK Janowiec facility. In the Call after the Holy Mass in the Church of the Exaltation of the Holy Cross, the marching column composed of participants of celebrations, banner postcards, representatives of the World Union of National Army Soldiers, the Polish Member, local authorities Zwolenia and Janowiec and the Zvolen district, ZHR scouts and students, residents of Zvolenia and surrounding areas and Janowiec, including family members of the murdered AK soldiers, passed to the National Memorial. The element of the monument is the wall of death, under which the murdered academy were killed. They were worshipped there, flower bundles were laid, and candles were lit in honor of the murdered. A further part of the ceremony took place at the parish cemetery at the murdered quarters, where a plaque commemorating six commanders of the Polish Home Army, and then the most active members of the World Union of National Army Soldiers, were presented with commemorative decorations for the merits of the World Army of Home Army Soldiers, headed by the chief initiator of the ceremony, Ms. Irena Kwapisiewicz. The inscription on the monument in honor of the murdered says: "He who has loved his people and freedom will not hesitate to sacrifice his life. Yeah, the memory of the murdered won't die. I personally worship them from this place as a resident of Janowiec, for whom the loss of my 20 citizens - soldiers of the Home Army has been a great trauma over the years. In addition, as unfortunately happened throughout the country after 1945, they were erased from memory, from the history cards, in this place creating the heroes of communist proverenity. Let my voice from the speaker of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland be at least a symbolic compensation for the harm suffered by their families. Part of the memory of the murdered on 19 June 1944 in the Call of the National Army soldiers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u433	Thank you very much, sir. And I invite Catherine Chechara, the Law and Justice Club. There is no Member. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u434	Declaration on an increase in the amount reducing personal income tax, i.e. the so-called. the amount of the free, at the same time rationalising the tasks of local government units in terms of better management of revenue, grants and expenditure. High Izbo! In 2003, there was an increase in the level of decentralisation of public finances, the scope of the local authorities' competences increased significantly. When limiting corporate tax income (CIT) and individuals tax (PIT) lose the most local governments poorer (areas, municipalities and cities on the rights of the county) where poor or non-profitable citizens live. I hope that the tax-free amount will be increased. And it has to be done for Poles. I have an appeal to the government to take over some of the tasks, even in such sensitive health care. The expenditure of local government units (JSTs) is increasing, the capacity of local authorities to use grants is decreasing, there is a reduction in investment and there is a risk of fulfilling their own tasks. Without parliamentary consensus, only large and economically strong regions will survive, e.g. the localities where the successful bets are located, and the residents are employees. The provisions of the Act on Income Tax on Individuals setting a tax-free amount of PLN 3089 are incompatible with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland and are repealed on 30 November 2016 - as the Constitutional Tribunal stated. The provisions do not provide for a mechanism to correct the tax reduction amount, so that the minimum existence is not guaranteed. The proposal of the Rural Union of the Republic of Poland of 23 December 2015, which concerns the amendment of the income law of JST, should be cited as follows: "The share of JST in PIT tax should be increased accordingly or part of the revenue of the state budget from indirect taxes, such as tax on goods and services (VAT) or excise duty, should be transferred to the extent that it compensates for the planned loss of revenue. A similar position is adopted by the Polish Towns Association on 11 December 2015, but also adds: "Of course, other forms of compensation are also acceptable: reducing some of the financial burden of the JST or the scope of their tasks, but they have not been proposed. The Silesian Association of Municipalities and Districts in its position of 27 November 2015 indicates that new tasks are being imposed on local governments, and that funding sources are required to be provided for the smooth implementation of them: The system of subsidies and financing for local governments should be reformed to ensure diversification of the revenue sources of local government units, including by granting a share of VAT to the JST, which would ensure greater stability of the income of the JST and reduce the impact of business cycles on their revenues.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-21-sejm-21-1.u435	I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. by 22 June this year, no later than 3 p.m. 9. Thank you. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 22 min 47]]
