ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u1	Resume session. I would like to appoint Catherine Osos, Krystian Jarubas, Arkadiusz Myrcha and Krzysztof Truskolas as secretaries of today's proceedings. The first part of the session will be Mr Jarubas and Mr Truskolaski. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Katarzyna Osos and Krystian Jarubas. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u2	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Administration and Home Affairs together with the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development - h.m. 9, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 9.15, - Rules of Procedure and Parliamentary Affairs, together with the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, at 3 p.m. 9.15, - Public Finances together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 10, - National Defense at 5 p.m. 10, - to the Secret Service, at 5 p.m. 11, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 11, - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 11, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 11, - Legal notice - hour. 11, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 12, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 12, - Extraordinary for changes in codification - hour. 12, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12.30, - Economy and Development - h.m. 14, - Culture and Media - hour 14, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 14, - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 15, - Education, Science and Youth - hour 15, - Public Finance - hour. 15, - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 15, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 16, - National and Ethnic Minorities - hour. 16, - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 4:30 p.m., - Foreign Affairs - hour 17, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 17, - Infrastructure - hour 18. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: Crafts and Vocational Education - hour 9.30 a.m., - Parliamentary Renewable Energy Team - h.m. 11, - Parliamentary Team for Supporting Entrepreneurship and Economic Patriotism - h.m. 11.30, - Parliamentary Team of Tradition and Remembrance of Cursed Soldiers - hour. 12, - Parliamentary Group for: Regulation of Property Relations - h. 13, - Parliamentary Group for: Patients' rights - hour 13, - Parliamentary Group for: Organisation for Health Protection - h.m. 14, - The Members' Team for the New Constitution - at 5 p.m. 15, - Parliamentary Group for: Integrated Multidisciplinary System of Prevention, Diagnostics and Treatment of Cancer Diseases in Western Poland - hour. 16, - Parliamentary Animal Friends Team - h.m. 17, - Parliamentary Group for: Polish cities - hour 17. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u3	The committee responsible has submitted a report on government draft laws on: - amending the Investment Funds Act and certain other laws, - amendment of the Act on Public Offering and Conditions of Introduction of Financial Instruments to Organized Trading, and on Public Companies and Certain Other Acts. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, Marshal of the Sejm, decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. I propose that the Sejm listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs in the discussion on this item. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The committee responsible submitted a report on the draft resolution submitted by the Sejm Bureau on the establishment of 2016 by the Year of Polish-Hungarian Solidarity. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs. If I don't hear any objections, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the adoption of the Senate on the Law on the re-use of public sector information. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95f of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, Marshal of the Sejm, decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. I propose that the Sejm listen to three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs in the discussion on this item. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering additional questions. I would like to ask you the question of Krystyna Skowronska and Kazimierz Plocke from the Civic Platform. As the first Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u4	Thank you, Marshal. I have a question for the Minister of Agriculture. Minister, 2/3 of farmers have not received direct payments so far, and the time for field work has already begun. Here it is the start and purchase of fertilisers, as well as agricultural work, and the direct payments of the farm do not receive. What about these farmers? How do you treat them? Until the end of December, direct payments have been made to farmers. It is said that there is a draft regulation on subsidies and the possibility for farmers to borrow for which interest will pay the budget. It's supposed to be about PLN 300 million. The Plan of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture specifies subsidies for these old loans - an amount of 257 million, loans for the resumption of production - 25 million, and other types of loans. However, there is no such position in the financial plan of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture, which refers to subsidies or interest payments for farmers in the event of borrowing for direct payments. We are aware that you are implementing a new IT system for the handling of direct payments, but this is the way of dealing with, the lack of ensuring this operation or the implementation of the system, you are putting 2/3 of farmers at risk of such situations that if they do not have the credit capacity, they will not be able to receive such a credit, even if they have the right to make direct payments. Besides, it's time and time for farmers. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Question. When will farmers receive direct payments?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u5	Thank you. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Mr Ryszard Zarudzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I'd like to respond as quickly and as efficiently as possible. Farmers receive direct payments, with a timetable agreed, with the situation we have found, and please give me the opportunity to respond. As far as the situation is concerned, I would very much like to send a letter from August, where it is very clear to the Minister of Agriculture at that time that the system is delayed, that the system does not function, that there are a lot of arrears and there will be problems with payment. What we found in November when we came to the Ministry of Agriculture was beyond our expectations, but I think the wrong information is not the most important issue. The most important message I would like to give is that at present 60% farmers, 800,000, received PLN 6 billion, received direct subsidies for PLN 6 billion. 60% farmers. This is information directly to be confirmed, because we also draw information and pass it on to the European Commission. 800,000. at 1300 thousand. I don't know how this information was given before. When it comes to division into voivodships, 52 to 68% in voivodships, but we found this situation, in the sense of a non-functioning system, lack of supervision. On November 18th, the official letter came from the company that the system would not be operational on December 1. There's no way to build a system in two weeks, there's no way in two weeks. I would like to remind you that the system, the new payment system, has been well aware of what it will be like since 2013. I can honestly say that I am surprised by this question and this information, the more that it contradicts existing facts that are quite the opposite. And that's the first thing. The second thing is that the timetable for payment to farmers by 30 June is also not at risk. I can give you another number that might be... 4.5 billion we'll pay out February-March, 3 billion - April-May, 1 billion - June. In connection with the procedure and the difficulties... Here's a big thank-you to President Obajtek, to the agency, to all the staff of people, to the ants that work, also in the county offices, to run it. Of course, we will not pay out earlier, which was not decreed by us in the campaign, that it will be earlier and that first we will pay out a large one, because the system did not allow it this year. So these are the facts. Those are facts, I think it's hard to make these facts... You could say this: we've done audits, we've done reviews. We can say that we are doing this from our point of view, but it is difficult to accuse Minister Sawicki - a letter of 5 August on lack of supervision, problems, and consequences because the system will not be able to function when it comes to subsidies. I find it hard to believe that this situation is unbelievable. That's the first thing. [[But what about the farmers?]] That's the first thing. As far as loans are concerned, I also find this question to be such a question, forgive me the word, a little hypocritical. When was there support at the same time as payouts that far gone? I would like to say yes, BGŻ Paribas and West Bank - according to the resolution adopted and the amendment of the relevant legislation by the government will be revolving loans. The farmer goes to the county office, which is a single direct payment, goes to the bank. Bank members... [[Foreign...]] Bank association, cooperative banks, BGŻ Paribas. He receives a six-month working loan for the amount of this payment. As far as interest is concerned, zero. It's a backup to make it possible. On the other hand, when it comes to commissions, it's up to 0.25. If he takes 100,000. working credit for 6 months, 250 PLN. It's a row of greatness. So to prepare spring, if by then it will systematically be paid in successive tranches, with all the burden of annexes, with all the hardship, I think it is secured in the statutory term and there are no restrictions. Thank you for the opportunity to announce from the stand that subsidies are not at risk, support is in place, additional support in the form of loans is also being mobilised... [[300 million more.]] ...and all of our actions are down to securing the 2015 campaign. I'll say it again in two weeks of the system... Of course there were delays in payments, of course there were some problems, but we immediately launched advance payments by the end of November, almost 1.4 billion more. For today's conclusion, let me sum it up - 60% farmers are not waiting for aid, they have received aid. It's 800,000. farmers. The remaining instalments of payments in the following months will be kept in accordance with my previous declarations. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We have already announced this on several occasions at press conferences and in the local press. Farmers know that. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[300 million is going to cost you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u7	Thank you. I would ask Mr Kazimierz Plocke for an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u8	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! It is crucial that farmers receive payments as soon as possible. We understand this issue, while the issue of building a new IT system for handling direct payments was already discussed in this House and then, in December last year, we received the assurance of the Ministry that this system has a chance to be built in early 2016. My two questions are this. Firstly, on what basis do you make direct payments if the system is not built? And secondly, what is the scale of these payments? You mentioned to the Minister that 800,000. farmers have received payments. I'd like to know how this goes down in relation to the area, what's the percentage. Do we first serve farmers who have small-area farms, or are there also farms that have large areas of crops? And whether this system will cost PLN 300 million, [[♪ The bell ♪]] as regards loans or financial assistance to farmers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u9	Thank you. I'm asking the Minister to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u10	The system will cost 44 million, according to previous contracts. Then there were annexes. And here's what I'm going to say: the current management takes over the continuity of power and we've taken over these obligations. This is where you start. No, they're totally... We're talking about the whole system, and we're talking about the direct payment system. From the current information I have: PLN 44 million - this will cost the system, with some modifications and adjustments there. That's why... I did not say that the system does not exist at all, I just said that the system according to payments, in accordance with the payment procedure, as the Minister also realized, being 8 years Secretary of State, has successive stages, successive modules. And we're talking about the fact that the next modules weren't running and there was a delay in these modules. Practically, I can say, for the first six weeks, I can already betray - from 1 December to 20 January - it did not work, there was a delay. These modules are running and the tranches I mentioned are tied. Minister, you also know very well: first, small farms that have no charges and which we can pay easily. In subsequent tranches, those which do not have direct control. More smaller, larger farms. That's how it's activated. We are working on that in the new period, in the new year, in the second year of operation of this rather complicated one, but for the farmers of a favourable system, we can change these proportions a little bit, so that the larger ones get in a different order, it is a timetable for implementation. But there's no procedure, there's no procedure. So the payouts are based on what was started, and the next modules, the next stages are implemented. And that's what the problem is. Besides, it was already very well analyzed by previous management. We've just taken up the subject, and we've led it to some kind of usability. Second question? [[Will the subsidies cost 300 million? Is the loan subsidy, which is the cost of this service, 300 million?]] We'll see how much, we'll see. Let me say this: we'll see how many farmers go for loans, we'll see how many farmers try for them. Cooperative banks - I know that a large part of the larger ones - some say: we will wait another month, we will survive, we will see how it coincides with the tranches of money. I think it's also a possibility: if when buying fertilisers, when buying plant protection products, there is a monthly penalty for payment of invoices, farmers will know and manage. On the other hand, the problem is for larger farms and those in financial difficulties. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's hard for me to tell you how much it's gonna cost. It will depend on how many farmers will benefit from the loans. So there's a possibility.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u11	Thank you very much. A further question was raised by Piotr Liroy-March of the Kukiz club15 on information on the course of therapy and possible risks to oncological patients during treatment, as well as the refund of Herceptin oncological medicine to the Minister of Health. I ask you to ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u12	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Many oncology patients take their medications in health care facilities under medical supervision and then return home until their next chemo. During this time, there may be various complications and side effects. Some patients are given medicines to alleviate the body's reactions, e.g. anti-emetic, others don't. First of all, there is a lack of information about what can happen to the patient during chemotherapy and how to react. The sick and their loved ones feel left behind. Could the Ministry of Health prepare an information program, such as leaflets, brochures, for oncology patients during chemotherapy? I would also like to ask why herceptina, a drug that is extremely effective in some types of cancer, is refunded in a manner that is contrary to the recommendations of doctors and medical knowledge. It is given instead of in the early stages of the disease only after comprehensive chemotherapy and inefficient to these radiation cancers. Most patients do not live until an effective medicine can be given to them, according to the NFZ. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u13	Thank you. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Piotr Warczyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u14	Mr. Marshal! Dear Members, Mr. Speaker! Of course, the Ministry of Health can take such steps as you are talking about, but it seems that the law quite clearly regulates the doctor's obligations to patients as regards informing about all undesirable effects. These records are really very clear in several places. One of them is the Patient Rights Act, the other is the Doctor's Professional Act, in which these obligations are directly imposed on the doctor, it is about informing, of course in an accessible way to the patient, about any possible side effects, side effects, the need to continue treatment or not, recommendations after treatment. That's what doctors have been learning in college for actually forever, because I've been learning these lessons, too, and I know that's what's happened all the time. If this does not work well enough, people are, as usual, responsible for it, in my opinion, or the organisation of work in a given entity, while rights and obligations have been quite clearly formulated and functioned for years. If...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u15	I'm sorry. I understand. The problem is, unfortunately, it's mostly a theory. In practice, unfortunately, because I'm talking about specific cases here, this is my experience, not a theory actually, often patients who come home, I know many such cases, barely saved, they didn't know what was happening to them. They had no idea that even if normal vomiting could lead to death, they do not realize it, at some point they are already getting exhausted at the hospital, and there are also cases that they do not live to this hospital. I understand that there is such a theory and it should be so, but in practice there is a problem and many patients have said that in this case a simple flyer and informant who could take such a person home would be enough to know what to do in certain cases. I understand it should be so fun, but unfortunately, sometimes it doesn't work, and it would be good if there was such a measure. I don't think it's much of a cost, but if it's gonna save people's lives, even one thing, it's a big deal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u16	Of course, I understand, I have a slightly different experience from my professional work, but I understand that this can happen and it will certainly have to be considered how to get this information to the patient and to keep him informed. In theory, every patient who leaves the hospital gets a discharge card that all the information you're talking about should contain. And that, too, is a duty that is clearly formulated in the medical records. But of course, if there are such reports, information, we need to think about how to improve this situation. Going to herceptin, I do not fully agree with you that it is only in advanced situations that it is possible to use it. Herceptin is used in two cases in Poland, it is used in breast cancer and colon cancer. It is used in drug programs. So there are really quite precise conditions when it can be used, but it can also be used in so-called. treatment, means it is used simply in the so-called. adjuvant treatment where there are no advanced forms, it is usually used after mastectomy in women, not with advanced breast cancer. The cost of herceptin is very high, few people realize it, but this is PLN 250 million per year spent exclusively on this drug. So it seems that everything here runs from our point of view and looks right. Of course, the rules for the use of this medicine were not developed by officials, but by medical authorities, national consultants, professors and clinics.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u17	My question was also due to signals from people I spoke to, who just noticed such cases. I understand these are some pathologies that happen out there.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u18	I think so, because we get information about pathology first, right, and when everything's okay, it's just good, because that's how it's supposed to be. Thank you very much. [[Member Piotr Liroy-March: I understand, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u19	Thank you very much. Another question was raised by Mr Grzegorz Furgo of the Modern, on the impact of local governments on the management of maritime ports - to the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation. I ask you to ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u20	Does the Minister allow for the extension of the powers and influence of local authorities on the management of maritime ports and the introduction of statutory changes that will lead to the self-regulation of maritime ports? Maybe I'll give you a little reason. In order to ensure the process of changes in ports of strategic importance for Poland, there is a need for good centralization, e.g. in the form of admission of local governments to the ownership of companies. The distribution of the structure proposed by us is 33% for municipalities, local governments, voivodships and the State Treasury. The free transfer to regional governments and port cities of significant holdings of State Treasury shares in companies managing seaports of fundamental importance to the economy would, in our opinion, increase the economic efficiency of these companies, as well as ensure a more dynamic development of port cities and regions. The leading role in this project, in our opinion, should be played by the Union of Cities and Maritime Municipalities, the regional governments of port cities and the presidents of port cities. I'd like to know what the Minister thinks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u21	Thank you. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation by Minister Paweł Brzezicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u22	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, The legal act which regulates the operation of Polish ports is the Act of 20 December 1996 on ports and seaports. Municipalities where ports of primary importance for the national economy are located are actively involved in the management of these ports. Art. 13 of the Act will determine the participation of port municipalities in companies managing ports of primary importance for the national economy, which should be at least 31% respectively in Gdańsk, Gdynia at least 34%, Świnoujście and Szczecin at 24.5%. In practice, the cities and municipalities did not take up these shares and today it is as follows: in the company of the Management Board of the Maritime Port of Gdańsk SA the municipality of Gdańsk - 2,31 , in the company of the Management Board of the Maritime Port Gdynia SA municipality Gdynia - 0.0436% , in the company of the Management Board of Maritime Ports Szczecin and Świnoujście SA municipality Szczecin - 0,52% , Świnoujście Municipality - 0,15% . The participation or capital injection in such a low percentage is in a huge discrepancy with the real impact of municipalities on the management of in-plus ports. The Law on ports and marinas provides for specific powers for the municipalities concerned regardless of their participation in the ownership structure. On this basis, the municipalities are entitled to indicate their representatives to the composition of the supervisory board, e.g. Gdańsk - 3 representatives, Gdynia - 4 representatives, Szczecin - 2, Świnoujście - 2. At the same time, the Act ensures that representatives of the municipalities are each chair of the supervisory boards, i.e. they decide on corporate decisions within the supervisory board. Experience so far shows that there are levels of potential conflicts of interest between municipalities and port management companies. In particular, it concerns issues relating to the levying of property taxes and charges for perpetual use or the development of areas within the administrative boundaries of ports. The latter is particularly important from the point of view of infrastructure investments in ports and is seen as a barrier to investment in port infrastructure. Port managers manage only part of the port area, which shows that the municipalities which are shareholders of the companies have not contributed land to them since the date of their establishment, although the municipalities have land located within seaports, often of significant size. Mr President, this is the current situation. However, what the economics science says about port management, and what we have witnessed by building this law until 1996, indicates that the current structure is a structure that is too dimensioned under the real needs of municipalities. They're not even fulfilling what they can achieve capital today. Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u23	Thank you. Would you like to ask an additional question? [[No, thank you very much, enough answer.]] Thank you very much. The next question was raised by Jacek Kurzepa, Ewa Tomaszewska and Sławomir Zawislak from Law and Justice, on the possibility of special honoring the last veterans of WiN, AK, Warsaw insurgents and other anti-communist formations connected with the continuity of the historical struggle for the homeland - to the Minister of National Defence. I would like to welcome to the gallery members of the Main WiN Command Mr Leszek Mroczkowski and his adjutant Eugeniusz Szostak. [[Applause]] I ask you to ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u24	Mr. Marshal! Minister! On behalf of the Chief Command of the Association of Officers and Soldiers of Partisan Branches Freedom and Independence, here present Mr Leszek Mroczkowski, I ask the Minister to petition him to follow the example of Marshal Józef Piłsudski, who by order of 21 January 1919. honored the veterans of the January Uprising, giving them special privileges, so that the whole nation would remember them and show them special respect, you took over the patronage of the last surviving soldiers WiN, AK and other anti-communist Polish armed formations and Warsaw insurgents. These steadfast soldiers should be a role model for our youth and generations to follow. Their bravery, honor, courage and love for God and their homeland are values on which generations were raised, even in times - and maybe especially when Poland was not on the map of Europe. The Warsaw Uprising, this magnificent break to freedom despite the critical attitude of allies, and then the heroic fight against the new invader of those who decided to defend their homeland to the end, because they swore so they were a cause for national pride. Soldiers, tortured and executed in phony trials for unenforced crimes were cursed by the communist authorities, and the memory of them was defiled. The remains of many of them were thrown into the pits without proper burial. Therefore, we call for special honoring of the last surviving veterans of WiN, AK and Warsaw insurgents, so as to emphasize the importance of historical tradition and continuity [[♪ The bell ♪]] Fighting for your country. Signed: General Command Freedom and Independence. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u25	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence of Wojciech Fałkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u26	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! National Day of Remembrance, Soldiers of the Cursed, solid soldiers provides a unique opportunity to specialize in honoring the last veterans of the association Freedom and Independence, Home Army, insurgents of Warsaw and other anti-communist formations related to the continuity of the fight for their homeland, the promotion of the war's achievements of soldiers so-called. the second conspiracy and formation based on the boastful patterns of the patriotic attitudes of the army and society as a whole. At this point, I can fully sign on behalf of the Ministry of National Defence and my own under the diagnosis and description of the situation just presented by the Member. The memory day, celebrated for the fifth time this year, prompts us to reflect on the difficult and tragic events of our history. It is a reason for me to be proud and personally satisfied that the Polish Armed Forces will be able to actively engage in the implementation of projects to commemorate and raise the profile of these events from the past. I'm relaying information about the Ministry of National Defence's intentions to specially honor the fallen heroes and the last veterans of the anti-communist uprising. February 22nd this year A press conference took place at the Polish Army Museum, during which the Minister of National Defence signed a decision on the celebration of the National Day of Remembrance, Soldiers of the Cursed, solid soldiers. According to this document, the soldiers' graves and the surroundings of memorial sites dedicated to them will be organized as part of the action under the slogan "Soldier's Memory." There will be ceremonial calls and gatherings throughout the country in military units, during which the Minister's message to the soldiers will be read on this day. There will also be organized ceremonies of flower folding and lighting on the graves of these soldiers and at memorial sites dedicated to them. During the same press conference, a prototype of uniformed soldiers' uniform was presented together with a presentation of the concept of introducing a special, approved in the future by official and formal uniform for veterans fighting for independence of the Republic of Poland. Our intention is to recreate the forms of special honoring of these heroes, following the actions taken by the independent Republic in 1919 against the last surviving January insurgents. We strive to ensure that veterans are properly cared for by the state, and to emphasize that the Polish state recognizes them and honors them as soldiers of the army, the Polish Army of course, by among others. Allowing soldiers' uniforms and military honors to be given to them by modern soldiers. On February 29th, the next Monday, the Polish Theatre will host a festive concert about the Enchanted Soldiers. The concert will be preceded by the ceremony of the award of the Honorary Badge and Medals of the Commemorative Custos of Tradition, Glory and Fame of the Polish Armed Forces and the acts of appointment for the next military degrees for the families of the 23 steadfast soldiers who fell for their homeland. In addition, the decision to appoint 8 other veterans under independence for further military degrees is being examined. On the occasion of this day, the Ministry of National Defence organizes the ceremony on 1 March. A mass will be celebrated in the field cathedral, and a solemn appeal of memory with the participation of the Minister of National Defence will be held in the courtyard of the Polish Military Museum. Then there will be a march before the tomb of the Unknown Soldier, where the solemn laying of the wreaths will take place. I would also like to stress that the action initiated by the order of the Minister of National Defence is to cover all military units throughout the country and thus become visible and to be remembered not only by soldiers but also by all local communities associated with these units. I also wanted to emphasise, in relation to Mr Kurzapa's words, that we want this part of the military tradition to become a basis for the formation of the military tradition of the Polish army today and in the future. And in this spirit, and in this direction, we will conduct training both in military units and in officers' and petty schools. The programme will be developed in this academic year so that it can be implemented from autumn, September and October. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u27	Thank you. I would like to ask you an additional question by Ewa Tomaszewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u28	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Veterans of WiN, AK, Warsaw insurgents and participants of anti-communist fights of other formations, if they survived the political processes and prisons of the Polish People's Republic, were still subjected to repression, in particular the so-called. a wolf ticket restricting both access to education at universities and access to decent work in a trained profession or promotions. Today, their living conditions are often more than modest. Minister, I would like to ask if the Ministry is considering providing these veterans with decent financial support within the legal system. Let me point out that the number of these veterans is already low, melting from day to day, and their health needs additional medical measures. I will also remind you that there are members of the families of Members of the Second Polish Republic murdered [[♪ The bell ♪]] by communists whose names are missing on the memory board in the Sejm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u29	Thank you very much. I'm asking the Minister to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u30	Mr. Marshal! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and High Izbo! This is certainly a problem that is in the field of our attention. And what I'm trying to say is that the preliminary work has already begun. However, there must be cooperation between three resorts. The initiative will certainly preserve the Ministry of National Defence. We feel obliged to do so, but it must be dealt with in agreement with the Office for Combatants and the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. So, the matter requires legislative action, the preparation of an appropriate bill. And here I want to assure you that we see the problem, we realize the passage of time, and that this is where we have to race against time. The Ministry of National Defence wants to take the initiative on this issue, but this will also depend on the cooperation and legislative process that I mentioned. We're prepared for this, we want to do it. It will happen this spring, for sure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u31	Thank you very much. Another question was raised by Michał Szczerba, Dorota Niedziela and Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska from the Civic Platform, on the appeal of the presidents of the horse studs in Janów Podlaski and Michałów, and the resulting risks associated with the continuation and development of Arabian horse breeding - to the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development. I ask Mr Michael Szczerba to ask a question. [[There's no minister.]] [[There it is, there it is.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u32	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! There's a song by Agnieszka Osiecka that could be paraphrased today, and today the real Gypsies are gone. You can say that today the real breeders are gone and only the horses are grieving. Ladies and gentlemen, on 19 February, the Agricultural Property Agency made an appalling decision. Mr Marek Trela was dismissed as president of the horse stud in Janów Podlaski, and from the horse stud in Michałów - Mr Jerzy Białobok. Mrs Anna Stojanowska, inspector at the Agricultural Property Agency, was also dismissed. In an absolutely irresponsible way, people, professionals, breeders, lovers, who also became a brand of Poland abroad, as well as Polish Arabians, who have been caring for decades. This is absolutely outrageous. This is a situation that should cause our firm opposition. Minister, there is no justification for the fact that your subordinate services refer to experienced long-term presidents of breeding companies, students of legendary directors: Andrzej Krzyształowicz from Janów Podlaski or Ignacy Jaworowski, creator of the Arab stud in Michałów. After a week, a witch hunt is carried out. You're dismissing company presidents, horse studs without any justification. After a week, you find some accusations, completely absurd. The question is: What are the powers of newly appointed company presidents, horse studs? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why were these two presidents of the horse studs called off? What role do you see for Arabian pure-bred horses? Do you still consider these studs to be strategic companies for the national economy? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u33	Thank you, sir. Please respond to the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development of Krzysztof Jurgel.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u34	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Referring to the words of the Member, I can say that the Platform is no longer in place today. Polish children, Polish families will receive money. So that it is not so, sir, that management cannot be changed, in this case, by horse studs. Following the loss of confidence on 19 February 2016, the boards of both studs were revoked. The reasons for the appeal were, among others,: First, the lack of adequate surveillance of pure-bred Arabian horses in the case of Janów Podlaski - the consequences of the lack of adequate supervision confirm the circumstances related to the illness, treatment and euthanasia of the mare Pianissima, which was valued at EUR 3 million; the death of the mare occurred in October 2015; for comparison in the record auction held in Janów Podlaski in August 2015, the amount of 1,400 thousand was obtained for the mare Pepita. the euro - secondly, allowing by the management boards of both studs more embryos to be collected by foreign contractors than the Polish regulations allow; thirdly, the conclusion by the boards of both companies of contracts for the lease of mares with foreign breeding centres in a way that did not fully safeguard the interests of Polish entities and limited the possibility of redress. The question to the Member: To whom and what is the purpose of this action? Other management irregularities include: rent by the President for himself for life of the apartment for 1 PLN/m. This is an example, one of the examples of mismanagement to be provided, presented to the relevant authorities. I can assure you that those appointed to manage have the powers of regulation. On the other hand, when it comes to expertise, it will be strengthened by the right people, who will certainly not be worse than those who have been cancelled. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u35	Thank you. I would like to ask Mrs Dorota Sunday for an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u36	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Minister, 39 years of work, 39 years of experience. One of the cancelled CEOs is a veterinarian. It's a little incontrovertible to say that he didn't supervise well the veterinary stuff. I'm a veterinarian myself. Dr. Trela is the best professional in Poland not only from breeding but also from horse diseases. I don't know if the minister knows, but this is a condition that the president, who hasn't seen through, is one of the most dangerous diseases in horses, it's 90%. It leads to death. It's a intestinal twist, it's a horse colic. The horse was immediately transported to the hospital and was operated in Warsaw. If one of you suspected it was under surveillance, I ask you, why didn't you press charges? [[♪ The bell ♪]] in October 2015? Right now, after three days, you're saying that you're possibly... you've lost your trust. I just want to remind you of trust.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u37	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u38	There's something else I need to read. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u39	No, no, no, my fellow Member, time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u40	The Minister said that the Constitution of the Republic of Poland considered everyone innocent...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u41	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u42	...until he's proven guilty. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u43	Please respond to Minister Jurgiel.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u44	Madam, with all due respect to you, 15 October, when it took place It's an event, there's still an election. After taking over power, we have analysed all the checks she has carried out in horse studs, in all horse studs, the Supreme Inspection Chamber over the years, stating a number of irregularities. Anyway, there was a referral to the D.A.'s office, but you know how the D.A.'s office acted during your administration. We've checked some of these applications. They haven't been eliminated, even if it's rent-a-real estate for life. This is mismanagement, ma'am. It is not appropriate, as you say, to make such a profit from the state budget. [[But proof, Minister, proof.]] If we're talking about ethics, then behavior must be ethical, and the commercial code clearly states: as a result of a loss of trust, you can call off a member of the board... [[After 39 years?]] ...and we took advantage of it. He's lost our trust. I gave you the reasons. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u45	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to question seven. The question is asked by Mr Maciej Małecki and Mr Wojciech Zubowski, the Law and Justice Club, on proceedings pending before international investment arbitrations, on the amount of amounts involved in these proceedings and on how the Ministry ensures the protection of the interests of the Treasury vis-à-vis foreign investors. The question is addressed to the Minister of Treasury. Mr Maciej Małecki is the first question to be asked. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u46	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Please inform us how the Ministry of Treasury, how the government secures the interest of the Treasury in relations with foreign investors. I ask this, because over the years the Polish state has concluded a number of international agreements about the so-called. mutual support for investment. They were based on the fact that if a foreign investor felt wronged by the Polish state, he did not pursue his claims here, in front of Polish courts, only handed over the case to investment arbitration. How many such agreements have we made as a Polish state? How many proceedings against Poland are pending before investment arbitration? And I'm asking the Minister to tell me how the new management of the Treasury department is dealing with this case. Do you see the dangers arising from the fact that, in the event of a discrepancy of interests, Poland is sued before an investment tribunal in the event of a different view of certain matters and then, instead of in the Polish courts, these cases are settled outside the territory of the Republic of Poland. I also ask for information, I know that this is a specific question, if the Minister is unable to answer today, I will ask for such information in writing: How many such proceedings have taken place in the last 2 years, what were the applicants' claims and what these proceedings have ended, and how many such proceedings are taking place today and what are the claims [[♪ The bell ♪]] The plaintiffs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u47	Thank you very much, sir. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Treasury Mr Mikołaj Wild answers the question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u48	Ladies and gentlemen! The investment arbitration case is indeed one of the most important issues in terms of protecting the interests of the State Treasury. 11 such proceedings are currently under way. The value of the dispute in these cases is over PLN 4 billion, PLN 4100 million, EUR 1 billion, USD 100 million, which is between PLN 8 and PLN 9 billion, depending on the rate of the euro and the dollar. These are indeed actions in which the threat is quite important, although so far we are winning these cases. On the other hand, one must be aware that each of these proceedings, even winnings, involves costs on the part of the State Treasury in the order of PLN 3/4 million. It is not always possible to recover these costs from foreign investors suing the Polish State. Moreover, it is not a rule either. Therefore, it seems necessary not only to terminate those contracts but also to bring about the loss of legal force as soon as possible, i.e. shortening the transitional period for which these contracts will continue to apply after termination. Therefore, it was decided, in the direction of the Ministry of the Treasury, that, of course, after any analysis of the profits and losses associated with this process, these contracts should be terminated as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u49	The additional question is asked by Wojciech Zubowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u50	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Minister, you mentioned these intentions to change the way of redress and exit from those contracts, where we were obliged to take part in the proceedings, using investment arbitration, assuming that the cost of one procedure was about PLN 3.4 million, so we assume that the reason why we decided to take this solution was because it was a settlement procedure in some way and, at least, it could be said, it was a procedure which was shorter than judicial proceedings. Therefore, the Ministry does not see here the risks involved in the fact that in the case of... If we give up investment arbitrage and it is a matter that will be brought before the courts, will it not extend considerably the period of redress? That's the first line. And the other thing. I understand that as far as cost issues are concerned, this is the at this point by the Ministry analyzed. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Only after this information has been obtained will it be possible to fully comment on the appropriateness of using this solution.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u51	Thank you, sir. I ask Minister Nicholas Wild to answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u52	The main reason why mutual investment agreements exist is to provide investors with a guarantee that the State will not arbitraryly enter into their powers, and this is an expression of a limited confidence in the justice system of the country in which investors invest. Therefore, the speed of our assessment is not a key element here. The key element is such institutional distrust of investors in justice. In our view, and for this reason these agreements were concluded so as to encourage in the 1990s, because it was also a process that started in the 1990s, and for this reason it was a guarantee that investors would not depend on certain political conditions, in our view we have already achieved this degree of democratic development, that the courts guarantee that the case is recognised in a manner independent of political influence, and therefore there is no reason to maintain the favour of these investors. As for the number, because I have not yet responded to the previous answer, that is 60 mutual investment agreements. I do not think that the procedure, the transfer of the case to legal proceedings will have a negative impact on the powers of investors, but certainly more legal certainty will be ensured, because investors, like all other entrepreneurs operating in Poland, will be judged, their claims will be judged according to clearly defined legal standards, and this is not always the case in the case of investment arbitration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u53	Thank you very much. Let's move on to question eight. The question is asked by Tadeusz Aziewicz and Adam Korol from the Civic Platform Club on the intention to connect the Lotos SA Group with PKN Orlen SA and PGNiG SA to the Minister of Treasury. The question is asked by Mr Tadeusz Azievicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u54	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, On 11 January 2016, the media published your statement to Minister Dawid Jackiewicz concerning the launch of analytical work on the possible merger of the Lotos Group, PKN Orlen and PGNiG, which has raised clear concerns about stock exchange investors and local communities, especially in Pomerania. On 13 January 2016, at the meeting of the Commission for Energy and the Treasury, I proposed to include information on the plans for the concentration in the work plan of the Commission. This proposal was rejected by the ruling majority and, in the explanatory memorandum, the chairman of the committee, Marek Suski, stated that, following a discussion with the Minister, he had obtained information about the lack of intention to merge these entities and that the Minister's statement on this matter had been manipulated. A few days later, the media reported that the concentration would only concern the exploration and extraction departments of these companies. Therefore, I am asking you about the real intentions of the Minister regarding the future of the Lotos SA Group, PKN Orlen SA and PGNiG SA. I would remind you that the problem concerns listed companies whose investors are entitled to professional information. The concerns of local environments, both in Gdansk and in Płock, are also understandable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u55	Thank you very much. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Treasury, Mr Henryk Baranowski, answers the question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u56	Dear Marshal! Dear Gentlemen and Mr. Messengers, The primary competence of the Minister of Treasury is the exercise of rights from shares, shares of companies with the participation of the Treasury. In the portfolio of assets supervised by the Minister are companies of importance for the functioning of the country's economy and our energy security. Among them are mainly companies operating in the natural gas and oil sector, such as Polish Petroleum Mining and Gas Industry, Lotus Group and Polish Petroleum Corporation Orlen. The first two entities mentioned by me are companies in which the Treasury has a majority in the shareholder structure. This is respectively the case with PGNiG over 70% , whereas in the case of the Lotus Group more than half of the capital structure. In the third of the companies mentioned above, i.e. in the Orlen Group, the share of the State Treasury is minority and stands at 27%. Turning to the synthetic discussion of the activities of each of these entities, it should be emphasized that Polskie Górnictwo Naftowe i Gazowiectwo is the largest company active on the Polish market in the exploration and extraction of natural gas and its trading. The PGNiG Capital Group has a leading position in all areas of the gas sector in the country, i.e. in the area of natural gas imports, exploration of deposits, extraction of natural gas and oil, storage of gas fuels and sale of natural gas. According to the statutes, the company performs tasks to ensure the country's energy security in terms of continuity of gas supply to its customers and to maintain the necessary reserves in the safe operation of gas networks, balancing the balance of gas fuels. Annually, the company brings about 10 billion m3 of gas to the country, representing about 2/3 of the gas consumed in Poland. At the same time, the company is producing more than 4 billion m3. This makes the company the main importer of natural gas to Poland and the largest producer of the above mentioned raw material in Poland. It should also be stressed that PGNiG is one of the largest heat producers and the only entity obliged to maintain stocks of mandatory natural gas, the eighth producer of electricity in the country in terms of the volume produced and the owner of the gas distribution network and seven national high methane gas warehouses. Thus, PGNiG is the fundamental pillar on which the energy security of our country is based. In turn, the Lotos Group together with companies belonging to the capital group is a vertically integrated oil company engaged in the extraction and processing of crude oil and wholesale and retail sales of petroleum products. The main activity of the Lotus Group is the in-depth processing of raw materials towards fuel production, the trade in high-margin petroleum products and the exploration and extraction of hydrocarbons. By Lotos Petrobaltic, Lotos Exploration & Production Norge, the company conducts exploration and production work in the field of oil operations in the Baltic Sea and in the area of the Norwegian Continental Shell. By AB Lotos Geonafta, the company also has access to land-based hydrocarbon deposits located in Lithuania. In 2014, the company held a 33% share of the domestic fuel market. In addition, it should be noted that the Lotos Group is a market leader in the production of motor oils reaching 45 countries and has a leading position on the domestic road asphalt market. At the same time, the company manages a network of 450 fuel stations across the country, which operates 17 so-called. passengers' places on motorways and express roads. As far as the Polish Petroleum Corporation Orlen is concerned, together with the companies accompanying the Orlen Group, it is a leading producer and distributor of refinery and petrochemical products in the region. PKN Orlen is also carrying out projects in the mining and energy segment. The Orlen Group manages a complex of seven refineries, three of which are located in Poland, three in the Czech Republic and one in Lithuania. Refineries in Płock and in the Czech Republic are integrated into the petrochemical activity of the Orlen Group, which allows to achieve numerous effects of cost and operational synergies. It should also be added that the Orlen Group has the largest retail network in Europe with more than 2,700 fuel stations located in Poland, Germany, the Czech Republic and Lithuania. The refinery in Płock processed 14 million tonnes of crude oil in 2014. The combined share of PKN Orlen in the domestic fuel market reached 60% , whereas in the retail market it is 37%. The Orlen Group is involved in oil and gas exploration projects. In 2013, the Orlen Group started its international expansion in the exploration and extraction sector by acquiring shares of the Canadian exploration and production company TriOil Resources. At the same time, I kindly inform you that the role of the Minister of the Treasury as an active shareholder of companies with the participation of the Treasury is to support all actions undertaken by supervised entities which should, as a rule, lead to an increase in their value. The State Treasury Minister, as the authority responsible for its supervision, focuses on building the value of the companies in which he owns his holdings, assuming the implementation of the State's energy policy. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The aim of this policy, in our view, is to secure the implementation of strategic tasks in the natural gas and oil sector. However, it should be stressed that the initiative of all kinds of consolidation processes should come from stakeholders and their shareholders and should be justified by the expected synergies, the positive effects on the labour market and the support of local communities. Regardless of the above, in replying directly to the question asked, I kindly inform you that the Minister of the Treasury is currently not carrying out any analytical work on the possible consolidation of State Treasury companies in the supervision of oil and gas SMEs. At the same time, it should be emphasized that in the context of ensuring the energy security of Poland it is necessary to maintain the holding of the State Treasury shares in PGNiG, PKN Orlen and the Lotos Group at least at a level that allows to maintain the corporate power of the State Treasury. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u57	Thank you, Minister. Do you still want to ask an additional question? [[Yes.]] There you go, Mr Tadeusz Azievicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u58	I would like to thank the Minister for this description of the operation of our three companies. I'm glad to see you're finally getting to the point. As my next question is as follows: Do you consider it appropriate to communicate with the market in which the Constitutional Minister first speaks of certain intentions, then the chairman of the committee responsible denies them and then the Minister remains silent for more than a month? I draw attention to the fact that we are dealing with stock companies. The question is whether it is fair to private investors who have invested their private capital, whether it is fair to local governments, who are very concerned about the information that the Minister has condemned today. I am generally happy with the punch line, and I appreciate that the Minister is not conducting analytical work on the merger of these three companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u59	Thank you very much. Would the Minister like to address this further? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Treasury Henryk Baranowski: No, thank you.]] Thank you very much. Let's move on to question nine. The question is asked by Members: Joanna Kopcińska, Piotr Uściński and Paweł Lisiecki, the Law and Justice Club, on actions aimed at helping Polish entrepreneurs associated with the Agreement for entrepreneurs injured in the outsourcing of employment by the Polish authorities in the context of enforcement proceedings conducted by tax offices, which could lead to the risk of bankruptcy or liquidation of legally active Polish small and medium-sized enterprises. The question is addressed to the Minister of Finance. The first question is asked by Mrs Joanna Kopcińska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u60	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The issue is extremely important, it concerns outsourcing institutions, it concerns more than 500 companies, small and medium-sized Polish entrepreneurs, and more than 20,000 according to our estimates. workers affected. Following a meeting on 29 December of the representatives of the Ministry of Finance with entrepreneurs associated in the agreement for entrepreneurs injured in staff outsourcing, the Deputy Minister, the Under-Secretary of State in the Ministry of Finance, recommended that the directors of the tax chambers withdraw from enforcement measures which could lead to the risk of bankruptcy or liquidation of legally operating enterprises until the final settlement of disputes pending before administrative courts regarding the application of labour outsourcing. At the same time, in the case of enforcement proceedings already initiated, it was proposed to consider the possibility for the competent director of the tax Chamber to suspend proceedings conducted by the supervised authority against those obliged. Once again, I would like to stress that we are interested in the matter because it concerns a huge number of employees - 20 and 25 thousand. people who have done work are injured. Hence our interest in the subject and the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u61	Thank you very much. The question is answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Wiesław Jasiński. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u62	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In response to the current question of 23 February 2016, asked by Mrs Joanna Kopcińska, Mr Piotr Uściński and Mr Paweł Lisiecki from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, on the measures to assist Polish entrepreneurs associated with the Agreement for entrepreneurs who are victims of labour outsourcing by the Polish authorities in the context of enforcement proceedings conducted by the tax authorities, I kindly present the position of the Minister of Finance in this case. The Minister of Finance notes that the problem of entrepreneurs using employee outsourcing institutions is of a broader nature and concerns both tax and social insurance claims, with enforcement proceedings being carried out against economic operators as the last stage of the collection process, resulting from irregularities found in the fulfilment of the obligations laid down in the various laws. I agree with and share her concern. The statistics are what you have presented - this is about 500 entrepreneurs, more than 20,000. employees, most of these entities are present in the Podkarpackie Voivodship. At the moment there are 26 proceedings before the provincial administrative courts, in four cases the decision was given. In any event, taxpayers' complaints have been dismissed. In seven cases, the Minister of Finance took advantage of the possibility of granting relief to these taxpayers. It should be stressed that the tax authorities responsible for implementing the revenue to the State budget cannot overlook and accept the existence of irregularities in the payment of due tax obligations. The selective treatment of taxpayers would be incompatible with the principle of equality and therefore socially unjustified. Each entrepreneur, when making certain business decisions, should be aware of both the potential benefits and the risks associated with those decisions. However, in view of the need for support for injured entrepreneurs and the fact that decisions which have so far taken place in individual cases before administrative courts have not yet set up a clear and sustainable judicial line, the Minister of Finance has taken action to avoid the situation in which entrepreneurs are brought to bankruptcy and the job deprivation of the thousands of workers referred to by the Member. It was therefore considered appropriate that, at this stage, administrative courts should not take enforcement action against those taxable persons which could lead to the risk of bankruptcy or liquidation of their businesses until the final settlement of disputes before administrative courts in the application of the employment outsourcing institutions. Such recommendations were made by the Minister of Finance to the heads of the tax offices as enforcement bodies. On the other hand, with regard to the enforcement proceedings already under way, the Minister of Finance proposed to the directors of the tax chambers as supervisory authorities to consider the possibility for the institution to suspend ex officio enforcement proceedings in accordance with its statutory powers. However, it should be stressed that an assessment of the appropriateness of carrying out or stopping enforcement proceedings should be carried out separately in each individual case by the competent authorities, i.e. the heads of the tax offices or the directors of the tax chambers respectively. At the same time, I would like to clarify that the legislation in force does not allow the Finance Minister to take action on individual, specific taxpayers' matters and to instruct subordinate individuals to deal with them. However, I would like to point out that apart from the institutions, the suspension of enforcement proceedings by means of an instrument of support for taxpayers who are in temporary financial difficulties are reliefs in the payment of tax liabilities as regulated by the Tax Order. At any stage of enforcement proceedings, the trader may therefore request such relief, e.g. on the distribution of entitlements into instalments. On the other hand, in the event of the distribution of debts into instalments, enforcement proceedings shall be suspended ex officio. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Therefore, in answer to the question asked, I explain that the tax authorities and administrative enforcement authorities, while complying with the legislation, are also required to assess individually the measures applied to taxpayers. Many entrepreneurs cooperate with tax and enforcement authorities, communicating on the deadline for payment of the amounts in question, while waiting for the decisions of the competent administrative courts. Any illegal activity should, however, be reported to the competent directors of the tax chambers as the supervisory authorities of the tax and enforcement authorities. For its part, the Minister of Finance will also endeavour to reduce the risk of bankruptcy or the liquidation of legally active entrepreneurs as a result of unjustified actions by government administrations. As you probably know, the District Attorney's Office in Wrocław also conducts preliminary proceedings, criminal proceedings. [[♪ The bell ♪]] They will also bring a lot to the issues which remain the concern of the Member. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u63	Thank you very much, Minister. The additional question is asked by Mr Piotr Uściński. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u64	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have this question: Why wasn't the state's tax company able to detect this properly earlier and prevent the activities of fraudsters who deceived Polish entrepreneurs who deceived Polish employees? Why has this damaging activity been allowed to last so long? After all, there were certainly indications for this, because these arrears appeared in the long term. Does the Ministry have any idea how to protect Polish entrepreneurs and employees from this kind of fraud in the future? Are the measures already taken, i.e. those recommendations made by the Minister to the tax authorities and the tax authorities, sufficient, or should we not make some greater safeguards so that in the future such fraud does not occur in the labour outsourcing market? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u65	Thank you very much. The question is answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Wiesław Jasiński. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u66	Thank you for this question, sir. Yes, this is probably still the subject of an audit at the Ministry of Finance - how this could have happened, in particular in the context of the time in which it occurred. Well, the Minister of Finance has made recommendations to the directors of the tax chambers to monitor the new tax arrears that arise and to analyse the reasons for their creation in order to reveal new phenomena that can be compatible with the interests of honest entrepreneurs. It has also taken the initiative to make public, pending the establishment of a register of public debtors' debts, lists of certain entities with tax arrears with which economic contacts are subject to high financial risks. And, above all, it seems important to continue legislative work on the creation of a register of public debtors' debts, which would be a deterrent tool for irregularities in this area. So much for initiatives that I can talk about at this stage of work at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u67	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. Members of Grzegorz Woźniak, Sławomir Zawiślak and Jerzy Bielecki ask a question about the state of progress of the modernization works of the S17 road in the area of the Mazowieckie and Lublin voivodships, the date of commencement of construction works and the date of commencement of construction works of the Tomaszów Lubelski ring road to the border with Ukraine in Hrebenne - to the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction. The question is first asked by Mr Grzegorz Wozniak. Excuse me, Mr Jerzy Bielecki. Excuse me, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u68	It's okay. Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In the beginning, I think it is appropriate to thank the Minister for launching the last section of the construction of the S7 towards Warsaw, from Lublin. This information has come up very recently and I think this question is a little late, but thank you very much to the Minister. This is the last episode that was launched. I think that this decision will be very pleased with the inhabitants of the entire Lublin Voivodeship. But, continuing, I would like to ask about the remaining section from Lublin towards the border with Ukraine, towards Hrebenny. What is the progress of the preparation of these investments? I ask you to answer me very warmly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u69	Thank you very much. Is Mr Zwiślak now, or... [[If you don't mind, now is the time, Marshal.]] Good. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u70	Dear Marshal! Minister! As a parliamentarian representing the inhabitants of the Lublin Voivodeship, I express my expectation about the construction of modern road infrastructure in our region, among others. S17 roads, including Tomaszów Lubelski bypass. The implementation of this important investment is very important primarily for increasing the safety of traffic, also strengthening the investment attractiveness and economic potential of our voivodship, and thus the country. In recent years, road investments in Lublin Voivodeship have been carried out in comparison with other regions of the country in a very limited way, not only in terms of reconstructions, but also in terms of surface renewals. The start in 2010 of the construction of the expressway on the section of Kurów - Lublin - Sands was, in the opinion of many, forced by protests of numerous environments directed, among others. to the PO-PSL government. Not yet realized, among others. repeatedly promised during this period the construction of the Tomaszow Lubelski ring road, very important for cross-border traffic at the border with Ukraine, as well as for the inhabitants of the region, even though the State Treasury acquired the necessary real estate under this investment, [[♪ The bell ♪]] and the investor was granted a building permit as of... in 2010. I have questions, believing that the government will decide to implement a full range of investments in the Lublin Voivodeship in implementing the campaign's sustainable development policy. Such as: What criteria are adopted or adopted by the Ministry in order to make possible adjustments to the road construction plan in kind and how will they affect the planned investments in the Lublin Voivodeship? Second: Is it real, raised in local media, completion of construction and putting into service of the S17 road by mid- 2019? And the last. In view of the numerous planned and delayed constructions of the Tomaszow Lubelski ring road, I ask: Is this investment not threatened, will the tender procedure initiated by the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways in Lublin be concluded this year and the contract with the contractor be signed? Will this investment be carried out according to the building permit already issued...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u71	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u72	I'm almost done, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u73	Yeah, you've been out of time by one minute. I mean, really, not everyone's so...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u74	...and the documentation you have, when is the scheduled deadline for this investment, the ring road to traffic? Excuse me.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u75	You're welcome. But stick to the time, because the other marshals cut their speeches by 12 seconds, and you said more than one minute longer. You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u76	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank all of you for these kind words addressed to the government, to my chief minister Andrzej Adamczyk and to all those who work very hard to implement the national road construction programme as far as possible by 2023. These paths, which you have been gracious to speak of here, are also included in this programme. Maybe I'll briefly describe the state of implementation of the various sections. I understand that this part of the S17, which begins in Warsaw, runs through Warsaw, is divided into sections. I will try to present to the High House very briefly, as in the various sections is at the moment, how advanced it is. Well, we'll start with the section of the Zakręk - Warszawa - Lubelska node. Designed episode... The planned signing of the contract with the contractor is the fourth quarter of 2016. The planned completion is December 2019. The section of the Lublin knot - a tender has been announced. The date of signing the contract is the fourth quarter of 2016. The planned completion of the project is December 2019 and thus also the previous one. Lubelska Episode - the beginning of the Kołbieli ring road. Here is the planned completion of the implementation in October 2019. Going further, the Kołbieli ring road is in progress. A contract has been signed with the contractor. The planned completion is September 2019. From the Kołbieli ring road to the beginning of the Garwolin ring road - 13 km. The planned completion is December 2019. Garwolin section - the end of the Gończyc ring road is in progress. The planned completion date is April 2019. The end of the Gończyc ring road - the border of the Mazowieckie voivodship with the Lublin voivodship - the planned completion is April 2019. And then Skrudki node is already in Lublin Voivodeship. The planned completion is April 2019. Skrudki - Kurów Node - the planned completion is April 2019. On the other hand, High Izbo, regarding the Tomaszów Lubelski ring road, which Mr Zawislak asked about, I would like to inform you that it is at a stage of far-reaching progress. Its implementation... September 30th. A tender was launched for the execution of the ring road. The planned signing of the contract with the contractor is the fourth quarter of this year, so it is already relatively close. The planned implementation is the years 2016 and 2020 and is due to begin this year. There are no threats here right now. This investment has full funding, so I don't think any problems will show up here except those that may occur in the course of normal implementation, but I hope that there will be no such problems. On the other hand, the remaining sections of S17 from Lublin to the border in the east, to the border with Ukraine, are being prepared, so environmental documents are created there. And so on. section Sand - Hrebenne is 113 km, expenditure on implementation - very significant cost, 6330 million PLN, that is planned. These are very significant expenses, but this is also a very difficult area when it comes to environmental requirements. The current stage of implementation - is a request to the Regional Environment Director in Lublin for a decision on environmental conditions. We're still preparing the next episodes, so it's like this. On the other hand, as far as a more general question is concerned, regarding the provision of funds for the implementation of the programme, as far as possible, ladies and gentlemen, we did not hide that, as far as this programme, which had been left by the predecessors, amounting to nearly PLN 200 billion - on the other hand, the provision of funds at the level of PLN 107 billion - we have to make very serious decisions about it. But before there are any changes in the program itself, we are primarily trying to rationalise road construction in Poland. A special team was set up at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, which is already working to reduce road construction costs in Poland. We study regulations, we study technologies, we investigate ways of cooperation between contractors and the Ministry and the General Directorate. Public procurement law - we also make comments on the amendments that are already being examined today. I think we will also make such comments to this profound new amendment. First, we want to think about how rational it is. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and cheaper, better to build roads, and then we will answer questions about specific sections of roads. The government prefers to build as many roads as possible, so that public money, which is guaranteed to build roads, makes the most of it, and that this Polish road system is as coherent as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u77	Thank you, Minister. Do you still want to ask an additional question?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u78	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I would like to thank you again for this episode from Lublin to Warsaw. If the Minister had set a deadline for the remaining part of the investment on the S17 road towards Hrubieszow. Is it even possible to begin in this term of office of the Sejm?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u79	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! Of course, it is the government's will, and I think that all of us, so that road construction works as efficiently as possible, so that these deadlines for submitting particular sections of roads are as short as possible. I'm not saying this to put out enthusiasm or create problems. It was not so long ago, at the beginning of February I attended a meeting in Rzeszów, where we discussed the implementation possibilities of S19, which will be a very important part of Via Carpatia Artery for the whole of Eastern Europe. And with regard to the section from Rzeszow to the Slovakian border, preparations for environmental research, making environmental decisions took 8 years. Of course, this area we are talking about, the S17 in this case, is not so difficult biologically, it is not so difficult to build roads, but it is also not a simple area. We know that there are many protected areas, many areas very valuable to nature. And unfortunately, it's taking time. The development of methods, the development of routes that will be as severe as possible, both for nature and for people, for the inhabitants, simply lasts. I hope that these works, which I mentioned earlier, which will concern legislation on road building in Poland, environmental regulations, will also be able to speed up and we will be able to enjoy new roads in advance, and users will not have to waste time, and the roads will also be safer and they will be able to better us Serve everyone. I hope that all these trials will be completed as soon as possible. Thank you very much for your praise, but I stress, these are words to all people who work hard, both in the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, headed by Minister Andrzej Adamczyk and in the general management, as well as in other services responsible for road building. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u80	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to Question 11. The question is asked by MEPs Janusz Sanocki, non-attached Member, and Jerzy Jachnik, Kukiz club15, on the harassment of entrepreneurs by customs and tax authorities in terms of dimensional decisions. The question is addressed to the Minister of Finance. Please, the question is asked by Janusz Sanocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u81	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! It is about harassing entrepreneurs by customs and tax offices in various cities of Poland, in this case on the example of an entrepreneur who imported cars. The Customs Office in Bydgoszcz has issued 50 decisions on tax subsidies. These decisions were repealed by the Voivodship Administrative Court. Although these decisions have been repealed, the head of the customs office is issuing further decisions, ignoring the fact that the court has already ruled in this case. December 21st Ub. There has been an interpellation on this issue, No 214, by Mr Ardanowski and Mr Żyżyński. Members have asked for the position of Minister of Finance. The response from the ministry was, of course, unintelligible, such over and over again, unsubstantiated, most likely such answers come. It is because in Poland there is virtually no complaint system and the answer is actually given by the person who is interested, the person who created the contested rules or decisions. At the moment, after this interpelation, the customs office issued another 100 decisions in a similar case against the same trader, ignoring 50 judgments of the administrative court. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, all judgments of the administrative court are valid and the customs office is issuing further decisions. How can this be reconciled with the rule of law? This case was the subject of a television programme. State in the State. On 21 February, the head of this office stated that he was issuing these decisions so that the provincial administrative court would have something to do. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In my opinion, ladies and gentlemen, such an official should not work any longer than a day after such a statement. I'm asking the Minister to comment on this situation.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u82	Thank you very much. Mr Konrad Raczkowski, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, will answer the question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u83	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Referring to the question of Mr Janusz Sanocki and Jerzy Jachnik, I would like to say at first, referring directly to the speech of the Member, that, indeed, in many periods in Poland, the quality of the legal framework and then the enforcement by tax authorities were burdened with certain errors, whether smaller or larger. On the other hand, as far as the answer is concerned, this particular case was last answered on January 18th. It is impossible to agree that this was a laconic response because it was contained on 6 pages and not for the first time presented arguments in a factual manner. The Minister of Finance should always stand by the law. This right must not be tried to interpret where this field for interpretation does not exist. What's the case in this case? Namely, I will address myself in detail. So, the issues of the tax authorities' proceedings. Despite these decisions by the CSA in previous cases and favourable to the taxpayer of final judgments, it is necessary to clarify the current state of play. The verdicts given by the WSA in Bydgoszcz are not valid. This is the essence of the case, these judgments are not valid. These judgments were submitted by the tax authority to the NSA, which will assess their correctness. By these judgments, the CSA repealed the decisions of the tax authorities for procedural reasons - this is important, these were only procedural reasons - without assessing the correctness of the tax authorities' position on the assessment of excise duties on cars and their correct classification. Point two, execution. As regards the enforcement proceedings conducted, I explain that the information obtained from the Director of the Customs Chamber in Toruń shows that enforcement proceedings carried out on the basis of final decisions of the Director of the Customs Chamber in Toruń were suspended in connection with the unlawful judgments of the Provincial Administrative Court in Bydgoszcz and information about cassation complaints lodged by the Director of the Customs Chamber in Toruń. Enforcement proceedings shall take place only in respect of decisions which have not been informed of a possible judgment or cassation action. With regard to matters relating to the control of the tax authority, having regard to the allegations concerning the action of the tax authorities in the cases in question, the Minister of Finance in the context of the supervision has ordered the competent office of the Ministry of Finance to carry out controls in the Customs Chamber in Toruń and the supervised customs offices, which has examined the correctness of the conduct of the tax authorities in relation to the risk analysis and the dimension and collection of excise duties. No abnormalities were detected as a result of the controls. In addition, I can say that at the time of the acceptance of the tax interpretation requested, the taxpayer was given a clear statement that, if this interpretation does not refer to the actual situation, the economic turnover which this taxable person is undertaking, it may be amended and is non-binding. That's what the information was. As regards the binding tax interpretation, I would like to remind you that the taxpayer applied for it after the fact, which unfortunately occurred here... It may be regrettable to the taxpayer, but these are clearly not fiscal errors, although in the past these fiscal errors have occurred and I believe they should be strongly stigmatized and eliminated. I agree that in situations like this, when a clerk is guilty, there shouldn't be room for him. In this particular case, however, I cannot agree that the tax authorities are responsible here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u84	Thank you very much, Minister. Is there... [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] Please, the additional question is asked by Mr Jerzy Jachnik.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u85	Minister! Your answer is more or less the same as the answer to the interpellation. I do not know whether you and the Minister are concerned with the fact that for each imported car one decision is made. There's 150 decisions, that's 150 cases. I'm asking when this entrepreneur is supposed to be in court and when he's supposed to be working. It is also not true, what you say is that judgments are unlawful because they are valid. Cassation is an erasation, it's an extraordinary measure. If they take place in the same case, one case can be brought, and in the case of the others, wait with them for a final decision not to lead 150 cases, because each case is also fees and costs. And the answer, Minister, the director of the customs office, is that this is why it's done so that the provincial administrative courts have something to do, otherwise they wouldn't have anything to do, it's just scandalous. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We are looking forward to a firm position on this matter. If there are any ambiguities, then I recommend the last program of the State in the country.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u86	Thank you very much, sir. Minister, please refer to this case.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u87	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Once again, I would agree fully with this position, I would sign under it, but it, unfortunately, does not find any justification in fact. The honourable Member was kind to say that the judgments are final. Well, they're not. Judgments are valid according to the law applicable in the territory of the Republic of Poland only if there are NSA rulings, and here we do not have such a situation, we do not have NSA rulings. There is a question of why the proceedings are being conducted. It is precisely because there are no NSA rulings, and if the tax authority notes irregularities and does not initiate proceedings at that time, it is exposed to allegations which directly concern a particular authority, not acting lawfully. So here we are exposed both to statute of limitations and to failing to act in case of suspicion of an irregularity, I am no longer talking about other categories of illegal acts. So on the one hand, we have a right to respect, but here, in this particular situation, although I would like very much... The Minister of Finance sees the need to promote economic turnover and take care of the interests of all economic operators operating under the law, but it cannot be accepted that the state here is on the taxpayer's side - for example, the fact that the taxpayer, as I understand it, states that judgments are valid. That is not the case, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u88	Thank you very much, Minister. That concludes questioning. At the same time, I wanted to welcome the local authorities from Płock, who came here at the invitation of Mr Piotr Zgorzelski. [[Applause]] Welcome back, folks. I hope that your stay in the Seym will be a very important event for you. We proceed with the consideration of item 9 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that at this sitting of the Sejm information will be considered on the recognition by the Russian customs services of the TIR Carnet, which was proposed by the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Platform. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Paweł Olszewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u89	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The problem that we are discussing today, asking for information from the government and the Minister on the problems of Polish carriers in relations with the Russian Federation, is extremely important and requires answers to some fundamental questions. What happened... Minister Szmit is well aware of this, as he has been conducting these negotiations from the beginning. I, being in the department... In advance of Minister Szmit's statement: we had meetings with the Federation, with representatives of the government of the Russian Federation, with Minister Asaula a few days after the parliamentary elections. Listening to the voice, opinions and requests of both President Duda and Prime Minister Szydło, I left these negotiations to run a new government team. In the meantime, a lot of things happened in Poland, which resulted in strain, to say the least, in international relations. In fact, most of these relations at European Union level have been devastated. After a discrediting debate in the European Parliament, Minister Adamczyk went to the Commissioner for Transport, Ms Violeta Bulc, asking for help on Polish carriers and relations with Russia. Of course, the Commissioner said that she believed in the negotiating capacity of the Polish party. This had a tangible impact on relations and on what was happening in the negotiations with Russia. Moreover, on 12 February, Minister Szmit replied that there was virtually nothing disturbing going on and that, in recent years, there were no signals from entrepreneurs about problems with the recognition of the TIR ticket. We know it was a moment when the situation was very intense. I do not know whether the Minister knows what he is signing or not, but I would recommend for the future that he give precise answers, consistent with the facts. On 19 February, the Polish party, in the person of the Minister, signed an agreement with the Russian party. Let's agree: this is an absolutely provisional agreement, a provisional agreement, valid only until April. I would ask the Minister to interpret, in principle, the interpretation of his own words, because it is not entirely understandable what the Minister meant, saying, "Today a decision has been made that a large part of the regulations that have been introduced by the Russian party, and which have hit Polish transport very hard, will be worked out. I hope that we will sign another protocol by the end of March or April. I would ask you to explain what the next steps will be, what the alternative options are if Russia does not want to extend this agreement. We know that Polish carriers are a giant on the European market. This has a significant impact on the economic situation of Poland. I would also ask that the Minister, when answering these questions, also indicate what was the content of this agreement. Is it true that you have accepted without agreement with the finance department that the Russian party will be able to transport fuel in larger quantities without duty? You should know the economic and financial implications for the state budget - it is estimated to be around 800 million - but also the risks associated with the grey zone and abuses in this area. Minister Szmit and Minister Adamczyk, who decided to completely eliminate the management of their subordinate departments, have caused chaos in the area of authorisation. The carriers complain that, unfortunately, due to these personal changes, they are in a fundamental way hindered by the possibility of obtaining TIR vouchers, which results from the negligence of the Polish party, the current management.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u90	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction of Mr Jerzy Szmit. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u91	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will try to answer directly the question that has been raised in today's current information and the answer will be very short. If it is the will to develop this answer, I would be very happy to do so with regard to the various points that the Member here has preached. I will start directly with the answer to the question that has been raised today concerning TIR passes and their use and relations with the Russian Federation. Since 2015, actually from the beginning, neither the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction nor the Customs Service have been affected by signals from traders having problems with the recognition of TIR passes by Russian customs. The absence of signals from road carriers in this case also confirmed the ZMPD. And that's where we could end the current information, because that's how the question was formulated. [[Voice from the room: It would be too easy.]] What question, Mr. President, such an answer. What question, such an answer. If Mr Olszewski put the question this way, I answer it directly. Do you want us to stop? [[Voice from the room: No, no, wider information.]] What question, Mr. President, such an answer. But now a few words about the different ones, I would say directly, the absurdities that Mr Olszewski preached. Well, first of all. Negotiations have taken place since 21 December Ub. The agreement which led to the signing in Moscow on 22 February did not concern the TIR Carnet. It's good for you to know in the future how you're gonna ask that kind of question. There wasn't a word about the TIR pass in those negotiations. Because, like I said, this case is settled. They were about something else, namely the implementation of the agreement between Poland and the Russian Federation concluded in 1996. To this agreement every year, sometimes every longer period, it is necessary to include protocols which specify the amount of permits exchanged between the two parties in their transport relations. The expiry date of the last protocol, which was concluded in Sochi 3 years ago, passed at the end of the year and as far as I know, because I examined the information that I found in the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction - at the end of that period Minister Paweł Olszewski was responsible - you could have concluded this agreement, you could have signed this protocol and you could have just dealt with it. That was in your jurisdiction. You've had a few months to do this. That was your problem, that was your job that you simply didn't do, sir. You left us this job, we did this job, and we did it brilliantly. I've never had so many congratulations in my life, so many praises that we've managed to solve such a difficult case. What was it about? To make it clear to everyone here, and to explain: The Russian Federation - and they, the Russians - do not hide it at all - intends to limit foreign transport or even eliminate it from their territory, because it is unable to cope with these market methods, their carriers are not able to provide this transport for various reasons, I will not get into it, because this is the thing Not for this place and not for this time. Therefore, the Russian Federation issued a law in February last year on the control of international transport in its territory. This bill actually got its power back in November. In December, the Russian Federation issued a regulation to this act which radically impeded the access of Polish carriers to this market. Nor will I go into the technical details of these regulations. However, the impact would be that, as experts estimate, about 85% Polish transport would be eliminated from the Russian market. Moreover, this would also make it difficult to access Polish goods to the Russian market, because the Russians interpret it in such a way that these goods and products which were manufactured in Poland, in the area of the Republic, but in factories belonging not to Poles, but to international companies or to foreign capital at all, will be interpreted as a transport from third countries. So this area of transport, which the Russian Federation wants to limit to the maximum. It wants to limit them to the maximum because it considers that if they are goods intended for transport to Russia, they should be transported by Russian carriers. And we've been discussing this for five rounds of very difficult negotiations. Very difficult, because we have made it clear from the beginning of the Russian side: we will start discussing the number of permits only when we establish the rules on which these transports will be carried out. It really took us a long time. But if we agreed to what the Russian side proposed, after a few months there would be no Polish transport on Russian roads. There would be no Polish transport on Russian roads. And we were fully aware of that as the management of the Ministry, but above all, I stress this, the carriers whose representatives were with us from the first to the last minute of negotiations and participated in all stages of these negotiations. This is not enough, on the final protocol initialled in Moscow, there are signatures of all representatives of the transport environment. That's what it looks like. That's the truth about what we've done. Ladies and gentlemen, you have mentioned that this agreement is temporary. Yeah, it's temporary. I did so with full awareness. Why? Because the Russian party claimed as follows: we cannot change our laws in one, two or three days. And it was difficult for them not to agree actually, given the different formulas of Russian law, according to which each regulation, although issued by some resort, concerning specific competences, in this case transport, must still be approved by the Ministry of Justice of the Russian Federation, which has its pace, which works without a deadline. And we accepted that argument. But at the same time, in order to secure our interests, we said: Okay, we date, we give two months, until April 15th, but by April 15th we also give important permits. After April 15th, the permits we've exchanged now will just be irrelevant. And if, by then, the Russian party fails to fulfil the obligations set out in the document signed in Moscow - I stress, the commitments to amend the regulations in a spirit which was also included in the agreement - unfortunately, the permits will expire. But here it's all on the Russian side now. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to one thread that you have been gracious to bring to the debate, namely the fuel thread. About the fact that the Russian side in every conversation raises the topic of the so-called. full tanks, i.e. the desire to refuel to full, in case you enter Poland, it is nothing new. In all prognosis it's raised, in everyone it's spoken of. And this time, too, this thread has repeatedly appeared during these five rounds of conversations. During the last tour in Moscow, we talked about this when we came to an agreement. The Russians have said that they are giving way very seriously because they are committed to changing their laws, and we are not giving up on anything. And of course you could insist, you could say: let's move away from the table, so let's for the next two weeks, 10 days, and maybe a month there will still be no transport between Poland and the Russian Federation. Ladies and gentlemen, it was possible to do this, but it was because of our responsibility that we did it differently. I said this: well, we will talk about this with the Minister of Finance of the Republic of Poland. And that's how it was written. Indeed, the Ministry of Infrastructure will apply to the Ministry of Finance to examine the matter to consider it. And what else am I gonna say? Well, we've agreed that this case, so it's written in the record, [[♪ The bell ♪]] It will only enter into the agenda for further talks when we no longer discuss this protocol, which I hope will be signed by mid-April or earlier, but we will talk about a new agreement between Poland and the Russian Federation. Only then. Moreover, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to remind you that today's agreement is about 200 litres of fuel, which Russian carriers can bring to Poland, crossing the border, while in recent years, and this was primarily the decisions taken by the previous government, this limit has been increased from 200 l to 600 l. And it wasn't the decisions of law and justice. That's what I'd like to end with. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u92	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to inform you that 10 Members have asked questions. Anyone else want to join us? If not, I'm closing the list. I'm opening a discussion. The first question is asked by Marek Polak, a club called Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u93	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, It is a good thing that the three-week still in freight transport between Poland and Russia ended last week, although it is a pity that the agreement is only valid until 15 April. But I am concerned about the media reports on the inaction of the representatives of the European Union, to which, as far as I know, our government has asked for help in the negotiations. And I also remember that the European Union authorities did not remain passive, taking an appropriate process immediately in 2013 against the difficulties of Russia towards Lithuanian carriers. That is why I wanted to ask the Minister: Did the Polish Government address this problem to the representatives of the European Union and have they met the expected response and assistance in the negotiations on the part of the Union? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u94	Thank you very much. The next question is asked by Mr Stanisław Żmijan, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u95	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! At first, such a remark - completely unnecessary irritation, Minister, because first of all, it is a point: Current information, there are questions and the High House expects answers. After all, not so long ago we played a completely different role - he asked questions, we answered. But to the point. Minister, the international road transport sector in Poland was built after 1989 by entrepreneurs without state aid. Today it is an important part of our economy, giving around 12% GDP. But this sector, unfortunately, is very sensitive to the economic situation, because it is the economic situation that determines the mass of transport, but also affects very aggressive competition in this area. During the economic crisis, the government of the Civic Platform and the PSL, including with you as a Member, adopted two anti-crisis laws supporting this sector. Today we have a more complex situation, because there have been political - unfortunately, political - decisions of Russia in this regard and you have said a lot about it. It is good that a temporary agreement is reached, but only temporary. We do not know - the Minister also - whether Russia will not again take restrictive decisions in this area for political reasons. It is good that there are decisions of Ukraine, well that there are decisions of other countries in this area, the Russians felt in what situation they are, that they can also harm their economy. Therefore, my question is: Are you, Minister, and the government - and do not be irritated [[♪ The bell ♪]] - are you working on mechanisms for possible support for this important part of our economy in case the Russians actually get stiff? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u96	Thank you very much. The next question is asked by Mr Mieczysław Kazimierz Baszko, PSL club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u97	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This is undoubtedly a difficult topic for every politician, for every government, because these are very difficult conversations, but you need to talk But above all about pragmatism, about rationalism. We know that the Russian side is doing this under itself, because in particular these third countries, only these permits above all, and that's what we need to play, I'm sorry. Let's treat third countries just like the Polish state, the limit of one to one, it would be the most fair, only it will be difficult, but it is necessary to negotiate, to put such a subject, because it managed to shift it in time. This does not justify us, everyone, that it was, however, the transition of power from PO-PSL to PiS, but the continuity of the state must function. And that cannot be justified, what some Members say from the speaker. For my part, I have a request for even further control by the Road Transport Inspection in Budzisk of this Polish-Lithuanian transition. The inspection is already ending its operations, such an agreement, I also learned from the information, because these entrances of Russian carriers were sealed, because for one permit - you must, dear Izbo, know - the Russians entered six, seven times, and it was combinatoria, there was no registration with us. I have a request, and at the same time a question, to introduce an electronic truck system at these border crossing points as soon as possible, [[♪ The bell ♪]] where Russian carriers enter, especially at the crossing in Budzik, so that it is reliable, how many entrances there are, and so that there is no slickness that they enter again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u98	Thank you very much, sir. The next question was joined by Mr Robert Tyszkiewicz, the Platform. There isn't. Mr. Jacek Protasiewicz. There isn't either. Mr Tomasz Kostus. There isn't. Mr Józef Lassota. There isn't either. Mrs Bożena Kamińska. There isn't. There is Mrs Kaminska, please. [[I don't ask.]] He's dropping the question. Mr Leszek Ruszczyk. There isn't. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u99	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! In this whole case, the clue program is Russia's idea to treat goods produced in Poland by foreign companies as goods produced in third countries - it was the fundamental idea that caused the problem. It would really be necessary to congratulate the Russians on such sophistication. Now it seems that disarming this bomb, this construct, is the gateway to the future. I wanted to ask the Minister what the Minister's approach to this matter is, because it seems that this should indeed be of interest to all the countries of the European Union, and not only. I am thinking here of the European Commission, the question of its past and future role, to what extent you intend to involve her, as well as the WTO, the World Trade Organisation. What's gonna happen to these instruments? Because it seems that we need to pursue this issue towards the sustainability of the agreement, so that Russia does not come up with any more loopholes that will put our transport industry in such a difficult situation. We know that this is indeed a huge segment of the national economy, we are Europe's second carrier, more than a quarter of a million trucks, a huge number of people working. The transport sector is currently generating three or four times more GDP than agriculture, hence this concern. It is important to appreciate the ability to reach this temporary agreement, but first of all, I am interested in the perspective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u100	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to ask Mr Jack Protasiewicz, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u101	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I, Minister, have a very short and very precise question, because the owners of transport companies, people who have been operating in this industry for years, signaling very serious financial consequences, very serious losses, which are also a result of, among others. the activities of this government or, I would say, its omissions or inadequacies. In view of the above, this question is very precise: What losses did Poland suffer in this situation? I'm asking for that information in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u102	Thank you very much. That's where we ran out of questions. Please take the floor of the Minister... Excuse me, please take the floor of Mr Paul Olszewski, the applicant. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u103	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I am amazed at your performance and, above all, I am amazed at your way of articulating your arguments, above all your level of arrogance. That's what the Sejm is for, and that's what the current information is for, to ask questions. That's once. Two - we have the right and the duty to expect you to answer that question, but you have forgotten that you are in charge, not us, for 100 days now. You forgot that when you won the election, both the current candidate for Prime Minister and President Duda appealed not to make any binding decisions. Listening to this voice, I left these negotiations for you and you started them last December. You haven't answered the basic questions. What alternative scenarios does the infrastructure resort provide for the possibility that after April there will be no agreement with the Russian Federation? Is such a scenario what the Foreign Minister Mr.Waszczykowski said, that it will be necessary to look for circular roads of Russia for Polish transporters? Well, to be honest, it's a pretty brilliant thought. I would like to see such a circular path of the Russian Federation. You have also slipped through an extremely important subject, firstly, state security and public finances, i.e. issues related to the total abolition of the import limits of non-tax fuel from both the Russian Federation and Belarus. It is estimated for today that the annual losses to the state budget, the real losses to the state budget, will be approx. 800 million of unpaid duties, not to mention losses resulting from the fact that the grey zone will grow and the Polish market will be hit by extremely cheap, non-tax fuel. Did you have the authority and power of attorney from the finance department in respect of this kind of commitment to deprive the Polish state of the Russian Federation of Minister Shamacha? If you claim that there is a signed agreement with conditional consent, I would ask you to provide the Minister with the content of this agreement between the Government of Poland and the Government of the Russian Federation so that we can have reliable knowledge in this area, because unfortunately, but the words of the Minister are very often nothing to do with reality. Hence, I ask you to answer these questions. Please provide, if possible, your marshal, the content of an extremely important agreement and I ask you to answer the question of what alternative scenarios you have in case this agreement fails to be re-signed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u104	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of the representative of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction of Minister Jerzy Szmit.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u105	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Maybe I'll start by asking questions about alternative scenarios. Mr President, if you want to have very serious international discussions with a very difficult opponent who sometimes does not show good will, and often enough, then I do not know whether it is rational and wise to tell this opponent here what I intend to do in one way or another. What really is the negotiating field? What arguments will I make? What do I suggest? It is a good thing that you didn't have these negotiations, because if you were to conduct them as you would today, so to speak, by discovering the cards, we wouldn't even have such an agreement with Russia today. Even one that's difficult and really temporary, I totally agree with that, so maybe it's a good thing that you didn't give up on this difficult task, and for that I would like to thank you. [[Minister, this is Parliament, you really should answer.]] Now, about the cost. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I have spoken to our carriers on several occasions on this subject, i.e. those who are both directly affected by the closure of the border at that time and who are hoping to be beneficiaries of this trade. They were telling me unambiguously when I had doubts whether he could give up, can he give up, can he say, well, okay, they said this to me: if we agree to this today, then in a few months we will simply not be on this market. We're just not gonna be on this market. The Russians only wanted to talk for one and a half months, only about the number of permits we were supposed to exchange. Only the number of permits we were supposed to exchange. And the fact that it took so long, it is precisely because we stood firm, with the full support of the carriers, I stress: with full support of the carriers we stood firm in the position that only when we set rules, when we tell ourselves how transport between Poland and Russia will be defined, what documents will be required to document these transports, will we start talking about the number of permits exchanged. That's what worked. That's what worked. I don't attribute to what happened, some great success. We just did a tough thing. It was successful that the Russian Federation undertook to amend its legislation and a specific moment was set - on 18 March the Minister of Transport of the Russian Federation is to sign the relevant regulation. The second stage of ratification, the stage of the Ministry of Justice of the Russian Federation, has not been defined. There is also a second date, which is crucial in this agreement, on April 15th. On 15 April, they will lose the power of the permit we have exchanged with the Russian Federation. Both sides, and we, and the Russian Federation, are fully aware that by then we will either communicate or both, I stress: both sides will suffer losses. I do not know why you do not wonder what the Russian side has suffered. [[Because we're in the Polish Parliament.]] Yeah, but in order to negotiate properly, that's what we need to assess both sides' risks. Not to put our cards on the table, as you propose, but to think well about the risks that both sides have, what they might lose. On the other hand, I'm going to say yes. Ladies and gentlemen, our neighbours in the east are Lithuania, the Russian Federation, Belarus and Ukraine. As far as our transport relations with Belarus are concerned, we exchanged permits with Belarus in a situation where we had such an acute conflict with Russia. It is precisely so that there are no accusations directed to us that in an artificial way, we are blocking trade with Russia in order to only play for Polish interests. No. We have passed permissions to Belarus, Belarus has even given us permissions before, and there are no obstacles at the Polish-Belarusian border when it comes to transport. As far as Ukraine is concerned, we are in contact with Ukraine. I will not talk about those situations that took place in Ukraine, especially in its western part, concerning the passage of Russian trucks, what was happening there. Both Kiev and other authorities are cutting themselves off from these situations. All I can say is that tomorrow I have an appointment with the Deputy Minister of Transport of Ukraine and we will talk about further developments. At the beginning of March I also intend to meet with my counterpart in Belarus and Lithuania to consult on this situation before we engage with the Russian Federation, which will probably start at the end of March or at the beginning of April, so that we also have a recognised position of our other neighbours, through whom international transport to Russia can flow. I would also like to mention one more important thing. Well, I do not know why he insists on some commitments, that the Polish party would take them on the issue of bringing fuel to Poland, concessions with regard to the Russian Federation. The agreement only says yes... Please accept that, it may be difficult to accept, but that's the facts. The fact is that the Ministry of Infrastructure will apply to the Ministry of Finance. That's the record. This provision concerns a new agreement to be concluded with the Russian Federation. The presentation of the draft contract is about half a year. So, ladies and gentlemen, these are... I am aware that Mr Olszewski is aware of this. These are difficult, multi-storey, multi-faceted negotiations. If you want me to tell you today what the Polish Government will do if the Russian Federation does so anyway, then I will not answer this question, but above all because this is not the case in international talks. We do not talk in Parliament about negotiations, details, tools, what we want to be guided to achieve our goal. And what's our target? I have emphasized this repeatedly in the speeches for the media, speaking to our carriers when they asked me what the negotiating objectives of the government were, I also said this directly to our partners from the Russian Federation. Our goal in these negotiations is to ensure that the conditions for Polish transport, and thus the access of Polish goods and services to the Russian market, do not deteriorate as a result of unilateral changes in the law made by the Russian Federation, which are contrary both to agreements, to agreements between Poland and the Russian Federation, and to international agreements referred to here also several times. On the other hand, we are a member of the European Union and, of course, of all these very difficult negotiations, we have informed both Commissioner Bulc responsible for transport and other authorities of the European Union about this matter. There's an interest in it. There will be a conference at which we will present all aspects of these negotiations, the problems involved. This will be used by the European Union authorities during discussions [[♪ The bell ♪]] with the Russian Federation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u106	Thank you, Minister. This statement concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda... [[Your Marshal, may I correct you? The Minister has repeatedly referred to my statement.]] You're welcome, but in terms of corrigendum.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u107	Yes. Minister! If we are talking about negotiating positions, with all due respect, but I have quite limited confidence in your negotiating capacity, because according to your statement and according to your analysis, the state has already declared de facto commitment from the Polish budget about 800 million PLN, because we need to empathize with the situation of Russia. With all due respect, we do not need to get into the situation of Russia, because our situation for us and our carriers is and should be the most important. But if you say that you will not give information and answer questions in the Polish Parliament, because you are conducting very complex negotiations with Russia, with all due respect, but your negotiating position is zero, because you need to know the mentality and Russian policy to know that if you are straining and devastateing your relations within the European Union, with the European Commission, and then you go for help and get a public response, the Commissioner for Transport Violeta Bulc's statement that the European Commission is not going to help Poland in this area and is counting on your negotiating capacity, then you are very clear and precise in this situation how much you have to say to the Russians. And since you gave away the giant money for free, for which all Polish taxpayers will pay, for me it is a thing Unacceptable.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u108	That was not quite correct, sir. This statement concluded the consideration of this item on the agenda. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Public Finances on governmental draft laws on: - amending the Act on Investment Funds and certain other laws - amending the Act on Public Offering and the Conditions of Introduction of Financial Instruments to Organized Trading, and on Public Companies and Certain Other Acts (Prints No. 69, 70 and 266). I ask Mr Wiesław Janczak to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u109	Good morning. Mrs. Marshal! Thank you kindly for inviting me to the podium. My name is Janczyk. We don't meet much, but I'd like to ask for the right...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u110	I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u111	...a transcript for the transcript. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I rarely do this, but today I have decided, as rapporteur of a document that has been worked in the Parliamentary Committee on Public Finance and in the extraordinary subcommittee specifically set up for consideration of these projects, to bring these documents as an annex. Since the examination of the MiFID Directive in the High Sejm, I have not remembered such extensive documents. There was a powerful intellectual work of legal services, people employed in the finance department, and then all the ladies, Members of the Committee on Public Finance and Emergency Sub-Committee, because the Polish Parliament sent two draft laws to this committee: a draft law on amending the Act on Investment Funds and some other laws and a draft law on amending the Act on Public Offering and the Conditions of Introduction of Financial Instruments to Organized Trading and on Public Companies and on certain other laws. Ladies and gentlemen! A lot of work has actually been done. It lasted even longer than expected. In the end, we acted a little under pressure of time at the request of the Marshal of the Sejm, which he had appointed, he also moved, although slightly, for which we thank, further deadlines for preparing the report of the Committee on Public Finance in this respect. The report was prepared at one of the last meetings of the Committee on Public Finance and adopted unanimously. Thank you very much for the work that has been done in this regard. I thank you for your commitment not only to the legal services of the Sejm, to the representatives of the Ministry, but also to the institutions that have followed with great interest the process of preparing this report, which was intended to implement European Union law in this area. Ladies and gentlemen! This report was concluded and submitted to the High House in Parliament's printing No 266 and contains the combined work on these two draft laws, which I mentioned at the outset. As I said, it was adopted unanimously. Let me just add that the work on these documents took months and began in the previous term. It wasn't finished, and then those deadlines that we were obliged to implement were passed. Nevertheless, today we are in the middle of second reading and proceding is gaining momentum. I think this document will soon have a chance to leave the Sejm, go to the Senate and be signed by the President. Ladies and gentlemen! So much for me as rapporteur for the Parliamentary Committee on Public Finance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u112	Thank you, sir, and once again I am very sorry for... [[No problem.]] I'm so sorry. I'm opening a discussion. On behalf of the clubs, we will listen to five-minute speeches. Mr Wiesław Janczyk will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u113	Thank you very much, Marshal. At the moment, acting in a new role, on behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I have the honour and pleasure to present the position of the club with regard to the report of the Parliamentary Committee on Public Finance in print No 266. I would like to remind you that it contains a combined report on two projects which have entered into the proceedings of the Sejm: contained in print No. 70 on the amendment of the Act on Public Offering and the Conditions for Introducing Financial Instruments to Organized Trading and on Public Companies and on certain other laws, together with draft implementing acts and draft Act No. 69 on the amendment of the Act on Investment Funds and certain other laws. The main objective of the draft law amending the Investment Funds Act was to implement Directive 2011/61 of the European Parliament on Alternative Investment Fund Managers and Directive 2014/91/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities as regards the functions of depositary, remuneration policy and sanctions. The second document, the next document, consisted mainly of the implementation of Directive 2013/50/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council in the Polish legal order. The aim of this Directive is also to strengthen the system of penalties and administrative measures for infringement of the directive, which should contribute to the security of trading on the capital market and to the protection of investors in Poland. Ladies and gentlemen! During the process of this document, we accepted numerous amendments to the original version of the submission, which were tabled, inter alia. from the Association of Polish Banks, from the Polish Association of Capital Investors, from representatives of various institutions participating in the exchange, supervising this turnover, such as the Financial Supervision Commission, self-corrections coming from, because it is a government project, from the Ministry, tips from the Legal Office. We had the full ambition of creating a good document, which will be transparent, although we are aware that it is a comprehensive and appropriate document to examine and implement it will take a long time. This will be a challenge for the stock exchange, for brokerage offices, for investment fund associations, for people who invest their clients - institutional and individual customers on a daily basis. Our job is to protect investors, create the best conditions for competitiveness. We believe that this work will contribute to raising standards on the market, to raising safety standards, integrity, ethics, which are essential elements that determine the interest in the capital market, that companies can raise capital safely entrusted by individual and institutional investors. A number of really numerous environmental proposals have been taken into account, of course not all. Maybe I should just say that the discussion was about establishing the appropriate levels of representation at the general meeting, which, for example, gives the possibility to withdraw the company from the market, leaving, as if without the possibility of already objective sales through the exchange of remaining smaller shares. The discussion also consisted of postulates that went beyond the implementation sphere itself, among others. The association of Polish Banks reported its demands on the function of depositary, which banks often perform, and its relations with investment fund associations, issues of responsibility, calendar, withdrawal from commitments, contracts, responsibility for management in situations where problems arise, controversy. We have tried to listen to the voice of the environment, and I hope that we have done this in a responsible and far-reaching way - I am speaking here on behalf of the Law and Justice Club, which has had a decisive majority and an emergency subcommittee, and a finance committee. I can only assure you that if there are demands from the environments that will have to [[♪ The bell ♪]] implement these documents, they will certainly be included in the work of the Committee on Public Finance, and I believe that this document will contribute to improving the security and competitiveness of Polish entities operating on the capital market. Last sentence. We have also taken into account the fundamental demands of brokers' environments, fund management chambers: reducing appropriate penalties and fees for infringements of the relevant rules, meeting the voice of this environment. Thank you very much for your attention and I would like to mention that to this project I would like to place on your hands two more amendments at second reading on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u114	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u115	Position of the PO Parliamentary Club on the draft law amending the Investment Funds Act and certain other laws, print No 266. During the legislative process on draft laws on: - amendment of the Investment Funds Act and certain other laws - print No 69, - amending the Act on Public Offering and the Conditions for Introducing Financial Instruments to Organized Trading, and on Public Companies and Certain Other Acts - print No. 70 decided to merge these projects into a single draft Act amending the Act on Investment Funds and some other laws. The draft laws aim to implement directives of the European Parliament and of the Council into the Polish legal system. They address the following issues: - managers of alternative investment funds, - the activities and supervision of institutions for occupational retirement provision, - coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities, - harmonisation of transparency requirements for information about issuers whose securities are admitted to trading on a regulated market, - a prospectus published in connection with a public offer or admission to trading of securities, - coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities as regards the functions of depositary, remuneration policy and sanctions. The draft laws have been prepared by the PO-PSL government and have been subject to a broad public consultation since the beginning of 2015. As a result of the consultation, good draft laws have been prepared which adapt difficult EU rules to Polish law. The current government adopted the vast majority of the regulations contained in these projects and directed them to the marshal's staff. The purpose of the AIFM Directive is to establish an internal market for alternative investment fund managers, i.e. managers of all types of funds which are not covered by the Directive. The most important decisions contained in the project are to determine the scope of the entities to which the regulations required by the AIFM Directive will apply. The rules do not create new forms of legal activity, but include in terms of entity the forms of activity covered by the AIFM Directive that are identified on the national market. The Act sets out the conditions and organisational requirements for AIFMs acting on the basis of authorisation, including the obligation to develop remuneration policies, to prevent conflicts of interest, to protect information and to manage risk. In general, the Public Offering Directive aims to improve the effectiveness of the existing transparency system, in particular as regards disclosure of information on the ownership of the company. It also strengthens the system of penalties and administrative measures for infringements of the directive, which will positively increase the safety of trading on the capital market and, very importantly, protect investors. At this point it should be stressed that the proposed system of administrative penalties and sanctions, and in particular their amount of up to 8 million PLN, met with great criticism. It was rightly argued that the level of the proposed penalties, although maximum, is not adequate to the conditions of the Polish capital market. It does not correspond to the size of companies listed on the Warsaw Stock Exchange. This would pose a real risk of reducing the competitiveness of the Polish capital market and reducing it. The PO Club has been in favour of significantly reducing penalties and adapting them to the reality of the Polish capital market since the beginning. It therefore welcomes the changes made in this area. The lower amounts of penalties proposed are still severe under Polish conditions and will be an effective and effective instrument to counter the violation of the law. To conclude, the Parliamentary Club supports the bill and will vote in favour of its adoption.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u116	The draft law on amending the Investment Funds Act and some other laws was a chance to create attractive conditions for investment funds in Poland. It could be the basis for a new competitive formula to invest in innovative ideas in our country. Unfortunately, as lately, there has been a lack of imagination, desire, or perhaps at the end of time. The proposed rules will implement in Polish law in principle only EU regulations, while at the same time they could significantly regulate the domestic market of investment funds. The Modern Posel Club agrees with the need to implement directives of the European Parliament and of the Council, but opposes not taking advantage of the opportunity to create better investment conditions in our country. The effect of the amendment should be to stimulate alternative sources of funding to banks, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, to expand investment offers and to stimulate competition on the domestic capital market. We have suggested, for example, adding the possibility of investing within the family office, but this simple amendment was rejected by the committee. Or just because she was reported by the opposition? In conclusion, the law introduced should have attracted, not deterred professional investors from investing in Poland, who currently do not choose to be present in over-regulated markets (so-called. overegulated markets). As I mentioned, the effect of the amendment of the law should be to expand the investment offer and, while ensuring an adequate level of security, to stimulate competition on the domestic capital market, which would increase the innovation of the Polish economy. Despite this, the Posel Club of Modern Poland will vote in favour of the proposed project, but we do it out of concern for Poland, because of the need to adapt our law, not because of the real admiration of the draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u117	High Izbo! Mr. Marshal! On 1 December 2015 two projects were submitted to the Polish Parliament: - Government draft law amending the Investment Funds Act and certain other laws - print No 69, - Government bill amending the Act on Public Offering and Conditions of Introduction of Financial Instruments to Organized Trading, and on Public Companies and Certain Other Acts - print No 70. On 28 January 2016, a resolution was adopted on the Committee on Public Finance to consider both projects jointly. On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I analyse the above laws on the agenda. The Investment Funds and Alternative Investment Fund Management Act sets out rules for the operation of financial institutions managing these funds in Poland, established in a country or a country of the European Union or outside. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1a 2 identify entities whose activities are not alternative investment fund management. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 3 (1) (a) 4 the formula for the activity of investment funds on the Polish market is defined, i.e. we distinguish: 1. investment funds open; 2) Alternative investment funds: (a) an open specialised investment fund, (b) an investment fund closed. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The tasks of the companies and managers of an alternative investment company and the depositaries respectively have been defined. They are to act independently and in the interests of the participants in the investment fund and investors of the alternative investment company respectively. I'm going to quote the article anyway. Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1. The subject matter of the company is solely the creation, management and representation of open investment funds or foreign funds, including intermediation in the sale and redemption of units, and the management of a collective portfolio of securities. Art. Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation That's right. With the permission of the Commission, the company may extend its activities to the creation of specialised open investment funds and closed investment funds, to the management of these funds, (...), for example, to intermediaries in the sale and redemption of units. The Act identifies specific situations where the Financial Supervision Commission may inter alia. require the fund to change its external valuer. The Commission may also revoke the authorisation to manage funds, etc. The entities operating on the Polish market must conclude a civil liability insurance contract for damage caused by failure or improper performance of their obligations related to the management of funds. The content of the draft law was consulted and consulted with the most important state, public, social and private institutions. The Act proposes the addition of provisions to implement undesirable behaviour related to the operation of investment funds and lists or amends certain types of offences which have been supplemented or modified by the signs of infringement set out in the Order or prohibition of proceedings, as pointed out in its position of 22 December 2015 by the Attorney General. A significant number of new draft implementing acts for this project should be indicated (Print No 69, part. 2.: The Minister of Justice defines, among others, how to keep the register of investment funds. The Finance Minister's regulation sets out the modalities and conditions for the conduct of intermediaries in the sale and redemption of units and titles of participation, as well as investment advice in relation to such instruments. The Minister of Finance shall determine the requirements for the development of remuneration policies in association with investment funds. The same Minister shall also determine the manner, mode and conditions of operation of the entities concerned, e.g. a formal manner of customer service, such as the provision of investment advisory services or the receipt and transfer of orders for the purchase or disposal of financial instruments. There is a regulation on the reporting of investment fund associations to the Financial Supervision Commission. Implementing act on technical measures and conditions for the transmission of information to committees. Summary: The draft law amending the Investment Funds Act and some other laws of the Sejm addressed to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration. The Act is intended to ensure supervision of alternative investment funds and the implementation of European Union rules. The aim of the amendment is to increase the security of investors and counterparties in these funds. Kukiz'15 Poselski Club has reviewed its position on the contested law. The bill introduces EU regulations into Polish law, i.e.: - the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive (the AIFM Directive) concerning inter alia: defining the way and scope of these funds' activities, - Directive on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities (UCITS) where there are regulations specifying the tasks and obligations of depositaries, such as liability in the event of the loss of financial instruments. The government bill amending the Act on Public Offering and the Conditions for Introducing Financial Instruments to Organized Trading and Public Companies and Certain Other Acts on 4 December 2015 was addressed to first reading in the Committee on Public Finance. Print No 70 also contains draft implementing acts. The draft law provides for the implementation of European Union law. Most important changes: The amendment has been made to determine what the public offer is (Art. 3. It specifies where the funds are to influence the recording of shares (Art. 5a). There are also new records, such as: An entity authorised in the Member State concerned to apply for such authorisation Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2. The designer added the so-called. the issuer's registration document (Art. 22 (a) to distinguish it from a tender document, i.e. information on securities to be offered to the public or admitted to trading on a regulated market. It is critical to look at the unfulfilled request, which was written as a discrepancy during the consultation, so-called. agreement conference of 27 February 2015 The case concerns the definition of indirect acquisition of shares. The State Treasury has been exempted from the obligation to disclose the holding of shares of public companies. On the one hand, it is an asset for a public shareholder, and on the other hand, the lack of a full picture for other buyers of financial instruments. The argument raised by, inter alia, KNF and investor associations are the fact that all shareholders must have the same rigour on the capital market and that all trading participants should have the same rights. In summary, the draft law was widely consulted and met with numerous comments from representatives of the Polish National Bank, the Polish Financial Supervision Authority, the General Data Protection Officer, the Warsaw Stock Exchange SA, the National Securities Deposit S.A., the Chamber of Brokerage Houses, the Stock Exchange Issuers Association and the Association of Individual Investors. Most of the comments have been clarified or applied in the work on the Law. The opinion of the President of the Supreme Court of 22 January 2016 on the proposed amendments to the Act must be taken into account: "The draft is in principle in line with the objectives adopted in European Union law. The Court of First Instance pointed out that it had not been applied in the law - and this was included in one of the Directives (2004/108/EC) - liability for breach of obligations without grossness. The penalties imposed by the Financial Supervision Commission should take the form of an administrative decision. The legislators did not accept the suggestion of the court to rationalise the wording of the article. 99. 2 because in the wording proposed in Article. Point 39 of the proposal is not sufficiently precise. I quote: "Its content does not make it clear in which cases the behaviour of the perpetrator of encouraging the acquisition or entry of securities is legalised. In order to ensure the accuracy of the regulation, which is particularly desirable in the case of a criminal ban, it may be proposed to be divided into two separate provisions. One could involve encouraging the acquisition or entry of securities and the other could include other behaviours covered by the proposed prohibition.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u118	On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the committee on governmental draft laws on: - amending the Investment Funds Act and certain other laws, - amendment of the Act on Public Offering and Conditions of Introduction of Financial Instruments to Organized Trading, and on Public Companies and Certain Other Acts (Prints No. 69 and 70). The report of the Committee on Public Finances on these two government projects is the result of the large work of the Committee on Public Finance itself, as well as of the extraordinary subcommittee set up for the examination of these projects. The subcommittee presented in its report a harmonised proposal covering the issues of both primary projects. It must be stressed with the utmost recognition that the project presented today is a project of good legislation, followed in normal mode, without undue haste. The project was subject to a number of consultations and many financial market institutions participated in the work on the project in both committees and subcommittees. Thanks to this process, many ambiguities were explained, errors of order and legislation were removed and changes were made to adapt the requirements of the EU directives to the conditions of our Polish financial market. The draft law is the implementation of EU law by several EU directives. I will list the existing directives as they define the thematic scope of the project.: - Directive 2011/61/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 June 2011 on alternative investment fund managers and amending Directives 2003/41/EC and 2009/65/EC and several Regulations, - additionally Directive 2014/91/EU of 23 July 2014 amending Directive 2009/65/EC on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities as regards the functions of depositary, remuneration policy and sanctions. And then there's this: - Directive 2013/50/EU on the harmonisation of transparency requirements for information on issuers whose securities are admitted to trading on the advertising market, - Directive 2003/71/EC on the prospectus to be published in connection with the public offer or admission to trading of securities, - Directive 2007/14/EC laying down detailed rules for the implementation of certain provisions of Directive 2004/109/EC. The main objective of the law is to increase investor confidence in funds through, among others, strengthening the requirements concerning the obligations and liability of depositaries, the remuneration policy of management companies and investment companies, and the introduction of sanctions due to breaches of obligations by the company's authorities. The changes made give the possibility to monitor and monitor the risks involved, reduce the risks associated with investment in funds, and increase the security of the assets of the funds managed. The proposed changes also enable alternative investment funds based in other Member States to be managed and national alternative investment funds to be offered participation rights in other Member States. In addition, the definition of the parent country was clarified and the procedure for the issuer of that country and the notification of that choice were defined. Much of the changes proposed by a number of financial institutions have been taken into account in the course of the work on the project, and the overarching objective of the change was to increase the competitiveness of our financial market. Particular attention was paid to the draft penalty rates adopted in accordance with Union legislation. These rates were too excessive, inadequate for our Polish capital market. Keeping this size could help to reduce the competitiveness of our capital market and the interest of investors in securities investments. The reduction in rates was one of the main proposals made by parliamentarians and was welcomed by companies participating in the financial market. In conclusion, it must be concluded that the draft law meets the objectives set out in the implementation of EU law and introduces a rational proportion of solutions for our capital market. The Public Finance Commission unanimously adopted the bill and my club, PSL, will also vote in favour of this project.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u119	In view of the fact that at the time of the second reading it was submitted to the submitted... I understand you're making amendments. [[I'm already making amendments. I just need to get them out of this...]] Good. In view of the fact that at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm calling a 15-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 11 min. 42 hours 12 min 01]] I'm reopening the session. The Social Policy and Family Committee submitted a report on the parliamentary draft law amending the Act on one-off cash allowances for certain pensioners, pensioners and persons receiving pre-retirement benefits, pre-retirement benefits, bridge pensions or teacher compensation benefits in 2016. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors' Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on the amendment of the Act on income tax on individuals and the Act on income of local government units (print No 221). I ask Mr Jan Grabc to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u120	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the applicants, Members of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform, the draft law amending the Act on personal income tax and the Act on income of local government units. The need to amend the Individual Income Tax Act is apparent directly from the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 29 October 2015. The Constitutional Tribunal held that Article. The 27th Individual Income Tax Act setting income tax rates is incompatible with Article. Article 2 and Article 2 84 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland in so far as it does not provide for a mechanism to correct the amount reducing the tax, i.e. the so-called. a tax-free amount to a minimum of existence. The Court held that that provision would, in that respect, expire on 30 November 2016. The revenue from the tax on natural persons is the revenue of the state budget and the budgets of local government units. The change in the tax scale contained in the Act on Income Tax on Individuals therefore requires simultaneous amendments to the Act on Income of Local Government Units. The share of personal income tax is an important part of the revenue of self-government units. The loss of PIT revenue resulting from the implementation of the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal requires compensation on the part of the revenue of local governments. An increase in the amount of freedom without compensation for local governments would mean a radical depletion of most self-government units, and for hundreds of them would be tantamount to practical bankruptcy. On 29 November 2015, the President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Duda presented to the Sejm the bill amending the Act on income tax on individuals - on 2 December last year, the plenary of the Sejm held the first reading of this project, which was addressed to work in the Committee on Public Finance - but this project does not actually implement the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal, nor does it contain any mechanism to compensate for lost revenue to local governments. The judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 28 October 2015 points to the need to adjust the tax reduction amount to the current minimum of existence rate, but also to the need to create a legal mechanism to ensure that also in the future, as a result of price increases, there will not be a situation where the tax-free amount indirectly defined in the Individual Income Tax Act will be lower than the annual minimum of existence rate. The current minimum level of existence laid down by the Institute of Labour and Social Affairs for staff holdings is PLN 544 per month, i.e. PLN 6529 per year. On the other hand, the income criteria set out in the Social Assistance Act should be considered as a legal poverty line, precisely in Article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of this bill. This criterion is the amount of monthly income to which the person is entitled to social assistance cash benefits. Currently, the income criterion for a single economy person is determined by a regulation of the Council of Ministers, i.e. 634 PLN. PLN 7608 per year. The bill proposes the amount of tax reduction equal to the amount proposed in the bill notified by the President. This corresponds to the tax exemption of PLN 8000 per year, i.e. amounts slightly higher than the annual equivalent of the income criterion, I remind you - PLN 7608. The Constitutional Tribunal points to the need to create a lasting guarantee that the amount of tax reduction will retain its real value and, above all, will no longer fall below the minimum of existence not only when the law is adopted but also in subsequent years of application of its provisions. The bill presented to the High Sejm by the President of the Republic contains an increase of the tax-free amount to 8000, but does not contain any mechanism to increase the amount free in subsequent years. Thus, it does not actually implement the ruling of the Constitutional Court, since it does not prevent a recurrence of the real value of the amount free below the minimum of existence. The solutions proposed by the applicants - Members of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club - consist in the quota determination of the tax reduction amount in the first year of the new regulation and the introduction of a mechanism to correct this amount in the following years on the basis of the price increase rate of goods and services announced by the President of the Central Statistical Office. However, the most important drawback of the project presented by President Andrzej Duda is the lack of rules to compensate for the negative effects of an increase in tax-free amounts for local governments. In the explanatory memorandum to the presidential project, the applicant estimates that the local authorities will lose about PLN 7 billion a year, but does not propose any compensation in return. The applicant indicates in the explanatory memorandum that the expected effect of the increase in the free amount will be to increase the level of consumption and, consequently, the budgetary revenue, mainly due to VAT. Clearly, however, these revenues will not constitute any compensation for local authorities, as the legislator did not foresee the participation of local authorities in VAT. However, the increase in the free version proposed by the President is down to a very significant increase of around 20%. and a permanent reduction in the level of revenues of local governments, those income from shares in PIT receipts. Shares in income tax revenues from individuals are the largest source of local government's own income. In 2014, they accounted for more than 18% of total revenue and more than 35% of local government's own income. For municipalities, this percentage of PIT income in relation to total own income amounts to more than 33%, for powiats - more than 51%, for cities on the rights of the county - more than 37%, for voivodships - slightly more than 17%. In practice, therefore, all local governments would suffer loss as a result of the adoption of the law in the version prepared by the President's Office. Thus Warsaw would lose about 900 million PLN per year, Poznań - about 190 million PLN per year, Wrocław - over 210 million PLN per year, Gdańsk - 140 million PLN per year. They would also, of course, lose smaller municipalities and cities, e.g. Radom - PLN 45 million per year, Legionowo - PLN 13 million per year, or e.g. the powiat wołomiński - 13 mln zł per year. The introduction of amendments to the Individual Income Tax Act without any compensation adversely affecting the local government of change means a significant reduction in the revenue of the local government and a deterioration of its state and the conditions and possibilities for these local authorities to perform public tasks. This will also result in a reduction in the autonomy and autonomy of local authorities in their financial aspects. It should also be noted that the loss of revenue of local government is to take place without changing the scope of their tasks. This means a significant reduction in the investment capacity of local governments and a radical reduction in the financing of investments from own resources. As a result, it can happen. either to significantly reduce the level of investment expenditure, including the use of European funds, or to significantly increase the debt of local government units. For many local governments, however, a 20% reduction in income from participation in PIT means practical bankruptcy. The budget revenue of these local authorities will be lower than their current expenditure. The sustainability of budgets in their case would have to be linked to the abandonment of some of their own tasks not only by reducing the level of investment, but also, for example, by the liquidation of kindergartens, libraries, cultural houses, part of social benefits or co-financing of public transport. All of these circumstances lead to the conviction that the amendment to the Individual Income Tax Act leading to a reduction in local government income should be accompanied by other statutory amendments compensating local government for the loss of already planned revenues. The simplest solution should be the link with the change in the Individual Income Tax Act at the same time as the amendment in the Local Government Income Act, increasing the share of local governments in tax receipts to the extent that an increased percentage of the share in tax revenues compensates for the reduction in the overall volume of revenue. When preparing the bill, we took into account the positions of the local government organisation. They were equally critical of the draft law presented by the President of the Republic because of the lack of compensation resulting from the increase in the tax reduction amount. And so the Polish County Union in its position of 15 December writes: We remind you that according to the article. 167 of the constitutions of local government units are provided to participate in public income according to their respective tasks, so significant changes - writes the union of powiats - in the Act on personal income tax should be correlated with the changes in the Act on income of local government units, which was without question in the submitted project. And also part of the position of the Polish City Association: The most fair way of compensation would be to increase the share of local governments in PIT revenues, because the actual compensation would occur exactly where the loss occurred. The Rural Union also calls for a simultaneous amendment of the law on the income of local government units. I quote: It is necessary to increase the share of JST in PIT tax accordingly or to transfer part of the revenue of the state budget from indirect taxes, such as VAT or excise duty, to the extent that it compensates for the planned loss of revenue. Opinion of the Rural Union of 23 December 2015 We therefore propose in the submitted project an increase in the percentage shares of local government units corresponding to the total reduction of the amount of tax revenue by changing the percentages used separately for municipalities, powiats and voivodships in Article. 4, Article 5 and Article 5 6 Act on the income of local government units and formulas for the calculation of amounts for individual units regulated by Article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 One-third of the Act on the Income of Individuals. Since the need to compensate for the full amount will only occur in 2018, it is proposed to introduce a transitional provision by adding an article to the Act. 89a determining the percentage of individual categories of self-governments in 2017 corresponding to the reduction of the overall income from personal tax. As a result, the following percentage of the shares of local government units in income tax revenues from individuals are proposed: for municipalities, the share is intended to be 48,82%. , for powiats - 12,82% and for voivodships - 1,97%. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The bill presented has two objectives. Firstly, the implementation of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal on how to calculate the tax reduction amount, and secondly, the protection of the income of local government units against the negative effects of the necessary amendments to the Individual Income Tax Act. The amendments proposed in the Individual Income Act are derived from changes in the Individual Income Tax Act, as the aim of the proposed project is not, in fact, to change the level of revenue of local governments, but to maintain their current level to an extent not threatened by legislative changes resulting from the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. With this in mind, I ask the High House to decide whether to continue to proceed with this bill and to continue to work in the parliamentary committees. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo, beautiful, substantive.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u121	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Maria Zuba, Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u122	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! It wasn't until the fall. 4 days after the parliamentary elections, the Constitutional Tribunal, consisting of a vast majority of the judges nominated by the Civic Platform, decided to lean on the fate of the poorest Poles and delivered a judgment on the incompatibility of the Act on personal income tax with two constitutional articles. It happened after 8 years of running the coalition of PO and PSL, when they lost the election and it was clear that the law and justice would rule themselves. In its judgment, the Constitutional Tribunal stated that it is the duty of the State to leave the taxable person's income free of charge to the tax in so far as it is necessary to create minimum conditions for a decent human existence, only the income exceeding that amount should be subject to taxation. It should be stressed that the Constitutional Tribunal has rightly pointed out the problem, but the question arises as to why it has not been noticed by the governments of PO and PSL for 8 years or when, in the presidential campaign, candidate Andrzej Duda pointed out the need to raise the tax-free amount, which has been slightly above 3 000 for years. zł, and the then government of PO and PSL was not interested in the fate of poor Poles. After all, it is no help to raise the amount of tax free by PLN 2 during the Civic Platform and PSL. I think it's a joke. It seems that only the winning presidential elections of the candidate for Law and Justice Andrzej Duda and Parliamentary Rights and Justice have made the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal and the politicians of the PO more sensitive to human harm. But let us recall when Beata Szydło announced in the election campaign an increase of the tax-free amount as one of the priorities of Law and Justice and assured that this goal will be implemented in two, three steps, then Prime Minister Kopacz accompanied by a colleague Anna Gronkiewicz-Waltz... [[Hanny.]] ...on the platform of the Warsaw Central Railway Station, when she spread her hands, she announced to the world: raising the tax-free amount is a PiS bomb under local governments. And this is where the ruling Platform ended its activity in this area. After winning the elections, President Andrzej Duda kept his word and submitted a proposal to the High House at the end of November, including an increase in the tax-free amount from the current level of 3,000. Up to 8,000. After first reading, the project was addressed to public consultation. He's already agreed with the social commission, got a positive opinion. Today's draft Print Act 221 contains good solutions from the point of view of society and the rule of law, but does not take into account the possibility of financing the solutions adopted from the state budget - they would cost you 20 billion PLN per year - and does not specify a mechanism for real access to the level of tax-free amount accepted by the authors of the draft. The Constitutional Tribunal has set a deadline for the implementation of its judgment by 2018, so that it is possible to reach solutions that are good for citizens and for the state budget in this respect. It seems that within less than 100 days of the rule of law and justice, the PO wants to make up for its eight-year negligence. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will not support this project and will not vote for it. I submit an application on behalf of my club for the rejection of a draft law amending the Act on personal income tax and the Act on the income of local government units from print No 221. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u123	Thank you, Member. I invite Mr Jack Protas, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u124	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club has prepared a draft bill on which we are proceeding today, reacting to another legal bubble prepared by the President of the Republic. President Andrzej Duda has been sleeping around lately with drafts of laws, probably to check out the execution of further electoral promises, while at the same time bringing troublesome confusion in the ranks of his mother's party with the President in charge. However, we would not care about the problems of the PiS, if not for the fact that it was submitted on 29 November Ub. R. Draft Act amending the Personal Income Tax Act providing for an increase of the tax-free amount to 8 000. PLN will not only reduce tax revenue to the state budget by PLN 15.6 billion per year, but will also break the already very fragile financial balance of local governments, reducing their income from PIT by PLN 7.8 billion per year. The Presidential project does not provide for any compensation for local authorities. Therefore, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club proposes in its draft amendments not only to the Individual Income Tax Act, but also to the Local Government Income Act. In our project, respecting the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 29 October Ub. It is expected to increase the tax reduction amount from the current PLN 556 to PLN 1440, which is equivalent to an increase of the tax-free amount to PLN 8,000. zł, while introducing a simple and effective system to value these amounts by an increase in prices of goods and services. At the same time, in the Income Act of local government units, we propose a new share of local government in PIT revenues, suitable for the total reduction of tax revenue after the introduction of the law: in municipalities - from 39,34% to 48,82% , in powiats - from 10,25% to 12,82% and in voivodships - with 1.6% to 1.97%. The shares proposed by us will not increase the revenue of local governments, but will keep them at the current level. Local governments in Poland bear responsibility for providing residents with a vast majority of public services and generate 2/3 of infrastructure investments in the public sector. Given that in recent years they have worked out an average of 14 billion PLN each year. operating surpluses, i.e. the difference between revenue and current expenditure, the reduction of their revenue by almost PLN 8 billion per year threatens to stop investment processes and not to use funds from the current financial perspective of the European Union. And let me remind you that it is record high: from the European Regional Development Fund alone, we will receive more than EUR 80 billion. The introduction of this law without guaranteeing the increase in the income of local government units affects specific budgets of local governments. And so the tiny municipality of Kurzętnik - 708 thousand. PLN, the city of Bartoszyce - almost PLN 4 million, the city of Olsztyn - almost PLN 41 million. These are examples from the Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship, from which I come, not the richest. Therefore, in the interests of the stability of the finances of local government units and the further development and modernisation of Polish regions, we propose to adopt further the bill submitted by us. At the same time, I appeal once again to the Government of the Republic of Poland, and especially to the Minister of Finance, to return to work on a completely new draft law on the income of local government units, which will provide stable funding for this public sector under new circumstances. Let me remind you that the previous law dates back to 2003, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that was before our country entered the European Union. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u125	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Witold Zembaczyński, the Modern Club. There's no envoy. [[The modern one has nothing to say again.]] I invite Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, club PSL. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u126	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I present my position towards the parliamentary draft law amending the Act on Income Tax on Individuals and the Act on Income of Local Government Units from Print No 221. The bill submitted has two objectives. First, it implements the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal on the determination of the tax-free amount in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, taking into account at least the so-called. the minimum existence. Secondly, it introduces solutions to compensate local government units for the loss of their share of personal income tax. The first objective will be achieved, as provided for in the draft law submitted by the President of the Republic of Poland in print No 51. This project has already undergone the first reading procedure and has been addressed by the High House to work in the Committee on Public Finance. The current presidential project and project assume a tax reduction of PLN 1440 which corresponds to the tax exemption of PLN 8 000. PLN per year. For the calculation of these amounts, the indicator resulting from the income criterion authorising the receipt of cash benefits from social assistance, which appears to be a better option than the application of the minimum existence index, was used. At the same time, the judgment of the Constitutional Court indicates that the solution to this problem should be permanent. Therefore, the substance of the solution contained in this project is the determination of the tax reduction amount in the first year of the new regulation and the introduction of a mechanism to correct it in the following years on the basis of the price increase rate of goods and services announced by the President of the Central Statistical Office. This amount will be adjusted annually precisely according to the price increase rate of consumer goods and services calculated for the first half of the year preceding the tax year in relation to the same period of the previous year. The draft law also lays down the rules for rounding off the amount paid and requires the Minister responsible for public finances to publish annually, by 30 September, the amount reducing the income tax in the following year. Increase the tax reduction amount to 8 000 PLN per year will reduce the revenue of the public finance sector by almost PLN 16 billion, including a reduction of revenue of local government units by about PLN 8 billion. In the presidential project, a solution resulting in a loss of revenue of the state budget was justified by the so-called "state budget'. the multiplier effect, i.e. the increase in consumption demand, the increase in revenue from the tax on goods and services, including business tax, and thus the possibility of secondary recovery of these revenues. Unfortunately, similar compensation will not exist in the case of write-downs for municipalities, powiats and voivodships. Hence, the projecters propose to increase the target share of income from individuals in municipalities - from 39,34% to 48,46% , powiats - from 10,25% to 12,63%, and voivodships - from 1,6% to 1.97% , except that in 2017 this indicator will amount to 1.95% for voivodships. This year 2017 is a transitional period and the amendments proposed in the Local Government Income Act are derived from changes in the Individual Income Tax Act. Thus, the aim of the bill is not to change, but to maintain the current level of revenue of local government. In conclusion, the Parliamentary draft law examined, it must be said, complements the presidential project, fits well into the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal, compensates for the loss of funds [[♪ The bell ♪]] local government units and meets the expectations of the announcement of the governing party and the President of the Republic of Poland. We are in favour of directing this project to further work in committees. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u127	Thank you, Member. Seven Members have asked questions. Anyone else want to join us? [[Yes. Lassota's still here.]] Then I'm closing the list of speakers right now. As your first question, Mr Ryszard Latosiński, Club Law and Justice... excuse me, Bogdan Latosiński, Club Law and Justice. Excuse me, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u128	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It seems that the point of view depends on the point of the seat. Let me just show you how important this is. The CSO announced the level of poverty in Poland, which affects almost 3 million inhabitants. I have a question for applicants: How does the fact that for 8 years the tax-free amount has increased by only PLN 2 affect this situation in Poland, that there is such a level of poverty? The point is that this tax-free amount in Poland is one of the lowest levels in Europe. Second question: Do applicants know why the Constitutional Tribunal did not deal with this case until October 2015 and recognised the non-compliance of the article. 27 Act on Individuals Tax, Art. 2nd and 84th Constitution? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u129	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Richard Wilczyński, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u130	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm looking towards the PiS and I don't really see... And the question is addressed to all, and to the ruling party, and to the Poles. Is it true that electoral promises should be covered? I believe that this is the basic question of modern times, here and now in Poland, because it depends on what country we will live in, the modernity of our country depends on it. This question has an absolutely practical character. Citizens, too, would like to know whether they live in the PiS state at the same time. That is, if we multiply our promises, there will be question marks. It's about fulfilling them... These question marks appeared on the government side. [[What's the vocabulary, Marshal? Mrs. Marshal...]] [[Easy...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u131	You're welcome to remain calm in the O.R.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u132	The Civic Platform in its presentation says: "Dear governments, dear rulers, you are to answer questions that have emerged on the side of local governments, because they are the foundation of our country. They're the ones who need to know where they stand. On the one hand, you cannot say tax-free amount and on the other hand you cannot answer that question. Answer me, we're asking you very much. This is the role of this project. He is to call the rulers to order to answer questions by multiplying them. Remember, local governments are to create long-term investment plans, long-term financial forecasts, they are to imagine the development of our country in this perspective. They're wondering if there's gonna be any new choices today. [[♪ The bell ♪]] localised. Please answer the people, Poles, voters, people in the municipalities for this question. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u133	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Bożena Kaminska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u134	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Presidential draft amendment of the Act on Income Tax on Individuals and the Act on Income of Local Government Units, among others. assumes an increase in the tax-free amount from the current 3 000. PLN up to 8,000. PLN and verification every 3 years depending on the inflation rate. This will certainly reduce revenue in many local governments and lead to a breakdown of investment programmes that are already under way or are already planned by local authorities. Therefore, I have a question: Can participation in PIT income be insufficient for local governments to cover possible shortages and can it reduce financial flexibility and force them, in particular less prosperous local governments, to indebt themselves. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u135	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Mark Owowa, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u136	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The draft of the President of the Republic of Poland amending the Act on personal income tax, of course, on the one hand, implements the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, on the other hand severely restricts citizens' confidence and violates the democratic principle of the rule of law, because on the other hand, citizens give an amount free of 8 000. PLN, on the other hand, takes the local authorities - there are various estimates - from PLN 8 billion to PLN 9 billion to accomplish their own tasks. Many times in this room was mentioned, among others. by Mr Protas or the rapporteur for this project, that it de facto deprives the local government of the possibility of carrying out investment tasks, because this is the result of the law prepared by your President, or that it forces the local authorities to limit the performance of their own tasks, which must necessarily be done at the expense of quality. Prime Minister Beata Szydło announced and made a clear declaration at her first meeting with local government officials that there would be no loss in the income of local government units and that additional resources would be transferred to all additional tasks that would fully compensate for the costs incurred. I am therefore surprised why Mrs. Maria Zuba, a Member of Law and Justice, is making a motion to reject this law. After all, she is fully fulfilling not only the promises of law and justice, but also fully fulfilling the declaration by Prime Minister Beata Szydło. It can't be that the state on the one hand gives 350 million zlotys to the service of the great task, and on the other hand you take 8.5 billion zlotys. It's just... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Very frivolous behaviour. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u137	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Krystyna Skowronska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u138	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! At first, I'll allow myself to have a certain constatation. As one Member of the Law and Justice has said: the point of view depends on the seat point. In this context, in the context of Mrs Zuba's proposal to reject this proposal, I would just like to say that if the presidential project - a tax-free amount - was to enter into force on 1 January 2016, which does not regulate the loss created in local governments for the purpose of carrying out the so-called tasks. my own, because I want to stress this, implemented for residents and citizens in the regions, this is surprising. I would like the Minister to surprise me or take this case honestly and answer. Since you assure me there's this presidential project in the consultation, and he said... After all, he should be consulted and the period, 1 month, for the usual consultation for each project, has passed. Why don't you want to be really elegant, at least respect the opposition and conduct two projects in parallel, because these two projects are important, important, they complement each other. This should be the case. Today is another project that we have directed to the Emergency Sub-Committee on the Income Act of local government units. It is not so - it is to you from Law and Justice - that you will promise and not realize, because these promises were many. You don't want to be honest. So if we really want to talk about it, you say: "Be, ours is good." That's not nice. This is not the way to treat the opposition, but above all, this is not how to treat Poles. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Poles deserve respect. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u139	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Zbigniew Biernat, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u140	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Today we are discussing a law, which is very important from the point of view of ordinary Poles, and it is also very important when it comes to local authorities. Indeed, as you said, you have forgotten that you have ruled this country for many years. [[But you're in charge now.]] I'll just remind you how much you cared about local governments, how [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] You cared about your opinions...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u141	I'm asking for peace in the courtroom.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u142	...organizations that represent the local government. PIT tax write-off for local authorities in 2013 is 36,94% , in 2011.37.12, in 2012.37.26, in 2013.37.42, in 2014 - 37.53%. You can quote it that way, but it's 0.06 and 0.12%. . You're talking about local governments who will lose their taxes if the bill you proposed to the president comes in. This appreciation in your performance during this period for the units for which PIT amounted, for example, to PLN 10 million in a given year was an increase of 12 000 in the following year. zł. So the question is, where do you think you're going? Have you seen the needs of local governments? And second question. We are also discussing the revenue law of the local government units of November 2003. I have already said this here: for so many years you have not noticed that we are in a different reality, that local governments are spending enormously on obtaining EU funds. Then you didn't see the need to amend this law? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u143	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u144	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The bill by the Civic Platform is very much needed, because in a moment we will be proceding the President's proposal to increase the tax-free amount. These projects are very close to one another, but they differ in principle from the fact that in the President's project, which has huge negative effects on local governments up to PLN 8 billion, there is no compensation for these local authorities. Cities, all municipalities will lose a lot, e.g. Jelenia Góra will lose over PLN 18 million. In addition, adopted by the so-called PiS. The law on six-year-olds imposes on local governments additional high obligations resulting, among others. First of all, education subsidies will be reduced and second of all, there is a need to provide additional places in kindergartens, with high expenditure. And once again I will refer to Jelenia Góra - here I worked for many years in the local government - in Jelenia Góra all children were provided with places in kindergartens and nursery schools. This is not the case at the moment, and now you have to spend a huge amount of money to bring about this situation again. I have a question for the Minister. What is the financial condition of local governments, according to the Minister of Finance, when such decisions are made? Maybe there are some big reserves we don't know about. I would really ask for an answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u145	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Józef Lassota, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u146	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! To be honest, when I listen to some of the speeches, my last hair is all over my head, out of surprise, of course. A moment ago, a Member of the Law and Justice, who had recently been a local governmentman, appeared here and said that it was wrong - what the Platform is proposing at the moment - to compensate for the losses that the local authorities would have suffered due to the introduction of this project, which the President presented. As you can see, it's easy to say, it's easy to declare. The president also promised: I'll do it, I'll do it. Of course, he made the project, he says: I have fulfilled my election promise. And the Law and Justice, which are now ruling, says: yes, of course, we will raise the tax-free amount, but we will take it away from local governments. And there is no reflection that this is a normal theft in relation to local governments. The Member said just now: where were you when these indicators grew insignificantly. Well, Mr President, I am sure you know that these indicators have been properly regulated in relation to the new tasks - according to what these additional tasks have been - these indicators have been raised. So to tell you right now that she owes everything to the Platform... It is also very characteristic: in all matters, whatever happens - the police chief, now the tax-free amount - the Platform is guilty. Finally, knock on your head and think about it, because you're the ones who are responsible for governing the state right now. Therefore, I appeal to you not to share - not just children for better and worse, [[♪ The bell ♪]] citizens for a better and worse sort, but also for you not to divide society and not for those structures that are, i.e. self-government and state. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u147	Thank you very much. Mrs Zuba, as corrected. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u148	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Your Marshal, I have a request, I beg you, let's keep our tongue clean. Versailles speaks that language? I'm really sorry. I'm sorry to hear that. I wanted to address Mr Owl's statement, who says that he is surprised why we will vote against. In my speech, I made it clear that the work on printing project 51, presented by President Andrzej Duda, is ongoing and at an advanced level. In addition, they claim that this solution will be accepted, positive both for local governments and for the state budget. Your project is really breaking the state budget. What it's like, I'd still like to know. Until recently there were places in every community in kindergartens, today it turns out that the Platform does not rule even less than 5 months and lacks seats. I'm asking you to...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u149	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u150	...they were in control of what they said. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u151	Thank you. [[Simple math.]] I asked it to be really correction mode. Please, Mr Jacek Protas.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u152	Mrs. Marshal! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I'll try the most beautiful language I'll ever...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u153	Correct, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u154	I can only do that. Well, President Duda's proposal only applies to the Income Act... [[Voice from the auditorium: Income tax.]] ...about income tax. It does not refer to the law on the income of local government units. We have therefore responded to such a project, not another, which introduces precise changes both in one law and in the other.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u155	Thank you very much, sir. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Mr Konrad Raczkowski will answer the questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u156	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to point out that there is no government position for this project, although the position of Minister of Finance can not be positive for several reasons. Namely, the project in the submitted version secures the revenue of local government units, while completely ignores the state budget, i.e. The selection mechanism is not correct and cannot be so. The Minister of Finance is working on a new... basically we have ready solutions that would secure this correction mechanism fully, both from the budgetary point of view of local government units and from the revenue point of view of the state budget. There is no such solution in this project, he is one-sided. [[Tell me more, Minister.]] This is the working phase. If we decide which one is the most effective, we will certainly present it to this project, which will be procedated. On the other hand, when it comes to increasing the tax-free amount, as I said, we will show it in due time when the final version of this project will be developed. Let me just add that the project in the version in which it is intended to be implemented assumes that the budget balance will be minus 0.22 to 20.6 billion PLN, i.e. less in local government units by 8 billion, in the state budget - 9.4. And here's what you said, I'm sorry, somebody didn't show up -- an added amount from the NFZ. Here we still have a loss of income from the National Health Fund in the amount of approx. 3 billion PLN and they can not be missed. So that compensation should still be brought here. Regarding the answer to Mrs Zofia Czernow's question, what is the financial condition of local governments. It's different. In my opinion, some local authorities should have started debt restructuring a long time ago, which has exceeded the scope for rational spending policy for several years. Thank you. [[It's regulated by laws here, Minister.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u157	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Jan Grabc.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u158	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Thank you very much for these questions, although the announcement of a proposal to reject this project at first reading by the PiS Parliamentary Club seems to me to be a completely incomprehensible announcement. This project, which we have proposed, is actually a hand drawn to the government and the President of the Republic. A project that involves raising the amount of free money to 8,000. zł, is the election promise of the PiS repeatedly repeated by the Prime Minister and the President. For us, of course, the judgment of the Constitutional Court, which came three months ago, is essential, and that is what we refer to in our project. The project presented last November by the President contains a huge, colossal mistake. It poses a threat to the existence of local governments in Poland. From a formal point of view, you will not even be able to improve this project if you were to process it, because it contains changes only in the Personal Income Tax Act. Therefore, with regard to the changes concerning a completely different law - the law on the income of local government units, their implementation on the basis of this presidential project would be criminal from a legislative point of view. Therefore, our project, the proposal to process these projects together, is really an opportunity to correct President Andrzej Duda's mistake, an error that concerns local government environments throughout Poland, which have taken negative positions loudly and clearly with regard to this project. Local government officials who are also sympathetic to Law and Justice are concerned. You, as parliamentarians, know that very well. Therefore, the proposal to reject this project is de facto rejecting the chance to rectify this mistake made by the President. Of course, we have warned that raising the amount of free without compensation for local governments will have dramatic consequences. And we talked about this honestly and during the debate on exposé - the Prime Minister did not answer these comments and these questions about compensation for local governments then, she has not answered in writing so far, even though she declared that these written answers would be given - and during the debate, during the first reading of the presidential project, we also asked the same question about compensation for local authorities. At that time, the Minister representing the President's Office announced that the president had promised only to increase the amount of free money during the election campaign. He didn't promise to compensate the local government. This is, of course, an absurd point of view, which is why I am pleased that the Ministry of Finance is also critical of the presidential project. Today, the Minister confirmed it. And these critical remarks have become the basis for the project we are currently discussing, the Civic Platform project. A call to the parliamentarians of Law and Justice: try to look at this project without this party logo, without the assumption that it is a political project. This is a hand drawn to you so that this error can be corrected and that good law can be adopted, in line with your intention, but at the same time not harming local governments. You can't keep your electoral promises by paying out of government pockets. Putting your hand in the pocket of local governments is simply dishonest. I welcome these declarations by the Minister. I hope that the solutions prepared by the Ministry of Finance will be in the spirit of our project, not the project of President Andrzej Duda. And once again, I call for the question of voting on this bill to be proceded, because it is a non-political project, but a substantive project that allows President Andrzej Duda to correct his mistake. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u159	The discussion is closed... Yes? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u160	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! One sentence of correction. I wasn't talking about the presidential project, I was talking about the project we discussed today. Then I'd like to be clear and clear... [[Voice from the room: But these records are...]] ...tell me. The correction mechanism was discussed Just about the form he was in today's bill... [[Voice from the room: These are the same designs.]] ...presented. Thank you. [[Don't be afraid.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u161	Thank you very much... [[Don't be afraid.]] ...then there's a corrigendum. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u162	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present my position on the draft law contained in print No 221 on the amendment of the Act on income tax on individuals and the Act on income of local government units submitted to the Marshal's staff by Members of the Civic Platform. This bill is intended to increase the so-called. the amount free resulting from the ruling of the Constitutional Court of 29 October 2015 which states that the Article does not conform. Article 27 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Act of 26 July 1991 on income tax on individuals setting income tax rates in so far as it does not provide for a mechanism to correct the tax reduction amount guaranteeing at least the minimum existence, with Article. Article 2 and Article 2 84 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland. At the same time, the Constitutional Tribunal stated in its judgment that that provision would expire to the extent indicated on 30 November 2016. It should also be noted at this point that their statutory draft amendments to the regulation of the amount were submitted by the Modern Posel Club and the President of the Republic of Andrzej Duda. It is worth noting that print No 221 refers to two very important and interrelated issues, namely the increase of the tax-free amount and the resulting loss of revenue of local government units, whose budget depends to a large extent on these revenues. However, before we proceed with the analysis of the provisions of the project, I would like to ask Members of the Civic Platform why the issue of raising the tax-free amount was dealt with only after the surrender of power and not by the previous two terms. Did you not see at the time of government that the increase in the amount of free money that we are talking about is necessary in order to prevent poverty in society? Why didn't you try to use this tax mechanism to help the poorest? Was the judgment of the Constitutional Court necessary for this? There will be more questions, because it is impossible to explain the logic of the procedure, in which the Civic Platform did not vote against the State's deadly law 500+, and even called for this social addition to cover even every child, which would involve budget expenditure of more than PLN 40 billion per year. Ladies and gentlemen, where is your credibility? The political party, which has already been in power once and built the budget itself, should not support solutions that threaten the sustainability of public finances. How, in view of this, to finance the increase required by the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal in the amount free to the amount proposed in the draft law at the level of 8 000. PLN when costs reach the level of PLN 8 billion on the part of the state budget and PLN 8 billion on the part of local government units? After reading the print No 221 submitted by Members of the Civic Platform, the Modern Club makes the following comments to it: 1. In this draft law you have written down an amount which reduces the tax permanently in the amount of PLN 1440, while at the same time writing down a way of correcting the amount which is not sufficiently precise. Ladies and gentlemen, this is where we make the law. Do you want to create a wrong law that allows for different interpretations, or do you want to create a clear and understandable law? Modern in its project proposed a method of calculation based on variable algorithm, which will allow to increase the amount free of income tax in a predictable way for the following years. 2. The calculation of the income tax-free amount for individuals determined on the basis of the CPI, i.e. the price increase rate of consumer goods and services, so-called. the consumer inflation index. This indicator is calculated monthly by the Central Statistical Office. However, as the National Chamber of Auditors points out in its opinion, the use of the CPI may lead to difficulties in estimating revenue and instability in constructing the budgets of local government units. In a similar tone, the Civic Platform Commission also speaks of the proposed law notified. Public Finances of the Association of Voivodships of the Republic of Poland. 3. While remaining using the CPI, according to the Modern Club, it will not be fully objective, as will the minimum existence rate defined by the Institute of Labour and Social Affairs. In the project presented by the club, the modern amount depends on a minimum of existence index, which will be more meaningful. 4. The issue of the participation of local government units in these revenues, which constitute a significant part of the budget of the individuals mentioned, is extremely important in the construction of laws on taxes on individuals. As in its opinions, it notes both the Committee on the Environment and Climate Action. public finances, as well as the National Chamber of Auditors as a result of the proposed change of local government units will lose a significant part of their own income, and additional concern is the fact that the differences are to be covered by subsidies. Such a solution, in the absence of changes in the method of calculating subsidies, i.e. the calculation of subsidies unchanged, will result in a real reduction in the value of the budgets of local government units. 5. It is also worth noting that the percentage share proposed by the Civic Platform in income does not offset the real losses that local governments will suffer as a result of changes in the law, as indicated above. The Civic Platform assumes that the percentage share should increase over time, which will not compensate for the reduction of tax revenue. It is also worth mentioning the proposed values. The platform calls for an increase in the share of the tax for municipalities to 48,82% in the end. , powiats - 12,82% and voivodships - to 1,97%. Really looking at your proposals, we already know that they will lead to a reduction in government revenue from PIT tax. Members of the Civic Platform, do you want local governments not to be able to carry out their tasks because of lack of resources? Modern assumes an increase in the share of PIT income to 49,9% for municipalities, 13.6% for powiats and 2,12% for voivodships, which will keep the level of income from PIT tax for local government units at the current level. In view of the above, I refer on behalf of the Modern Club to refer the project after first reading to committee work.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u163	A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Report from the Social Policy Committee and the Family on the draft law amending the Act on one-off allowance for certain pensioners, pensioners and persons receiving pre-retirement benefits, pre-retirement benefits, bridge pensions or teacher compensation benefits in 2016 (prints No 258 and 267). I ask Mrs Beata Mazurek to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u164	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the draft law amending the Act on one-off allowance for certain pensioners, pensioners and persons receiving pre-retirement benefits, pre-retirement benefits, bridge pensions or teacher compensation benefits in 2016, print No 258. I would like to remind you that the Marshal of the Sejm sent a draft law by Law and Justice to the Social Policy Committee for first reading on 23 February 2016. This reading took place yesterday. I will also remind you that the project we are talking about is an amendment to the Act of 15 January on one-off additions. The amendment proposed by us provides that the amount of one-off allowance will not affect the income criteria set out in the Social Assistance Act. In other words, this amount of one-off allowance, which all clubs actually accepted, will not affect the income criterion on which the right to housing allowance and the right to social assistance cash benefits depend. Although there were three projects, ladies and gentlemen, concerning this single money allowance, in fact all three clubs that submitted this project did not pay attention to the fact that this supplement should be excluded from this income criterion. And in our view, in the assessment of Law and Justice, the monetary allowance that we have adopted is a one-off instrument of support for low pension and pension beneficiaries, and should therefore not affect the income criterion on which the right to benefits I have been talking about, i.e. housing allowances or social assistance benefits is dependent. In view of the one-off nature of the additives, it is justified to amend the Act establishing this Appendix without the need to amend the provisions on social assistance and housing allowances. Since the Social Policy Committee has unanimously assessed this proposal, I propose that the Sejm adopt the report without amendments to print No 258. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the law, if adopted, shall enter into force on the day following its adoption with effect from 1 March 2016. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u165	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. I would ask Mrs Urszula Rusecka to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u166	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice regarding the Act amending the Act on one-off cash allowances for certain pensioners, pensioners and persons receiving pre-retirement benefits, pre-retirement benefits, bridge pensions or teacher compensation benefits in 2016, print No 258. The proposed law constitutes an amendment to the Act of 15 January 2016. Predicted in WW. The single supplement payment bill will support a wide group of pensioners and pensioners - let me remind you that about 6.5 million people will cover this benefit - who today receive relatively low, very low benefits. It is this one-time supplement that complements the valorization of the pension. The amendment proposed in the proposal therefore provides that the amount of the single allowance will not affect the income criterion laid down in the Social Assistance Act of 12 March 2004. The proposed amendment also allows for a reduction in the amount of the one-off income criterion justifying the grant of a housing allowance under the Housing Supplements Act of 21 June 2001. In view of the one-off nature of the additive, it is justified to amend the abovementioned. a law establishing this supplement without amending the Social Assistance Act and the Housing Supplements Act. In view of the above, the Law and Justice Club fully supports the bill cited above. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u167	Thank you very much. I would ask Mrs Anna Białkowska to speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u168	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In January, we examined the bill on one-off cash allowances for some pensioners, pensioners and beneficiaries of pre-retirement benefits, pre-retirement benefits, bridge pensions or teacher compensation benefits in 2016. Let me remind you that the government of Ewa Kopacz in the previous term has prepared a preliminary draft of this law. The coalition of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party has also prepared funding. All you had to do was use it. Today we are investigating amendments to the solution adopted a dozen or so days ago. This means nothing less, but that the Law and Justice Act was prepared without thought, without even trying to understand the essence of its records. In the Act of 15 January 2016, you overlooked that this good solution could have a negative impact on the granting of other benefits to pensioners, i.e. a one-off allowance could be included in the income, which would result in the loss of benefits in many cases, i.e. housing allowances or social assistance allowances. After a dozen days, you have understood the lack of logic in your bill and you are asking for an amendment. Right. If the law had been properly prosecuted, these errors would have been caught in the legislative process. It's a clue for the future, ladies and gentlemen. The Civic Platform has already prepared a bill, in many cases more favourable. We think that helping seniors, though too low here, is very much needed. We are convinced that such one-off support cannot in any way take away the possibility of using other forms of aid. The Civic Platform Club will vote in favour of the amendments tabled in the print project No 258. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u169	Thank you very much. I will ask Mr Jerzy Kozłowski to speak on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u170	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to present the position of the Kukiz club in relation to print number 258. The pension system in Poland is defective and every pensioner knows that his pension is not what he has worked for years. A one-time supplement will in fact not change much in the lives of Polish pensioners. This is a one-off allowance. Three designers have surpassed their promises, and no one has thought about introducing a provision that is now subject to amendment. Since, if there was no amendment, there would be a total complication of many benefits paid and there would be additional taxation, it is clear that such an amendment must be introduced. Kukiz will therefore support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u171	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Augustynowska, please speak on behalf of the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u172	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As my predecessors have said, they pointed out in a hurry, to writing another bill on the knee, in fact, in the case of proceding the bill on the allowance for pensioners and pensioners we had a crazy political race. Three clubs reported almost identical projects and none of the clubs, despite their previous parliamentary experience, noticed such significant legislative errors. This is a signal, ma'am, that you cannot quickly create a good law, a law that will benefit. As we pointed out at the beginning, the basis for the valorisation of pensions on the inflation rate is simply unfavorable, as we have an example. As if the consequence of this is the need to grant allowances. Ladies and gentlemen! We call for the legislative process to be spread out in time in the future so that it can be consulted so that ambitions regarding power, taking over power, blaming each other, who will do better, otherwise who will give more by 50 PLN, do not guide what we are really here for - so that the law serves our citizens so that it does not really need to be amended after 10 days. This is another example of the consequences of rapid proceding. We had the first example in the case of tax on checks. There, too, after 10 days, an amendment was required. Of course, we will support this project because it would grossly introduce a certain inconvenience for people who would... change the purpose of the entire bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u173	Thank you very much. I would ask Mr Krystian Jarubas to speak on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u174	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I am pleased to present my position on the report of the Committee on Social Policy and Families on the draft law amending the Act on a one-off allowance for certain pensioners, pensioners and persons receiving pre-retirement benefits, pre-retirement benefits, bridge pensions or teacher compensation benefits in 2016, print No 258. Ladies and gentlemen! In January, we adopted the bill that we're updating today. And it is good that this amendment is taking place because the amendment provides that the amount of the single allowance will not affect the income criteria laid down by the Social Assistance Act of 12 March 2004. The proposed provision also allows for a reduction in the amount of a single income supplement justifying the granting of a housing allowance in this respect. Ladies and gentlemen! The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party proposed two amendments to the amended law, which included doubling the amounts for each of the eligible groups, i.e. 800, 600, 400 and 200 PLN respectively, within subsequent ranges, which would cost about PLN 1.5 billion from the state budget. Unfortunately, the investment in older people was not accepted and our amendments were rejected by a good majority of the PiS. It is good that in the assessment of project promoters, a monetary supplement is a one-off instrument to support low pension beneficiaries. It should not affect the income criterion on which the right to these benefits depends. The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party will vote in favour of the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u175	Thank you very much. The question was asked by Mrs Józef Rzczurek-Żelazko, Law and Justice. This is the only person. As a result, when the Member asks the question, this will be the end of the list of persons who are assigned to the question. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u176	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Let me remind you that these billings were brought by both Civic Platform, PSL and Law and Justice clubs. They were parallelized. I have a question: Was there in these projects the Civic Platform and PSL that we are talking about today, which Law and Justice wants to introduce? And my second question: was it possible for Members of the Parliament, both at committee meetings and at the Sejm's meetings, to refer to and possibly make comments on the draft of this law, the Members of the Modern and the Kukiz Club, to make amendments at the stage of the process of this law in January? Amendments concerning just today...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u177	Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Mr Marcin Zielenecki. Will Mrs Beata Mazurek also want to speak? There is no Member. Well, in that case, I'd like to ask a representative of the Ministry.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u178	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposal submitted to the High House for a bill amending the Act on one-off allowance for certain pensioners, pensioners and persons receiving pre-retirement benefits, pre-retirement benefits, bridge pensions or teacher compensation benefits in 2016 is, it can be said, the result of a certain oversight, which concerned all three draft laws which were the subject of legislative work, such as a draft submitted by the Civic Platform Group of Members, a draft submitted by a group of Members of the Polish People's Party and a draft submitted by the Group of Members of Law and Justice. None of these projects have regulated this issue. It can be said that the aim of this project is to avoid the taking-up of a single supplement resulting in a income threshold exceeding both the housing allowance and certain social assistance benefits, those benefits which depend on the fulfilment of the income threshold criterion. The assumption on which all three draft laws were based was that a one-off allowance of the amount laid down in the Act, i.e. in that amount, gross, would be put into the hands of the people collecting the lowest pension benefits, not subject to the obligation to pay the health insurance contribution, nor would it be subject to the tax base of personal income tax. The assumption was also that income would not adversely affect the right to benefits paid from another scheme, whether family benefits or those social assistance benefits or housing allowances. Like I said, we're dealing with an oversight. On behalf of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, I would like to say that we fully support this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u179	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. I'm ordering a recess until the hour. 13.45. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 13 minutes 18 hours 13 min 48]] I'm reopening the session. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to inform you that our deliberations are being listened to by a delegation of the Hungarian National Assembly with the vice-president of the National Assembly, Mr János Latorcai, headed by Mr János Latorcai. [[The gathered get up, give a round of applause]] Welcome to our guests. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft resolution submitted by the Sejm Bureau on the establishment of 2016 by the Year of Polish-Hungarian Solidarity (prints No 241 and 253). I ask Mrs Elżbieta Raven to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u180	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I was honored to present on behalf of the Committee on Culture and Media a report on the draft resolution on the establishment of 2016 by the Year of Polish-Hungarian Solidarity, a resolution commemorating the anti-communist uprising in Hungary and Poznań June on the 60th anniversary of these events. The project was submitted by the Bureau of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The idea of applicants was that one-sounding resolutions should be adopted by both the Senate of the Republic of Poland, it has already happened, as well as by the Sejm of the Republic of Poland and by the National Assembly of Hungary, which will adopt a resolution next week. Thus, the content of the project was established between three high chambers. The Marshal of the Sejm forwarded this project to the Committee on Culture and Media. The Commission carried out its first reading and examined the project on 24 February 2016. The Commission has adopted the draft resolution unanimously and proposes that it be adopted by the High Sejm. High Izbo! When considering this resolution, we must remember the historical relationships of Poland and Hungary. It is worth mentioning the alliance between Bolesław Krzywoust and the King of Hungary Koloman Scholar made against the expansion of the German Empire, personal union in the person of Louis Hungarian, King of Hungary and King of Poland, whose daughter St. Jadwiga was married to Władysław Jagiełła, king of Poland, Prince Stefan Batori of the Sevenfold, who led the victorious war with Russia, and the weapon of Polish Riding from that period, which was the bator's sword, 1848 and the common hero Józef Bem, in 1920, when under the bustling Bolshevik Hungary gave military aid to Poland, or finally tragic 1956, which again corrupted the history of both nations: Poznań June, when the two-day clashes on the streets of the city according to the Institute of National Remembrance killed at least 58 people, and several hundred were wounded, and Hungary, when since the rally of students in Budapest organized on 23 October as a sign of solidarity with the events of Polish October, the Hungarian revolution began. The raid was bloody suppressed by the Soviet troops, and over 2.5,000 were killed as a result of the fights. Hungarians, and about 20,000. He's been injured. After the revolution, Prime Minister Imre Nagy was sentenced to death in a secret trial and executed. The year 1956 is therefore a special year in the latest history of Poland and Hungary. The commemoration of this anniversary is also important for building our mutual relations today, because history is as important as our cooperation today, especially within the Visegrad Group. The adoption of the resolution will show how much importance our parliaments attach to building mutual relations based both on centuries-old friendship, but also on the community of interests today. High Izbo! Here is the content of the resolution on the establishment of 2016 by the Year of Polish-Hungarian Solidarity: To commemorate the 60th anniversary of the anti-communist rebellion in Poznań in June 1956 and the 60th anniversary of the uprising in Hungary in October and November 1956. The Polish-Hungarian Parliament and Senate and the National Assembly of Hungary, convinced of the special importance of these events for the common history of the two Nations, establish 2016 as the Year of Polish-Hungarian Solidarity. The heroic break between Poles and Hungarians was a manifestation of our eternal desire for freedom and protest against the enslavement of the entire region as a result of the partition of Europe imposed after World War II. Mutual solidarity and the assistance of our Nations in 1956 represent a special value to be remembered together. The resolution was adopted by the National Assembly of Hungary, the Sejm and the Senate of the Republic of Poland. The resolution shall be published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland 'Monitor Poland'. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u181	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Piotr Naimski, Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u182	Mr. Marshal! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. High Izbo! I have the honour and pleasure to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice regarding the adoption of a resolution commemorating centuries-old relations between Poles and Hungary. Indeed, these relations between us have been going on for an incredibly long time. Hungarians gave us their princesses, sometimes kings, and we had a neighbour in the south, with whom apart from the old dispute about Rus Halicka, in fact, we had no controversy. The resolution on solidarity that we are adopting, we are presenting today, we are going to adopt it tomorrow, this is a resolution that highlights the importance of this year. This is the 60th anniversary of events in June, October and early November in Budapest, tragic events. These are the days we remember today, which are remembered in Hungary as mixing Hungarian blood with Polish blood. The memory of this is in Hungary, although it is already the third generation, actually remembers it. Thank you for that memory. At the same time, what is happening in today's Europe urges us and Hungary and Poland, and in many other places in Europe, to give new meaning to the word "solidarity" - solidarity between nations. Europe is changing, the European Union is changing. When looking for a new shape, when looking for a new form of co-existence between nations and countries in Europe, it will be good if we refer to the word and the concept of the value of solidarity. In this sense, emphasising the relationship between our peoples, between ordinary people in Hungary and Poland is of particular importance. This goes beyond the current policy in our countries, it goes beyond political divisions in our countries, it goes beyond the ad hoc or sometimes ad hoc interests of our countries in the state sense, because this is friendship among nations. There's this thing, there's this phenomenon in Europe that happened between us. This is the foundation on which it is worth building, this is an example that is worth showing, it is worth reminding. It was not planned, but it so happens that today in Hungary there is a celebration, a day of memory of the victims of communism. At the same time, Poland is approaching on 1 March - the day of the cursed soldiers, the day of the steadfast soldiers. These aspects of the 20th century also connect us. I hope that this resolution that we are going to adopt, which is also being adopted in Budapest, will preserve these relationships. I appeal to the High House that we adopt this resolution by acclamation tomorrow. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u183	Thank you very much, sir. I now ask Mrs Kinga Gajewska, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u184	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Relations between Poland and Hungary go back to the Middle Ages and are determined by the geopolitical position of our countries. For a long time, we shared a common border, and it was one of the most stable European borders. Its importance has greatly influenced the fate of both Central Europe and the continent as a whole. It is difficult in the world for countries whose fates would be characterised by so many similar situations. The tradition of Polish-Hungarian friendship is also very much alive. On March 23rd we celebrate Polish-Hungarian Friendship Day. Mutual sympathy, appealing to the historical friendship of both nations, is shown by both former and present politicians. President Bronisław Komorowski said: There are few examples in the history of such a long conflictless coexistence of two nations, and Poland and Hungary worked together for the freedom of both nations. Any action for the freedom of Hungary was an activity for the freedom of Poland. Conversely, every action for freedom of Poland, among others. The election of 4 June 1989 also meant a better chance for the freedom of Hungarians. We find common fates leading to deep, mutual friendship in many events in the past. In the middle ages, we had a personal union, and we always tried to support it. During World War II, Hungary adopted more than 100,000. Polish refugees. After World War II, both Poland and Hungary belonged to the Eastern bloc, being satellite states of the Soviet Union. During this period we were also members of the Warsaw Agreement and the Council of Mutual Economic Assistance. Very important events in our common history, to which the text of the resolution refers, were the anti-communist rebellion in Poznań in June 1956 and the uprising in Hungary in October and November also 1956. The Hungarian Revolution has its roots precisely in the solidarity protests of Hungarian students with the speeches of Polish workers in Poznań in 1956. Stalin undertook a general strike under the slogan "Bread and Freedom" and organized a mass street demonstration. As a result of two-day clashes, in which a total of about 100,000 took part. At least a few dozen people were killed in the streets of the city, and several hundred were injured. About 700 people were arrested. Poznań June was the first mass revolt of workers and inhabitants of such a large city in the Polish People's Republic. Students of the University of Technology in Budapest organized a demonstration to support the demands of Poznań workers, whose aim was to express solidarity with the Polish people. The slogan was chanted: Poland shows the way... This solidarity demonstration of Hungarian students with protests of Polish workers was the cause of the uprising in Hungary, enthusiastically supported by Poles, who massed blood for wounded Hungarian fighters; in Poland more than 11 thousand came forward. blood donors. It is estimated that 44 tons of medicines and essential materials have been sent to Hungary. These demonstrations turned into an attempt to free the Soviet domination and break the communist party monopoly. Although we do not always agree politically, e.g. on Russia or climate policy, we need to look for the best solutions. Today we are given to live in a time of freedom. Communism has fallen, though its shadow continues to lie upon us. In Polish-Hungarian relations, we must remember the common interest of Central Europe - strong, but within the European Union, as an integral part of it. The strengthening of cooperation between the Visegrad Group states must not only result in the deepening of intra-EU divisions and the de-centric weakening of the European Union. We should also have a common solution to the migration crisis, but the solution is not another wall, but a common EU asylum and migration policy. To quote President Bronisław Komorowski: The Polish-Hungarian destiny community is parallel to a sense of friendship and brotherhood. Polish-Hungarian friendship, which survived 1 thousand. For years, it will last another 1 000. Years. The Civic Platform will support this resolution. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u185	Thank you very much. I will now ask Mr Paweł Grabowski from the Kukiz Club15 to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u186	Mr. Marshal! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Poselski Club15 on the resolution submitted on the establishment of 2016 as the Year of Polish-Hungarian Solidarity. Polish-Hungarian friendship is a unique phenomenon, which is difficult to look for in relations between the peoples of Europe. We come from different ethnic groups, our history varies, and yet we have so much in common. First of all, we have mutual respect both in our daily lives and in our trials, which have had a great deal in our history. Here it is worth mentioning the common provision of refuge by Hungarian and Polish kings during the early Middle Ages, but also about personal union, when after the death of Kazimierz Wielki Ludwig Andegawenski joined the Polish throne, but focusing mainly on Hungarian interests and moving Polish interests to the second plan. It is important to talk about the whole story, avoiding half-truths, because it is through mutual respect and respect for the truth that our Hungarian brothers and I are able to see our history as it really was, without falsehood and deception. The history of our nations also includes sad cards, written in blood, and filled with tears. This is a time when Hungary and Poland were not on the map when, under the yoke of the stronger neighbours then, both Hungarian and Polish nations fought for independence, fighting for survival. During these difficult trials, however, we knew that we could count on our Hungarian brothers, just as they could count on us. At this point, however, in order to satisfy the truth, we should mention that, in these difficult times of trial, we did not always have a common interest, an example of which is the conflict between the dualist and the triistic concept of the Habsburg Empire. However, various and sometimes conflicting interests have not affected our friendship, which can only prove its unique character. After World War I Hungary, although very weakened, did not hesitate to assist Poland in the Polish-Bolshevik war, which was decided by the miracle on the Vistula. It is worth remembering that the victory of Poles over Bolsheviks is an effect, among others. the support that Hungary has provided to Poland during this difficult period. It is worth remembering this, all the more so because it was the time when Poland's goal was to maintain the new status quo after World War I, and the purpose of Hungary was to overthrow and break the disgraceful dictation of Trianon for our Hungarian brothers. The period of the biggest attempt for Polish-Hungarian friendship, as well as the period during which this friendship was most clearly emphasized, is the time World War II. At that time Hungary, although in the coalition with the Third Reich, did not turn against Poland or even turned away from it. And here are the words spoken by the Hungarian Prime Minister, Mr Pál Teleki, who said that it is a matter of national honor for Hungary not to participate in any military action against Poland, which he reminded with tears in the eyes of one of the Budapest Tourist Guides during my visit to Hungary in 2012. After World War II there was a time of folk democracy, a time of misery for both Hungarian and Polish people. The time when the events that we commemorate today took place. June accidents in 1956 were an important signal for both the communist power of that time and for the other nations enslaved by popular democracy. The Hungarian people responded to this signal sent by the Polish people, rising several months later in October 1956. The heroic break of Hungarians was therefore a manifestation not only of the desire for freedom, but also of mutual solidarity, to which Poles responded with a massive action of bottom-up assistance directed to our Hungarian brothers. The events of 1956 proved, once again, that Poles and Hungarians can count on each other, and to this day, as we know, nothing has changed. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u187	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Furgo will now speak on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u188	Mr. Marshal! Dear Hungarian guests! On behalf of the Modern Club, I'd like to present our position. The proposal to establish this year 2016 as the Year of Polish-Hungarian Solidarity is an idea aimed at highlighting a strong relationship that has been linking our country with Hungary for centuries. Solidarity is a special value. Solidarity implies empathy, sensitivity, unity, but also strength and pursuit of the goal. Solidarity is a word describing Polish-Hungarian relations. We have a rich history together. The unprecedented friendship between our nations has been going on for centuries. It may be significant that the baptism of both nations was given by St. Wojciech, our common patron. The first Polish-Hungarian relations date back to the beginning of the 11th century, i.e. to the time of the reign of Bolesław Chrobre from the Piast dynasty in the area of present Poland, while Hungary was ruled by the Arpads and Stefan I Saints. The historic calendar obliges me to remind you that we are also connected by figures such as Ludwik I Andegavenski and his daughter - Queen Jadwiga, ordained by John Paul II in 1997, patron of Poland, and also by the figures of the kings of Stefan Batory and Władysław Warneńczyk. However, the overarching element of a common history is that we have always been able and can still count on each other. We saw this in particular in the 19th century, at a time when Poland was not yet on the map of Europe. In 1830, after the outbreak of the November Uprising, there was strong political and moral support from Hungary. The political and intellectual environments involved in the aid of Poland, which started the Hungarian Spring of the Peoples in 1848. It was attended by many excellent Polish commanders, e.g. General Józef Bem and General Józef Wysocki, as well as 6 thousand. Polish volunteers creating the Polish Legion. Our distinguished compatriot Stanisław Worcell in 1849 described relations between Poles and Hungary: Hungary and Poland are two centuries old oaks. Each of them fired a separate and separate trunk, but their roots spread widely beneath the surface of the earth, entangled and grew invisiblely. Hence the existence and staleness of one is another condition of life and health. We didn't always stand on the same side of the barricade, but we never stood against each other. The Hungarians presented an unusual attitude towards Poles in 1939. They said not to attempt to move German troops across their territory and attack Poland from the south. The then head of Hungarian diplomacy wrote: Mutual sympathies, which for centuries gathered together in the Hungarian and Polish nations, turned into a true but unsigned covenant, which neither the Hungarian government nor the Polish government could ignore. On the other hand, after 17 September 1939 Hungarians opened borders for Poles, accepting about 140 thousand. Polish refugees. However, what happened in 1956 has a special character for our nations. Many Hungarians and many Poles still remember this time. When Cegielski's workers protested in the streets of Poznań 60 years ago, no one expected the demonstrations to take the form of a great anti-communist break, whose climax will be moved to Budapest in October and November this year. And although the Greater Poland events were effectively covered up and silenced in a brutal way, the spark of hope for liberation from Soviet domination caused a great fire, extinguished by the safety of bullets of rifles and caterpillars on the Danube. Despite the bloody stream of widespread movement by Red Army intervention, we did not leave our brothers in need. Millions of honorary donors of blood, medicines and food collections in Poland were then supported by the victims of those brutal events in Hungary. We fought side by side to stand together against totalitarianism. We managed to do this 33 years later, gaining freedom and democracy for our countries. We have the right to be proud that no other society behaved against Hungarians like Poles. The most popular and most famous saying describing Polish-Hungarian relations is: Pole, Hungary, two nephews - and to the sword, and to the glass that is still alive among Poles as well as among our Hungarian brothers. Despite the differences between the languages we use and the origins of our nations, there is one thing that connects us above all else. Mutual solidarity. It is unique that the two nations should be so closely bound together. In Hungary, however, there is a saying: the Warsaw Express, which is used by politicians and politicians in relation to changes in Hungarian politics, often preceded by similar events in Poland. It's today. We continue to look at each other with care and sympathy. We wish ourselves the best, so we want to celebrate the Year of Polish-Hungarian Solidarity together. I am convinced that the warm relations between our nations will continue for centuries to come. At the same time, we hope that our creators, our leaders, moving side by side towards the future, will go the only way to democracy and respect for citizens. If both Hungarians and Poles do so, we will be able to build our countries calmly, knowing that there is a brother nearby who can always be counted on. Thank you very much. Modern, of course, will support the resolution. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u189	Thank you very much. Now I ask Mr Krzysztof Paszyk from the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u190	Mr. Marshal! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased on behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club to present my position on the draft resolution of the Polish Sejm on the establishment of 2016 as the Year of Polish-Hungarian Solidarity. It is difficult to disagree with the second paragraph of the project we are investigating. In very beautiful words it writes what is probably the most important, namely that the heroic break of Poles and Hungarians was a manifestation of our eternal desire for freedom and protest against the enslavement of the entire region as a result of the partition of Europe imposed after World War II. Mutual solidarity and the assistance of our peoples in 1956 represent a special value to be remembered together. The history of the Polish-Hungarian brotherhood dates back to the Middle Ages, as the previous speakers have mentioned many times, but perhaps the most important thing is what this cooperation and this brotherhood resulted from in recent history, as the second paragraph of the resolution says, just in the post-war period, extremely difficult for both Polish society and Hungarian society, so strongly experienced nations, just after the experiences of both totalitarianisms, which affected both countries. Both Poznan June and a few months later events in Hungary were probably more than just the first in the communist part Europe by general strikes or by street demonstrations. They were, in fact, the first gestures, the strong gestures of the integrity of the societies of both countries, the integrity of these societies towards the communist authorities. But these events were also - and so it is necessary to articulate - a clear signal of the freedom aspirations of Poles and Hungarians. Without this path, which both nations started in 1956, there would be no further powerful and heroic events, both in Poland and Hungary, culminated in 1989 in the regaining sovereignty by both countries. This is a full picture of these wonderful aspirations of both societies for freedom, but without these events in 1956, it would seem that there would be no belief in both societies that this is possible. In a special way, I am close to the ethos of June, 56 in Poznań, because I come from a nearby village. The memory of these June events from 1956 is still alive and cultivated by generations of cognizants, Greatpolan, but also cultivating this memory is very strongly linked to the events that took place in Hungary. I think that this is very important, important, and we must also include in commemorating the brotherhood of both nations cultivating this memory, this memory of those events. The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party will support the draft resolution on commemorating the relations of both nations - Polish and Hungarian. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u191	Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. We will vote on the draft resolution tomorrow in the voting block. Thank you very much to our guests. We proceed with the examination of item 13. of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Law on Hunting Law (print No 219). I ask Mr Robert Telus to present the reasons for the bill. You're welcome, sir. [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u192	Dear Marshals! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to present to you a law that farmers have been waiting for for many years, a law that farmers have been fighting for. They demand from us, Members, from us, the rulers, to present such a bill. The Act is supposed to be short, and only a few paragraphs, amendments, amendments, changes, but it is a law that completely changes the system of covering the costs of losses caused by wild game, a law that will change the system, as well as a good change for farmers. But she is also accepted, which we are very pleased with, by hunters. So that this is a solution that solves a very big problem, the problem primarily concerning our farmers. I will give you some insight into the changes that we are proposing in this law. The first thing is the conduct by the voivode of proceedings for the estimation and compensation of damage caused by wild boars, elks, deer, dandels and deer and damage caused by hunting. It is the voivode who will appoint a committee to estimate the damage. This is the third element that will be introduced in this entire injury assessment process. So far, hunting wheels have done this in the presence of the farmer. At the moment there will be a committee - the third element, the most objective one - which will estimate the damage. The representatives of the agricultural chambers, of course the owner of the land, i.e. the farmer, and the manager of the hunting circuit, will also be provided to participate in the inspection and assessment of damage upon written request. It will be possible for those who raise objections to the minutes of the opinion of the assessor included in the list of experts led by the competent authority in view of the place of injury to the agricultural chamber. The funds for reimbursement of the costs of drawing up expert opinions would come from the compensation fund. The decision on compensation issued by the voivode is to be final and the owner or holder of the agricultural land on which the damage was caused by the hunting, tenant or manager of the hunting circuit is not satisfied with that decision may, within one month of its date of service, bring an action before the regional court. The creation of a State Compensation Fund is a second very important change. Firstly, it estimates the losses of the committee appointed by the voivode and the second element in this amendment is the creation of a State Compensation Fund. The manager of this fund will be the voivode responsible for the area of damage and the payment of compensation for hunting damages from that fund, mainly financed by annual contributions from tenants or managers of hunting circuits. Technically, it will look like this, that hunting circles will pay a year's contribution to the fund - I will tell you exactly what contribution we offer in our bill, in our concept of changes, how much - and the rest will be done by the voivode. This voivode will, as I said, estimate the damage and the voivode will pay the funds that we collect from the contributions. The contributions will be the same as at the moment, about the same limits, maybe a little higher, but they will secure the payment of compensation not only at the same amount as before. Right now, ladies and gentlemen, the average... Or maybe otherwise: all compensation according to the CSO paid in 2014 amounted to PLN 70 million. We estimate that the contributions collected will amount to PLN 100 million. There will therefore be 30 million more contributions than at the moment is the amount of compensation paid. So if there's more damage, and we know that they're going to be higher, because so far there's been a lot of charges in their estimation, we still have 30 million at this point, so let's call it yes, a backup so that these compensations can be higher. But if these funds were not enough, the hunting circles would no longer be paying more contributions, the rest of the money, the missing ones, if this were the case, would be paid out of the state budget. It is a security to pay the compensation that will be due to farmers. A year's contribution. The annual contribution paid by hunters by hunting wheels will depend on the size of the circuit. We estimate that the maximum annual contribution per hectare will be equivalent to 10 kg of rye. As I have told you before, our calculations show that this will be within the limit of PLN 100 million per year. In conclusion, I would like to ask you to go to the agricultural committee for this bill. Your Marshal, this is a formal proposal for him to be included in the Committee on Agriculture in addition to the Committee on the Environment, so that we can debate it together. If there are any comments, and we know that some comments are made in the opinions on some provisions - not on the idea, not on the purpose we define, but on some entries - then I hope that together with the environmental committee at the meetings we will regulate these matters so that it is the best law and that it best protects the interests of the victims above all, i.e. farmers, but also the interests of hunters, so that it is, as it is said, well negotiated, jointly negotiated, for both sides. Therefore, I ask you to refer this law to the committee, and after the work of the committee, I ask the High House to vote positively on the bill we propose. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u193	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. I would ask Mrs Anna Paluch to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u194	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Parliamentary draft law amending the Hunting Law is an attempt to objectify the process of estimation and payment of hunting damages. As the applicant said a moment ago, the project changes the art records. The 46th and subsequent Hunting Laws refer in particular to the damage done by wild boars, elks, deer, dwarfs, and deer. It is not known from now on that hunting damage causes conflicts. According to the provisions of the Law on Hunting Law, they are currently estimated by entities operating the hunting economy in circuits. But in this situation, the question arises: which rakes rake from one another? Farmers know the answer to this question because they complain that estimates of hunting damage are usually too low and payments are delayed. On the other hand, hunters do that because the law allows them to. The draft law contained in print No 219 responds to these shortcomings, because between the two parties concerned and the often conflicted parties inserts an arbitrage - the voivode responsible because of the place of occurrence of these damages, which will be responsible for the procedure for estimating and paying hunting damages. In opinions submitted to the Sejm for printing no. 219 local government corporations, in particular the Polish County Union, and some voivodships criticize paragraph. Article 2 46 projects providing that requests for inspection and assessment of damage are addressed to the competent local uncle, mayor or president. In the opinion of these opinion-makers, the municipal government is essentially a supply office and this prolongs and delays the start of the injury estimation process. As you know, the damage should be assessed as soon as possible, immediately before the traces of the game disappear, so that the necessary arrangements can be made faithfully. These opinions also raise the unjustified division of competences between the voivodship, the management board of the voivodship, the State Forest Forests Forests, etc. According to the opinion of the Rural Union of the Republic of Poland, game does not recognise borders of hunting circuits and causes damage beyond their borders. There are also demands to extend the list of animals whose damage is estimated, to muflons, beavers, wild birds migrating, etc. A dozen opinions, a lot of postulates. In the opinion of the Supreme Court, attention shall be paid to the problems arising from the resolution of hunting damage cases by administrative decisions in the context of the provision of the article. 2 § 3 of the Civil Procedure Code, i.e. that civil cases are not dealt with in court proceedings if specific provisions refer them to the jurisdiction of other authorities. It's hard to dig in here because of the very short time I have at my disposal. It is also possible to challenge the amount of compensation in court proceedings in the context of the provisions of Article. In that opinion, 244 § 1 is raised. There is certainly no real date for the proposed entry into force of the provisions in question - 1 June. Ladies and gentlemen! The project involves State participation in a specially created compensation fund. The proposal to create it is an attempt to counter a situation in which tenants and managers of hunting circuits and injured farmers do not agree on the amount of compensation. Here we are dealing with an increasing conflict about the amount of hunting damage, but we must carefully consider all the pros and cons of this solution. Why should the state budget fund be used to fund compensation, since it was the State that entrusted the Polish Hunting Union organized in hunting circles by means of agreements for the lease of hunting circuits with valuable public assets, i.e. the conduct of the hunting economy, which brings income? I'm sure there's some income there. Where did the growing problem of hunting damage and the need for compensation arise? Yeah, well, ladies and gentlemen, from the overgrowth of the population of some animals and from the growing imbalance between species. And here human intervention for the good of the whole natural environment is necessary. It's been a long time since we've lived in an original environment that's regulated itself. Here the need for human intervention, and above all the need for common sense, rational assessment of phenomena occurring in nature, is not subject to ideology and emotions. So-called. environmentalists, who have mouths full of platitudes, supposedly humane slogans, actually harm nature, because they distort the image of the real state of our nature. Since the diagnosis is wrong, the proposed remedies are also inappropriate. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill presented comes out... [[Voice from the courtroom, Marshal.]] Mrs. Marshal! Excuse me. High Izbo! The bill presented responds to many requests addressed to the legislator by Polish farmers. And we must listen carefully to their voices. The Polish village is already tired of suffering. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The farmer is drained by unfair contractors introducing agricultural fetuses to the market, exposed to surprises of a capricious aura, constantly experienced by natural disasters. So, ladies and gentlemen, we need to relieve ourselves. He's being crushed by weights, at least in terms of hunting damage. However, many comments that I have been trying to summarize here...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u195	Member, please proceed to the end.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u196	...submitted to the project should be a signal to carefully and carefully lean on the project and, in the course of the work in the Parliamentary committees, submit it to a thorough analysis and remove the reported deficiencies. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My club, club Law and Justice, will therefore vote in favour of passing this draft law, contained in print No 219, to the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and to the Committee on Agriculture.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u197	On behalf of the club...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u198	Thank you very much, Marshal, for your understanding. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u199	Thank you. I would ask Mr Zbigniew Ajchler to speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u200	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, It is a huge distinction for me personally that I can, on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, present my position on the draft Law and Justice Act amending the Hunting Law Act, print No 219. As many of you know, this is a change expected by almost all farmers. To my surprise, in this change proposed by the Law and Justice, there is no madness, because it concerns only Chapter 9: Hunting Damage. It's not enough not to say very little. Well, let's get to the point. In general, this change is going in the right direction, since according to the wording of the article. Chapter 2 of Chapter 1 of the Law Hunting Animals of the Free State as a National Good are the property of the State Treasury. It is reasonable to increase the involvement of the State Treasury and its representatives in the process of the hunting economy, which does not necessarily mean an increase in its expenditure in this matter. Just because I judge his idea positively doesn't mean it's perfect, that it's perfect. No. She's got a lot of mistakes, lacks a professional look. I will therefore try as a mature opposition to help the applicant. We'll see how much he benefits from this help. Well, the answer is in line with the expectation - we belong to this wise opposition. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Due to a very large, strong seat in the Regional Government Act, its Management Board, as in art. 7 ww. the law almost all the administration of the voivodship government as the task of government administration... The Marshal of voivodship as an executive body is empowered in Chapter 4: Economic activity in the field of hunting, appoints hunting circuits, has the right to change their borders even between voivodships, participates in the construction of their breeding plans, representatives of the local government also form part of the examination committees referred to in Article. Article 42 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 points 3 and other Laws Hunting Law. It shall also pay from the State budget for the damage referred to in Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 16 and others in areas not covered by hunting circuits. To sum up these facts, it must be stated that the local government has a huge experience and official services guaranteeing the professional conduct of these cases. I propose that the applicant make an amendment - in Article. 46 point 1 (1). 2 in place of the voivodship enter the local government of the voivodship. Judging directly by the amendment of the cooperative law... [[Hunting law.]] ...sorry, Hunting Law. ... Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, I declare: In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 46 point 1 (1). 2 - request for inspection, paragraph. 1 as well as establishing the amount of compensation, the landlord or landowner shall submit it to the competent governor, the mayor, the President who shall hand it over to the voivode. I would suggest shortening the record - it should be shortened... passed directly to the voivodeship, which will reduce the time of completion from respect to payout. Art. 46a should say that the examination and assessment of damage should be carried out by the voivodeship, or, if it is the local government of the voivodship... represented by an independent expert expert in the assessment of property damage, with current certificates confirming the qualifications held, with the participation of the parties: injured and responsible - representative of the hunting circle. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 46b (4) - when reservations are raised in the minutes by the owner or holder of the agricultural land - the defendant - the evaluation should be carried out immediately by another independent assessor from the list of voivodeships being the judicial expert. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 50a is created a State Compensation Fund - good. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 50b (3) - The amount of the contribution must, however, be clearly recorded, separating the amount of the contribution for 1 ha, within the field otherwise and within the forest otherwise, because there are completely different damages, not even. The project should provide for a differentiation of contributions linked to the care of the managers and tenants of hunting circuits, with adequate, consistent with density standards of the respective species and types of animals. The lack of this criterion definitely... Crossing the cast e.g. wild boars, deer [[♪ The bell ♪]] causes far greater damage to agricultural crops and thus the amount of compensation. The bill has a lot of errors and inconsistencies with the Hunting Law and the Tax Order itself. The Hunting Law Act in Chapter 9: Hunting damages should also include...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u201	Mr President, please proceed to the end.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u202	...a detailed arrangement in the field of - I'm about to finish - compulsory insurance of all parties. It'll minimize the cost, let's call it compensation. It is equally important to establish landowners and landowners in terms of the establishment of hunting circuits as well as the conduct of the hunting economy on their property. Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I request that the draft amendments to the Hunting Law be adopted and directed to the committee, where I will submit the amendments mentioned in today's position. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u203	Thank you, sir. [[Voice from the room: What committee?]] [[To the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Agriculture.]] I would like to speak on behalf of the Kukiz Poselski Club15, please, Mr Jarosław Sachajko. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u204	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am extremely pleased to present the position of the Kukiz club15 on the law amending the Law on Hunting Law. The agricultural environment has been demanding amendments to the Hunting Law Act for years. There is no doubt that the arrangements so far have not been satisfactory for farmers. I am pleased that the preparation of the draft amendment of the law by the Kukiz club15 has motivated PiS Members to work on their project, which results in this act. This law flew through analyses and the Sejm Bureau, leaving our law far away from the plenary room. In my opinion, such practice should not take place. From this point of view, I call for work to be speeded up on the Food Sales Act by farmers - this is equally needed and expected by farmers and consumers. The project under investigation makes major changes to the entity responsible for the compensation of hunting damages. The project involves the creation of a State Compensation Fund, which will be financed inter alia. from the state budget. The first weakness of the project is the lack of real calculations of the resources available to the State Compensation Fund. There is also no reliable estimate of whether the amounts collected in the Fund will be able to cover the damage reported. According to the CSO, the amount of compensation paid in each year is very different. In addition, these amounts are significantly understated because farmers do not report all the damage they have in their fields. Therefore, it can be assumed that at a time when damage will be estimated by impartial valuers by the voivodships, the value of damage will be several times higher, which requires the provision of adequate means to implement payments. The project has several weaknesses, one I have already mentioned: unrealistic calculations, but the main problem, in my opinion very negative, is the significantly underestimated share of the state budget in the cost of covering hunting damages, which may cause later problems with compensation payments. Surely this money could be used much better - money from the state budget - e.g. to reduce sovereign debt. We should strive to ensure that, as in the world, the hunting economy is profitable - large profits. The target model of compensation payments should at least assume self-financing of this system and therefore legal mechanisms should be created so that the well-run hunting economy is able to generate profits and cover all damages. So far, there has been an unhealthy system in which there was an immanent dispute between a farmer and a circuit tenant. Finally, this problem was recognised and caused that after a long battle, there is a chance that the assessment of the damage will be dealt with by independent teams. By creating a compensation fund, in which the main real payer will be the State Treasury, it should be remembered that this is only the beginning. Legal conditions must be created to force self-financing of the hunting economy. The project also does not address the marginal problem of fraud by pseudo-farmers who, following the introduction of a mechanism to pay for damage by the State on a massive scale, will activate. To sum up, it is necessary to change the way in which hunting damages are paid and estimated. Certain assumptions have been made in the bill, but it is necessary to introduce rules that will lead to a situation in which the hunting economy, in carrying out its natural and environmental role, will also be able to achieve a level of balancing of its costs and ultimately generate revenue. For we must strive to ensure that the budget is consistently relieved and balanced. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u205	Thank you very much, sir. And to speak on behalf of the Modern Club, I would like to ask Mrs Ewa Lieder. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u206	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club on the revision of the Hunting Law Act. According to the Act of 13 October 1995, the Law of Hunting Animals, i.e. wild animals, which are allowed to hunt as a national good, is the property of the State Treasury, so the subject of their protection in the context of the hunting economy should be subject to extensive public consultation, which is not limited only to farmers, hunters and foresters and their interests. The same legal provisions indicate that the hunting animals legally obtained in the hunting area are transferred to the property of the tenant or the manager of the hunting circuit, which are usually hunting wheels and the Polish Hunting Union. It's an express privatisation. In exchange for the ownership of the State, these entities are obliged to pay compensation to farmers for damage caused by wild boars, elks, deer, dandels and deer, as well as damage caused by the hunting itself. Nevertheless, farmers complain that compensation for hunting damages is paid at a low level and too late since the damage occurred. Farmers often also consider that their damage is underestimated. It happens that farmers are bankrupt pending compensation for the destruction of crops. The amendment of the law requires owners or holders of agricultural land to cooperate in securing land against damage. In the event of a dispute over the amount of compensation for damage, the parties may refer to the municipality authority for mediation and amicable settlement of the dispute, which is a big advantage of this amendment. The main objective of the amendment to Hunting Law is, however, to partially transfer the obligation to pay hunting damages to the voivodeship State Treasury acting on behalf of the State Treasury, and consequently to co-finance the activities of hunters by citizens and citizens of the Republic of Poland. It should be noted that hunters represent only 0.3% the population, of which 63% Poles declare their lack of acceptance for hunting. According to the amendment, a compensation fund is to be created, the resources of which will be the sum of annual contributions paid by the tenants or managers of hunting circuits, donations and entries, grants from the State budget and other revenue received for the Fund. The project lacks clear mechanisms to assess the burden on the State Treasury. The projector assumes an annual regulatory cost of 55 million, of which 30 million are funds for the compensation fund, and as much as 25 million are the costs of voivodeships and as many as 380 new jobs. The project presents a lack of safeguards to protect the state budget against these expenditures. Here we see another solution - setting the annual premium for the tenants or managers of hunting circuits at the price of 0.1 q rye for 1 ha of the hunting circuit would cover compensation and the cost of paying them without charging the State Treasury. In 2015, hunting wheels leased hunting circuits with an area of 25 250 thousand. ha, the President of the Central Statistical Office announced that the average buying-in price for rye for the 11 quarters preceding the fiscal year 2016 is PLN 53,75 per quintal, so that the proceeds from the contributions of tenants or managers of hunting circuits may amount to as much as PLN 136 million. The amount of compensation paid in leased and managed circuits by the Polish Łowiecki Union in the years 2014 to 2015 amounted to 62 150 thousand. zł. Hunting circles and the Polish Hunting Union currently derive considerable financial benefits from the sale of ink and the organization of commercial hunting. According to statistics of the Central Statistical Office, the value of buying game in Poland is PLN 81 million. In addition, hunting is an additional form of fundraising for hunters. Two types of hunting are legally carried out in Poland: individual and collective. To more than 118,000. registered in the Polish Hunting Union hunters join tens of thousands of foreigners participating in foreign exchange hunts annually. A relatively liberal hunting law that accepts trophy supporters is decisive in this regard. Supervision of this type of activity is quite illusory, as shown by the audit carried out by the Supreme Audit Chamber. Research also shows that there is a direct correlation between feeding game and hunting damage. Changes in the Hunting Law are needed, the problem of compensation is important, and the harm to farmers - evidently, however, we are in favour of a different approach to this issue. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The fact that farmers' interests are at risk. As a modern club, we are in favour of bringing this bill to committee. Thank you. [[Tell me what committee you're on.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u207	Thank you very much. I would ask Mr Marek Sawicki to speak on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u208	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Speaking on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I would like to express my satisfaction at this parliamentary initiative and at the same time hope that another attempt to regulate matters related to hunting damage has not been slept on the panewka this time. We know how strong and diverse interests are, on the one hand, environmental environments, on the other hand, environments associated with the Polish Hunting Union and hunting circles, including all of which are often helpless and remain the farmer himself. In general, I would like to say that I welcome the establishment of the entire law. I think what needs to be determined is a question of how to estimate the damage. As for the assessment of the damage, so as not to wait for the voivode to respond, to the appointment of a committee by him. On behalf of the voivodeship, such a committee should be set up by the mayor, the president, the lowest level of local government. The committee will include both farmers', agricultural organisations' and local authorities' representatives, with an expert appointed from the list of voivodeships, to ensure that this respect is genuine at the very beginning and that there is no need for appeal. The second very important thing that I also agree with is the creation of a compensation fund, and it's a compensation fund that would be on the voivodeship. I think it is worth considering, during the committee work, whether or not to link this compensation fund to the voivodeship's budget reserve, on the one hand, and on the other hand... Looking at the funds available and at the same time at the loss of wild game in agriculture, I would like to point out that the level of the contributions that the law has laid down will certainly not cover the damage, therefore creating a compensation fund, it is worth considering, in the case of hunting circles, hunting circuits, where there is no implementation of hunting plans, and consequently with high hunting damage and, consequently, in the future, with a high burden on the compensation fund, whether in the work on this project in environmental and agricultural committees, because I believe that both committees should deal with this issue, not tie the system of operation of this fund with regression towards hunting circles, to hunting circuits, especially where hunting plans are not carried out. In order not only to leave it to the budget and to complement it by the budget, but also to make sure that whatever the level of the contribution which is fixed and which really should be differentiated for agricultural circuits and forest circuits, this regression is indeed applied to those who fail to comply with these hunting plans. I also think it would be useful to re-examine whether the list of animals causing the damage is sufficient. Surely the question of extending this list to include damage caused by beavers or, for example, damage caused by cranes... is worth taking into account as well. If we combine all these elements rationally with each other and work well in committee, let us hope that this time farmers will not be left to themselves. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u209	Thank you very much. There are 13 people on the list of people who signed up for the question. Anyone else want to sign up? I can't see. I'm closing the list. I will ask Mr Zbigniew Chmielowiec from the Law and Justice Club for the first question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u210	Dear Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u211	I'm just gonna finish, let me. Question time - 1 minute. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u212	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Free hunting animals are a national good and are the property of the State Treasury. The amendment of this Act aims primarily at rationalising the hunting economy in connection with the agricultural economy. In particular, farmers suffered significant losses in crops from the title of damage to hunting animals and, in particular, wild boars. In order to eliminate the negative occurrence of economic losses by farmers, measures must be taken to involve the State Treasury more in the process of hunting in Poland. The draft provides that a claim for compensation shall be submitted by the owner or holder of the agricultural land to the competent governor, mayor or president, who shall forward it to the competent voivode. Isn't the proposal of an intermediary, the mayor or the president, an unnecessary element, going to prolong the estimation process? Second question: Shouldn't the damage be declared [[♪ The bell ♪]] directly to the voivodship, what would reduce administrative costs? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u213	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u214	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I live in the area of operation of the Łoś Circle of Łowiecki, almost 9 thousand. ha, very high compensation - 120 thousand. zł, 78 protocols per year. It is also a problem, the great problem of hunting circles, hunters who bear very high costs of maintaining the entire system. So it is important, but the solution proposed in the bill is irrational and very expensive. Probably by overlooking both the applicant and the representative of the PiS club, they were not concerned about the need for employment in the voivodships, in the pot of the state of 380 new officials. I suggest you call it. A good change in the Hunting Law did not mean a costly change and the suspicion that it was another project in the series of work for its own. [[No one can beat you in this after eight years.]] [[Easy, Member, easy.]] The question is, ladies and gentlemen of the applicant, are you open to other solutions in the area of compensation, mutual insurance, and not just to those expensive, permanent ones that burden the state budget? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u215	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u216	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Art. 50b of the proposed amendment to the Hunting Law provides that the amount of the contribution to the compensation fund shall be determined by the competent voivode annually. This shall take place no later than 31 January of the year for which the contribution will be paid, depending on the amount of the hunting damage caused in the hunting area concerned. It is easy to note that the deadlines for determining the amount of the contribution do not correspond to the marketing year in hunting. The annual hunting plan shall be submitted for approval no later than 21 March. It shall be drawn up for the period from 1 April to 31 March of the following year. This is the marketing year in hunting. The implementation of the hunting plan lasts until the end of March, i.e. depending on the level of the contribution [[♪ The bell ♪]] implementation of the plan is not possible before that date. That is why I wanted to ask the applicants: Will these comments, in my view, be taken into account at a further stage in the process? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u217	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u218	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! My question is also about contributions, but in a different formula. According to the provisions of this project, the maximum contribution paid to the State Compensation Fund is to depend on the area of the hunting area concerned. Do you not think that the disadvantage of such a planned structure of this contribution is e.g. is it not possible to reduce it by the size of the area of damaged crops in a given hunting area? It seems that the effect of such a constructed record may result in a lack of interest of tenants or managers of hunting circuits in attempts to reduce the extent of hunting damage in subsequent periods of contribution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u219	Thank you very much. And the next question will be asked by Mrs Joann Frydrych, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u220	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Draft Act in Art. 46a (1) shall indicate the voivodeship as the government authority competent for examining and assessing damage to crops and agricultural foetuses by wild boars, elks, deer, dwarfs and deer. It should be noted that the voivodship boards are currently paying compensation for hunting damages in excluded areas. They therefore have competent and trained staff in this field. And my question is: Wouldn't it be advisable to estimate the damage to hunting in crops and agricultural fetuses to be assigned to the marshal's office rather than the voivodeship? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u221	Thank you very much. I would ask you to ask Mr Tomasz Kostusia, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u222	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The Parliamentary bill amending the Law on Hunting, Parliamentary Printing No 219 should be assessed positively, especially as regards the system solutions introduced in the regulation, so important, needed and expected by Polish farmers. However, it is not possible to accept it in the proposed wording due to the large number of modifications to be made to the project submitted. This project requires changes that will improve the damage assessment system and guarantee equal rights for all participants in this process while maintaining impartiality. This project in its current wording does not guarantee e.g. the constitutional principle of equal treatment of the parties. Included in the article. Article 32 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Constitution, a provision ordering equal treatment of everyone expresses the principle which applies, in particular, to the law-making process, i.e. the issuing of laws and other legal standards. The provisions of the law in force must not contain provisions [[♪ The bell ♪]] discriminatory or conferring privileges. Three questions to Members of the applicants: Is unequal treatment of the parties contained in Article. Article 46 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 and private financing of public administration activities, i.e. the tenants or managers of hunting circuits are in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u223	If you'll excuse me, sir, I'm going to have to turn it off.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u224	And second question: Will not taking into account the position of the Supreme Court to change the rules of appeal against the amount of compensation result in a lack of an effective investigation of the actual losses suffered by the land owner or owner? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u225	I apologise, Mr Dorota Niedziela, the Civic Platform Club, to ask you another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u226	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Requestor! I'm glad this project is. Of course, we're both from the environmental committee and the agricultural committee. As a member of the Committee on Agriculture and Vice-President, I am pleased that it is because it is a big problem. We've had this problem for a long time, everyone's trying to deal with it. The only point I'm paying attention to is that there's a problem with funding this. As you know, the 385 jobs and the 25 million we will spend from the State Treasury are one part, while the financing of the damage that will actually be assessed by the experts will be much, much greater. And my question: Since the project, I understand, is written, there is absolutely no position of the Ministry of Finance, what is the position of the Ministry of Finance, which may absolutely refuse to issue, in my opinion, well above 100 million from the State Treasury? If you provide for such additional charges, then my question is, why isn't it here? [[♪ The bell ♪]] any information from the Minister of Finance, whether it is feasible and where this money will come from. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u227	I ask you to ask Mr Piotr Polak, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u228	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am not a hunter, and I probably will never be a hunter, but I am a farmer and I know very well the problem of hunting damage that game does on Polish farmers' plantations. And it is good that there is this bill, Mr applicant, which meets the expectations of Polish farmers and is heading in the right direction. Of course, hunters can't keep it financially, they don't have the means to cover all the losses caused by the game. It is good that the State Treasury takes co-financing on its shoulders. However, I would like to draw attention to one thing, Mr President, which is equally important in addition to funding. I mean whether it is planned in the agreement of agricultural and environmental ministers to carry out an analysis, in view of the increase in population, of the reduction of wild boar and deer stocks, as it seems, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that these two species cause the most losses in Polish crops. Isn't that also the source of the problem, the scale of the loss? Because if you were to apply the scale of the population of these two...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u229	Mr President, please proceed to the end.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u230	...a group of animals, a game of prey, probably a smaller scale of the problem. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u231	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Maliszewski will ask another question, the club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u232	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Mr. Requestor! It is good that this project has appeared, and it would also be good for this project to leave this House in a good shape and become the law in force. In this context, questions are raised, such as: why only five animal species that cause damage to agricultural crops are covered by this project and there is no, for example, species such as beavers and hares or e.g. Cormorants that do enormous damage to fish ponds. So what happens if the damage is serious? Will the farmer have a chance anywhere to get compensation, equivalent or not? Incidentally, it would be worthwhile to differentiate the collection of contributions from hunting wheels to the fund, because it is different with species hunters can hunt, and it is different with species they cannot hunt, and they will participate in damage in the form of paid funds. The second question concerns the deadline. What happened to 14 days? I'm telling you, from the moment of the damage report to the time of the expert's appearance, there's a maximum of 14 days. Why is it so long, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Since we know that decisions must be made quickly in agriculture? For example, if wild boars choose corn, you can't wait 14 days for the committee to come, you just have to sow it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u233	Mr President, please proceed to the end.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u234	Thank you very much. I'm done, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u235	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna Paluch, I would like to ask you another question, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u236	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to address the question to the Minister present. The compensation for damage caused by hunting animals in the following years, according to the data of the CSO, is at such levels: in the hunting year 2010/2011 it was 57 400 thousand, in the following year - 57 million, in the following year - 68 500 thousand, in the next year - 75 300 thousand, and in 2014/2015, the latter, for which we are given, was 67 million. So you can see that the value of these compensations is increasing. So the first question is: Did the government make any estimates of the actual costs on the part of the state budget and would the amount to supplement the compensation fund actually close in PLN 30 million? And then there's the second question. It is estimated that there are 250,000 a year. matters relating to [[♪ The bell ♪]] hunting damage. Is this really going to be enough for the 380 people that the bill is talking about? And by replying to Mr... [[The Vice Marshal shuts down the microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u237	This is no time for answers, Madame.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u238	...achievements in the field of work, let me see... [[Member speaks with the microphone off]] [[You did it in 100 days.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u239	Madame, this is no time for answers. [[She turned off my mic brazenly, and her clubmate didn't.]] I ask Mr Mark Matuszewski from the Law and Justice Club to ask another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u240	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, for the last eight years, farmers have had difficulties in obtaining compensation for the damage caused by wild animals. Yes, this project is therefore presented here, because so far it has been very bad on this subject, many farmers, also to me personally, to the parliamentary office, reported that these damages are particularly underestimated and farmers often waved their hands at it because of this bureaucracy and absolutely did not receive any compensation. So I have this question to your applicant: What about the compensation for what the previous speaker was talking about here for the damage that cormorants cause? In fact, when it comes to fish ponds, the fishermen's union often comes here to us, to the Sejm, every year, and we know perfectly well that these are gigantic problems. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Are we thinking of those who have joints in any way? And will the sums collected in the compensation fund cover the damage to farmers...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u241	Proceed to the end.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u242	...and is that enough? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u243	Thank you very much. Another question - Mr Bartosz Józwiak, Kukiz club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u244	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I speak maybe more of a hunter's side, because I see a little of this kind of judgment being made over them, at a time when they really are the only ones who bear a lot of costs... [[Mr...]] ...for at least something to compensate farmers with money. And they lay out very often, they add out of their own pockets. Therefore, maybe we should complain a little less about these hunters and think about how to plan this plan, so that the State actually participates in what is its property, that is, damage that is caused by game owned by the Treasury. I have two questions. First question. It says in this project that they will be punished with those wheels that do not meet the firing limits. I would just like to point out that there is a certain percentage of the balance - 100% gunshots are sometimes impossible, because this is not an ingrained animal breeding, but this is the management of wild animals, in a single state. And the second thing, the question to law and justice, because before that was the idea of changing the whole law hunting, in my opinion, pretty good. [[♪ The bell ♪]] An idea. Does this amendment rule out that idea, or will you really go back to it? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u245	Thank you very much. The last question will be asked by Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, the Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u246	Mrs. Marshal! Dear ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to stress once again with all my power that no one cares about the size of the population per square kilometer right now. There's no economic advantage. Therefore, this is the reason that these losses are really great. There must be a commitment to the contribution of those who are working on it. If that's not the case, it's still those losses due to 400 percent... Some animal species are more per square kilometer. And two. The only guarantee of a reliable, fair approach to estimation is valuers - in every sense - but professional, professional, certified. This will resolve this matter forever, forever and ever. Amen. One thing I want to say is that I have 35 years of professional experience and there are always problems on this episode - unprofessionally, unrealityally. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And let me ask you this: don't you think it's a big, significant dishonesty that we do hunting on the property, at the expense of the farmer?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u247	Stop asking questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u248	It's unfair because he's putting away a lot of his money, and it's our duty to give it back to him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u249	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please address the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment, Mr Andrzej Nebile. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u250	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to present the position of the Ministry of Environment vis-à-vis the draft law amending the Law on Hunting, print No 219. The Parliamentary bill amending the Law on Hunting Law undoubtedly meets the demands of the agricultural environment related to the growing problem of hunting damages in recent years. Therefore, the solutions proposed to involve more of the State Treasury's contribution to the payment of compensation and the proposals for changes to the entities assessing the damage deserve directional support. However, the proposal requires not only far-reaching legislative and editorial amendments but, above all, rethinking the validity of the concrete solutions proposed. In particular, it should be noted that the proposed amendment does not provide the necessary procedural guarantees. As the first President of the Supreme Court rightly pointed out in his opinion, the draft does not specify whether proceedings to determine the amount of compensation would be carried out under the provisions of the Code of Administrative Procedure. or under some separate procedure. It seems that this was a specific procedure for the Code of Administrative Procedure, and given that the proposed regulations concern the spending of public and private funds, the rules should clearly and transparently define this procedure. Moreover, the project raises doubts as to the extent to which it provides for a single instance of proceedings to determine the amount of compensation, while there are no precise arrangements for the review by the general courts. Following the General Data Protection Officer, it should be pointed out that the proposed regulations need to be clarified in order to ensure compliance with the statutory requirements for the protection of personal data, in particular as regards the protocol on the inspection and assessment of damage and the list of experts. It is necessary to supplement the regulations on the proposed lists of experts, including the tightening of requirements for candidates, which have been raised in their opinions, among others. National Council of Agricultural Chambers and the Union of Rural Communities. The project does not specify the criteria according to which the amount of compensation is to be determined. The project also raises serious concerns as to the rules governing the functioning of a possible compensation fund, including the clarification of the form of operation of the fund - it is not clear whether it is a State special-purpose fund, within the meaning of the Public Finance Act or any other form - to ensure the financial liquidity of the fund and to clearly distinguish the costs financed by that fund and the costs covered by the State budget. What is equally important, despite the projected far-reaching financial implications for the state budget - here they are estimated at about PLN 55 million per year - neither the basis for the estimates made nor the potential sources of funding them. Finally, the project does not contain the necessary transitional provisions. The above reservations, as well as a number of other doubts raised to this project, make the implementation of the proposed solutions in the form of this draft law in practice possible to block the procedures for estimating and paying compensation. As a result, it will be necessary for the legislator to intervene again as a matter of urgency. It is also impossible to predict what kind and to what extent the consequences of such a blockade will have to be borne by the State Treasury. For these reasons, I request that the draft be referred to the committee for consideration. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u251	Thank you very much. I would ask the representative of the applicants of Mr Robert Telus to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u252	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Honourable Members! I would like to thank you for your questions, for your comments on our bill. [[Constructive.]] Most of them are constructive, some are political, but I will try to refer to both. The first speech, on behalf of the Civic Platform, Mr Ajchler: that the act of good, but it is not enough that we should have more, that wise opposition. I have the impression, Mr President, that every project, even one that, as you say, is good, in the right direction, it is best to criticize and make sure that it does not pass... [[But it's positive.]] Maybe that's what these proposals are about, what the Civic Platform is proposing. I don't want to be monotonous about what I'm saying anymore, but the Civic Platform was 8 years old... [[Ha, ha, ha.]] ...for this subject to be dealt with. [[Applause]] There's nothing done about it. [[But the stud stayed.]] And right now, when we're proposing something, and maybe even need to discuss some changes... [[Oh!]] ...it's easiest to criticize and say you don't do enough. [[No.]] But I think that once you - because you are a Member for the first time in the Sejm - will understand and take responsibility also for your colleagues from the Civic Platform, who have done nothing in this regard for eight years, and farmers have asked for it. You also said, "Why not a broader bill?" Mr President, you do not know this, but in that term of office, Law and Justice presented a law and the Civic Platform did not discuss it at all. I'm not talking about PSL, because it was in that coalition too, but here you were attacking this bill, our proposal. And you had to hit your chest, you were 8 years old -- and even our proposal -- and you didn't want to talk about it. Then you didn't pity the farmers, and now all of a sudden you're pitying them. We also need to look a little wider at this bill and what you said here. There has been a trend in Poland for some time, and for the last 8 years it has grown very much. This is the trend of privatizing circuits and creating private circuits. We as the Law and Justice are against it and we will do nothing to make this trend of yours... [[No, we don't have that trend. That's not the trend.]] ...pull him or praise him or introduce him. [[Applause]] Hunting Circuits will be statewide. It's gonna be one relationship or another or changed, but it's got to be under state control, not private control, to have someone do business on it, because it's not business. [[We agree.]] Let us take, in general, a certain part of the speech, among others. Mrs Lieder, criticising hunters: 0,3% - so few of them are here in Poland, why are we doing this? You can see the unfamiliarity of the subject, because if anyone knows about wild game, animals at all, biodiversity, environmental protection... Even the Member does not realise - and, ladies and gentlemen, you do not realise - how important the role of hunters in this whole structure is to ensure that the condition of our game is adequate and, consequently, safety, also agricultural, as you have also said. You said you had to reduce the population, but if we did this: let's not deal with hunters, because this is such a small population - I'm sorry for the word "population," but that's what it looked like in your speech - then who would do this shot? Who would cause that gunshot? [[Dwarfs.]] That's why, even though I'm a farmer, even though I'm not a hunter, I know how much hunters are needed, and I know that you also have to take care of the common interest, not just the interests of one group, and the other group doesn't matter, because it's only 0.3%. This is wrong thinking, and I think we need to change that thinking. Besides, as I said, Law and Justice have a strong opinion on this subject and we know what we want to do about it. Mr Sawicki. Thank you very much for your support. You also said that since the hunting plan... That's right, it also depends on the execution of the hunting plan in the bill. So much for these general statements by Members on behalf of the clubs. Now I'd like to try to answer the questions that came from the platform. Mr Chmielowiec asked why the mayor, the mayor, was asking why the motion did not go straight to the voivodeship. The argument is clear. We want the farmer who makes this application to be as close as possible. And the closest to every farmer is the mayor. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not what you think: that Poland is so rich that the farmer sits on a computer and immediately lets the voivodeship know that the animals destroyed its crops. It can be very often still... You run other agriculture, you run another farm that you always pride yourself on, and that's good, but there are still farmers in Poland who will come to the mayor's office on a bike to report it because they can't afford to drive because they don't have this car, and they can't afford to do it on the Internet because they can't. And in this record, which is here to make it an application to the mayor's uncle, we were going to make sure it was as close as possible to the farmer. Mr Wilczyński - employment of people. It's normal that if you want to do something, you have to hire people. Whether it's a contract, whether it's a contract or a contract, or it's supposed to be another way, because if it's supposed to be an assessor, it's a contract, ladies and gentlemen, we're not gonna hire valuers, but somebody's gotta do it. It's not what you think - because you think with your categories, the Platform used to think with yours to make yours to yours. We don't think so. We think it's right to make changes so that it's a good change, a change for the farmer, and, as I said, in the common interest, in the interests of all of us, and hunters, and farmers. And it's not a job for employment, as you think, but like I said, it's your thinking, because everyone thinks their own way. Mrs. Margaret Navel, deadlines, deadlines. Of course, we will lean on this proposal in the committees, we will debate it. If these are matters to change, of course we are inclined to do so, because, as I said, we want it to be a good law and to serve farmers and hunters. Mrs Kołacz-Leszczyńska - reduction of areas destroyed by animals in order to reduce what was destroyed every year. There's also an unfamiliarity of the subject. It is not that these areas which are already destroyed are to be thrown out, because next year they will be sown again and this land is still used. These areas are used. It is not what you think, but I understand that not everyone knows the countryside, not everyone knows these matters and it is understandable. Mrs Niedziela - extra money. I've already explained the money, but I'll try again to make it perfectly clear. If all hunters pay this maximum rate - because there is up to 10 kg - then as you have calculated correctly, it may even be 130 million PLN. Let's take 100 million zlotys. At the moment, in 2014 the damage was at PLN 70 million. We've got 30 million extras. Most likely - I do not want to judge here - this payment from the state budget will either not be at all, or it will be small, it will only be done with hunters' contributions, and I think it will be enough calmly. Mr Polek - reduction of wild boar. Mr President, the Minister's regulation on the reduction of wild boar on the eastern side will most likely be signed tomorrow. The government of Law and Justice also thinks about this, because it is also a problem with which the coalition of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party could not cope, had no money for it, pretended that there was no money, and this case was not settled until today. We're handling this. We propose, as I said, good changes. Mr Maliszewski - 5 species, why not beavers. Mr, of course, cormorants and beavers are included in another law, because they are protected animals. This cannot be settled in this law, and I am surprised that a Member who has been on the Agriculture Committee for so many years and the Vice-President of the Agriculture Committee does not know that. Is 14 days too many - this is also a question of Mr Maliszewski. This is a realistic term. It's not like this committee's gonna be waiting out there somewhere in the commune for somebody in the community or somebody in the country, and she's just gonna be waiting for a call to go. We don't want to create a law for the law, we just want to create a realistic law, and these 14 days are a realistic deadline to deal with it. And a hunting plan - Mr Józwiak - to also apply the implementation of the hunting plan. As I have already said, this law also speaks of the hunting plan, that if it is not implemented, the contribution will be greater. Mr Aichler, last question. I've already answered that, it's a cost thing. And then there's the question of whether to move it to the regional seymics, to the marshal. Of course it's an idea, we're not saying it's not. But if we were to propose a marshal, perhaps it would be a question of why not a voivode, since money comes from the state budget, and the shortest way in the case of a fund from the state budget is the governor - the voivode. You can always ask these kinds of questions and make these kinds of accusations, but I think, as I said, this is not the way. Let's sit together, make a bill that will be good for farmers, good for hunters, but above all good for us Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u253	Thank you very much. [[In corrigendum mode. We signed up.]] [[In corrigendum mode, I wanted to. I signed up in corrigendum mode.]] [[Me too.]] Yes? You're welcome. One minute, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u254	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, Dear High Izbo! Mr applicant, you have clearly misunderstood me. I didn't say we shouldn't be dealing with this case. I said that this matter is important enough that it should go into broad consultations, and that you should not only focus on the good of hunters, which is also important, but not the most important. A new hunting law is needed to take account of current relations on the hunter line - the state - property owners, which is very important and has not been raised, and contemporary natural and environmental awareness. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u255	Thank you very much. It was Mrs Ewa Lieder from the Modern Club. Now, Mr Ryszard, I am sorry, Zbigniew Ajchler from the Civic Platform. You're welcome, sir. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u256	Mr. Marshal! Dear Members, Mr President, you have completely misunderstood me, you have misunderstood me. I do not know how, sir, you are so perverse. I want to say it again. By representing the Civic Platform, I would like to say with all my power that it is in the interests of the Civic Platform and the farmers that I represent to resolve this problem as soon as possible, but not the multitude of proposed changes. The point is to solve this problem as soon as possible and to adopt this bill. [[Eight years.]] It's in our best interest, we have no other purpose. On the other hand, as we propose some solutions, we propose in a professional, professional way. As a farmer, as an agricultural entrepreneur for 35 years experiencing this issue live, on the skin, I repeat once again, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that the Platform has no other interest in this topic than a professional, fast solution. I think we're gonna do this on the committee...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u257	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u258	...together, together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u259	Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u260	Mr Reporter, I had the impression that you would notice that I have addressed you very warmly and warmly, colleagues, knowing that we will meet in a moment on the Parliamentary Committee. I said, let's make this show look like work for our own. That's what I said. So please don't impert the wrong intentions, because I know what I'm saying, too. I was a voivode, I know what it means to hire a dozen people suddenly, and I know how they're going to be hired because you changed the civil service law. I would be happy if you would answer my question directly, if you were open to other solutions, which is non-ethatistic, Mr. Reporting Officer. Perhaps you would have been more gracious to us if you had listened to the Minister, because it has been a long time since the submission of the PiS Members had met with such a critical assessment of your minister and with such restraint on the part of the club representative. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[You're already going beyond the correction formula. Don't give me the impression of anything, sir, because I will have to go out and correct it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u261	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed... [[Mr. Marshal...]] An answer to the corrigendum? We'll call another corrigendum...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u262	I mean, not another correction, Mr. Marshal, but I just want to say that of course we're open to suggestions. [[Thank you.]] Of course, we're open to making this a good change. Like I said, it would be a good change for farmers, for hunters, to find a common measure. And that's all I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u263	Sure.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u264	And what has been said so far, just as the Civic Platform wants it to be done quickly, I stress again: you were 8 years old, there was nothing done about it. Thank you very much. [[Let's leave the eight years.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u265	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the draft law amending the Law on Hunting Law, contained in print No 219, to the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry for consideration. [[Mr. Marshal, there was a motion...]] The discussion also requested that this draft law be submitted to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that both proposals have been accepted by the Sejm. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Public Finance on the adoption of the Senate on the 2016 Budget Act (Prints 251 and 257). I ask Mr Andrzej Jaworski to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u266	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! At its meeting, the Committee on Public Finance gave a positive opinion on all the Senate amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u267	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Wiesław Janczyk, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u268	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Work on the 2016 budget is coming to an end. I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the position of the club with regard to the Senate resolution on the budget law, Seym printing Nos 251 and 257. Law and Justice supports all amendments tabled by the Senate when taking into account the position of the Committee on Public Finance. Finally, we will vote on these amendments in the plenary room. Work on the bill went smoothly from the very beginning. Despite numerous comments, the divergences of both substantive committees and the Committee on Public Finances had sufficient time to follow closely the detailed provisions of the draft law. Despite the change of power, there is a full chance that the managers of individual budget parts will receive a ready document signed by President Andrzej Duda in a few days' time and proceed to the implementation of the expenditure by issuing invitations to tender, seizing public money to work as soon as possible, so that, for example, it is not necessary to invest on roads, bridge investments in late autumn under snow. The amendments tabled in the Senate can solve the problems of certain institutions in order to enable them to implement the projects they raise. More than 100 amendments were tabled in the Senate, with a majority of only 20 of them. Similarly, the same number received a positive opinion from the Parliamentary Committee on Public Finance. Increased among others. an amount of 8 million for the Church Fund, for the renovation of religious monuments, was limited to the National Election Office. As you know, there are no elections this year. The funds for IPN increased by 5.4 million, increased by PLN 5.4 million to the State Labour Inspection in connection with the additional powers that the institution received. It's summary time. In two medium-term debates, a multi-hour debate on the budget said almost everything. The 2016 budget remains based on preliminary macroeconomic assumptions, which include 3.8 percent GDP growth, projected inflation of 1.7% , deficit of the public finance sector 2.8% - less than 3% than so-called. the fiscal criterion of the Maastricht Treaty. At the same time, a very populist festival of various ad hoc promises made during the process of proceding this document, mainly by the opposition Members, is ending, which is difficult to have any pretensions and no such pretensions, but it is astonishing to me that these were proposals for increasing expenditure, most often by receiving quotas from other budget managers, i.e. with stubbornness of a better case, attempts were made to take back one and to give to the other. It is interesting that nobody thought of it - here I am talking about the heads of opposition leaders, Mr Schetin's head, Mr Petru's head, Mr Kukiz's head, Mr Kosiniak's head - to present in parallel an idea to increase the revenue of the state so that ultimately the expenditure could amount to a higher amount than the planned PLN 368 billion. It has often been said that a deficit of 54,7 billion is large, but no significant proposals have been made to reduce it. All specific aspects of the budget have been discussed several times. The Sejm has not been visited in the meantime, and we have examined the budget document for almost three months, no law proposed by the opposition, which would increase revenue by a significant amount. For example, Mr Petru's party submitted its first three legislative proposals by 13 January. And what were they about? Abolishing the electoral silence, restricting trade union rights. There are so many places where you can find money for the state budget, but no one can see them. That's interesting. I observe this process with reflection and praise this budget, because Law and Justice have demonstrated for the first time in years the courage to create new revenue for the budget, in parallel with the introduction of a tax law on certain financial institutions, and in the study there is a tax on hypermarkets. But it's also about other activities. Indeed, tax corrective measures that do not increase the basic rates of CIT, PIT, VAT, excise duty, lead to a certain level playing field between taxpayers and convince them of the inevitability to pay taxes and, in particular, to the elimination of tax fraud and fraud. Or even an idea of how to stimulate the development of some industry, stimulate demand, generate a larger volume of export turnover in order to gain more revenue to the state budget. No legislative positive initiative has been proposed, proposed or discussed in this regard, but with manic stubbornness it has been run on television and it has been said that this will not work and that nothing will succeed and nothing can be done. The only group that hasn't wasted the last few months in this regard is Law and Justice, and the example is the 500+ programme, which has been secured and which is already moving and generating consumer demand and driving growth in the implementation of this investment in the Polish family, [[Applause]] who will finally get better conditions to raise children and, let's not be afraid to say it, will also stop immigration to a large extent. And today also the new programme, the Morawiecki Plan, which defines opportunities for development, shows ways of financing this development, describes the strengths of the Polish economy, diagnoses the chances of accelerating growth, finally encourages investment and gives a clear signal to entrepreneurs that the state needs their activity and will respond favorably to their projects. The state will support the development of companies, their innovation and productivity, support their foreign expansion, ensure even development of the country, focus on investments, coordinated and even development of the regions of Poland. The State will help to search for competitive advantages of the Polish economy, support innovation, export, help promote Polish brands, implement economic diplomacy reform, reform vocational education, integrate rural areas and small cities into development processes. There is one more thing that we want to focus on and which we are about to present. This is a review of tax law, the creation of rules and the sealing of the tax system that is currently functioning, without raising taxes, while maintaining current tax rates to achieve better revenue results by reducing fraud and tax fraud, VAT fraud, CIT on a large scale by dishonest economic operators who, by the way, drag our entrepreneurs into financial difficulties. President Andrzej Duda will now have seven days in accordance with the Constitution to sign the budget. In this way, the government of Prime Minister Beata Szydło will comply with the commitment to adopt the budget within three months. The Law and Justice Club will ultimately vote on the Senate's proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u269	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Silchoń, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u270	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! As regards the government's budgetary achievements in the area of public finances, first of all, let us remind you of the revision of the budget law for 2015 and the amendment of the budget, which in fact consisted in increasing the deficit and increasing the government's debt, a change which did not have any economic justification. Even if this shift of income were to be accepted, it was not really necessary to do so either. I'm talking about moving the income from the LTE auction. In the context of today's knowledge about the implementation of the 2015 budget, you have actually embarrassed yourselves, but it's pal six. You are ruining the image of Poland and this is one example. The second is the Public Finance Act, which you changed in a hurry in one day to increase the expenditure limit, but in this way you dismantled the mechanism that protected Poland from overindebtedness and stabilized Polish public finances. This record was also a guarantee of the predictability of the government, the predictability of our country, Poland. And that's an example too. spoiling the image of Poland, because he certainly suffered from it. As regards the 2016 budget, first of all, it is a budget of a larger deficit, blown-up expenditure and overestimated revenue. At the same time in this budget, and that must also be said out loud, you are assuming an increase in taxes. You are introducing two new taxes and, contrary to what you are telling us, these taxes will be charged to all Polish families. This has already happened when it comes to tax on financial institutions, because commissions, fees and interest have already increased, and you will not undo it. [[But not all of them...]] Even more devastation in the pockets of Polish families will be taxed on really retail trade, on retail sales, which in fact is not yet available today, but we all know that this is a textbook example of the tax being passed and in front, and back and they will lose the tax on this supplier, but in the longer term they will pay Polish families for it - they will simply pay more in Polish shops. It is worth noting, however, that despite these irresponsible actions, there is no full coverage in the budget for the fulfilment of electoral promises. In fact, there are no electoral promises, because 500+ is for a good cause only a substitute in the final form of what you promised. You promised 500 PLN for every child. There is no means to increase the amount of free money, even though the President's bill is in the Sejm. There is also no money to reduce the retirement age. There isn't, and you know it won't. As far as the free medicines you promised were concerned, 125 million zlotys were booked in the budget. It is true that you are assuming with slippage that the entry into force - this will generate more expenditure certainly in the coming years - but in any case, the fulfilment of this promise is 3 and 4 billion, and without skillful safeguards, in fact, the cost of budget interests can be many times higher. The 2016 budget is essentially the budget of political corruption, the budget of major taxes, the money for every other child, with a larger deficit and more debt. What also hurts us is that this is a budget that paralyzes and limits the ability of the institutions of the state of law, such as the Constitutional Tribunal, because another entity or another institution on the list of enemies of the PiS is an ombudsman. In the course of work in the Sejm, amendments limit the Ombudsman's budget by 1/4. Our amendments were not accepted. Mr Janczyk is no longer here. Our amendments aimed at reducing the deficit by PLN 5 billion were not accepted. I'm talking about an amendment that would make a bigger profit, a profit from the NBP profit. There are also no in vitro amendments, and there is no money to buy apartments for young people. We were counting, I can tell you, quietly, that the Senate will fix something. But what did he do dominated by the PiS Senate? He was in favour of raising the Church Fund by 8 million, while the opposition's amendments, the amendments of parliamentarians, the Senators of the Platform to increase the budgets of the Constitutional Tribunal and the Ombudsman, of course, did not pass. The penalty imposed on these institutions by the President has been maintained. It is worth noting that five amendments, including those concerning the Church Fund, have not received a positive opinion from the government. A unanimous vote by the Senators and PiS Members against their own government is hardly a mistake. But that means you put the government against the wall, and that raises the question of who in this situation is responsible for public finances, who is responsible for the state budget. I don't know how the Minister of Finance might feel in this situation. He's not here, so I can't ask him. It is worth noting that these Senate amendments are the opening of successive PiS wars with subsequent institutions of the democratic rule of law. Because the senators decided to allocate these amendments, and the Members of the PIS supported them, for example, more resources. to the Senate Registry at the expense of spending on the new seat of the National Judicial Council. In fact, this is an example of the arrogance of the PiS and at the same time a snap in the nose for another important institution. But this is not the end of interference with the functioning of the National Judicial Council, because another amendment assumes an increase in the expenditure of the Archaeological Department of the Institute of National Remembrance at the expense of the National Judicial Council. Another marginalized institution, which is important for the functioning of a democratic state of law, is the National Radio and Television Council. Here, amendments to the National Council's spending by more than 1800 000 were supported. zł. Incidentally, the Minister of Finance also opposed this amendment. The funds would increase the expenditure on physical culture and tourism. This is about the participation of our Olympics in the Olympic Games, as well as an important project from our point of view, which is the construction of the monument to Stanisław Pyjas in Krakow. We are not against increased funding for the Olympics, nor are we against the construction of the statue of Stanisław Pyjas, but not at the expense of important institutions of the state. It is also worth noting that the Senate proposed a transfer in respect of the budget of the National Election Office of PLN 3700 million, [[♪ The bell ♪]] by cutting the grant to municipalities, which is intended to keep the electoral registers, and at the same time the amendments tabled by the Senators of the Civic Platform, also one which, for example, would allow for the invitation of young people from Eastern Europe, from Ukraine to the Papal World Youth Days. We don't understand your resistance to this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u271	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, Kukiz Poselski Club15, will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u272	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, the position of the Kukiza movement again on the budget, on the issue also related to the amendments that have come from the Senate. These amendments are, in fact, largely insignificant and cosmetic in nature, because they are promile, even if not smaller parts in terms of budget. No significant changes in the budget have been made and these amendments have not changed the nature of this budget, and since they have not changed the nature of this budget, they cannot change our position towards this budget. Again, I would like to point out that this is a budget in which expenditure is growing at a rate of 3 times the GDP, i.e. scissors between expenditure and GDP are increasing, which is negative over the long term and predicts the possible problems with the operation of public debt, with an increasing deficit. If spending is to be increased in specific areas, such as family policies, it is important to look for restrictions on spending in other areas rather than to raise taxes and revenues at a rate of three times as fast as GDP growth. This, in our opinion, is unacceptable. We understand that this is part of the legacy of the previous government, but nevertheless we need to know the proportions, ladies' mosquitoes. This rate of expenditure growth, however, should not be as much as three times the GDP growth rate assumed by the projector. What else did I want to point out in the second place? Namely, yesterday in the press we were able to read reports about the updated forecast of the Social Insurance Institution related to the Social Insurance Fund and its financial forecast for the next 5 years. The U.S.S., if you believe these press reports of course, presented very disturbing forecasts. According to these press reports, it turns out that all previous ZUS forecasts work as black scenarios, i.e. the collapse and crisis of the Social Insurance Fund is getting worse. The latest forecast shows that in the optimistic version we will add 50 billion to this fund, but in the pessimistic version, which is, unfortunately, the most likely one, it can end so that in 5 years this grant can reach up to 80.90 billion. There's no budget that can hold it in the future. And that, in our opinion, is the most serious problem that the High House should be dealing with in the near future. I ask you, gentlemen, to look at this forecast of the Social Insurance Institution and to point out that if these trends are as described there, we will have a very serious problem with maintaining the liquidity of the state and that the state simply does not go bankrupt. I don't want it to be like that in five years' time, most of the revenue that's gonna show up is gonna be loaded into this sack with no bottoms called the Social Insurance Fund, and that's what's threatening us. As for this year's budget, there are no cuts in the administration. The bureaucracy is fine, VAT and the carousels associated with it are fine. We are waiting for this central register of taxpayers to fight the pathology in VAT, but it is not there. But there is a 500+ program, which is noisyly called a pro-natalist project, a prodemographic project, and it is really a partly pro-family project and definitely a pro-social project, which I don't think we can afford in this form. There is talk of 1 trillion PLN in relation to the national development program, but there is no telling where to get this 1 trillion. In general, from the pockets of citizens, entrepreneurs and citizens' savings. But how? Because citizens don't want to invest, even though they have resources. Why? Because the risk of failure of these investments is high, and it is clearly assessed by them as so high that they do not want to take it. Does the rate of expenditure growth three times the rate of GDP growth reduce or increase the risk of investment in such an economy? Answer that question, the answer is rhetorical. He's obviously picking it up. Then how will Prime Minister Morawiecki convince him to invest money in the economy at such an increasing risk? That's the question the government should ask themselves. There is no stimulation for austerity. Without long-term savings growth there will be no economic growth, because there will be no funding for programmes, but there is no programme to stimulate savings, on the contrary - Belka's tax is maintained, savings are taxed with a 19 percent profit tax, so with the low interest rates they are now, no one is worth saving. So what are we going to finance these big investment projects? With EU funds and loans alone? The risk will rise again. Well, well. Tax-free amount, flagship project - in the woods. Turns out there's no money for that and there won't be any time soon. They're already saying that it's not 8,000, it's 5,000. What this Constitutional Court is, it is, but it has ruled that this is extremely unfair. And since this is extremely unfair, we should first take care of this in order to eliminate this outstanding injustice, especially as regards the payment of taxes by citizens. Citizens pay extremely unfair personal income tax. We should fix this. We didn't do anything about it. It is still extremely unfair, not in accordance with the constitution, but we will not discuss it. We're not doing anything about changing the building law. Many companies went bankrupt because of the failed Construction Law. The second Union period comes with regard to the use of funds. True, we have improved the law on subcontractors, but the building code is in the woods, it's not there. And that's the basis. According to us. And the last element that bothers us, with government announcements, is the audiovisual fee transferred to the electricity bill, added to the electricity price. We would like you not to hide again any more pseudo-taxes imposed on citizens who are already fed up with all these taxes. Not to mention the commercial tax, not to mention the inadequacies. The issue of trade tax is not resolved, there is no government concept here. The government concept is actually unquoted clearly, constantly changing. And we have the proceeds of this tax in the budget. I wonder how we're gonna get it. I understand the NBP will cover possible shortages. It's about the higher NBP profit. What about the audiovisual fee? We have proposed to introduce a tax on radio and television advertising - it will also be a tax based on excise duty or fuel levy - and thanks to this tax it will finance, and not constantly draw more money out of citizens' pockets. Especially since citizens, if we asked them about it, they would say that they absolutely do not want to pay the audiovisual fee or, as it will be called, the radio-television subscription, whatever. Prime Minister Szydło, when we accepted banking tax in this House, appealed in the media and said: We are checking the credibility of the opposition. If the opposition is in favour of citizens, if the opposition is white-red, it should support the bank tax and show that it is responsible. And part of the opposition, we, in our understanding, supported the bank tax. We showed the Prime Minister that she was responsible. But when we said, "I am checking, and they added: Prime Minister, we must not only care about the citizens present, but about those who are not born, and about those who are small, we must also care and we must not have such a policy that they will have to pay back such astronomical sums as they will become adults citizens of the Republic of Poland, that they will pack up and leave and will not even try to pay for it." We ask for at least a substitute for responsibility for future citizens. So we proposed: Let's write down in the Public Finance Act a rule on decreasing deficits, write down, like Germany or the United Kingdom, the possibility of creating a sustainable budget in the future, and there is no response. That means we passed the responsibilities test. And did the PiS pass it? I don't know. Then let the P.I. answer himself if he passed the responsibilities test. And I'm sure the future citizens will ask that. In our view, the concept of negative income tax would be more appropriate than the concepts proposed by the PiS, but unfortunately it was not accepted. With regard to the budget in this form, the Kukiz Club15 will not be able to vote in favour of it, although there will be no party discipline on this matter, because we value freedom of opinion more than imposing such a one. [[♪ The bell ♪]] discipline. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u273	Thank you. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska from the Modern Club will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u274	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It so happens that the end of the work on the first budget bill in this parliamentary term for the current year coincided with the assessment of the first 100 days of the government, and it is impossible to really look at the budget from this perspective on this occasion. Mr Wiesław Janczyk spoke here about the festival of populist promises from the opposition. Well, sir, however we try, we have not been able to match the ruling party. The list of promises made even to these first 100 governments was very long, very ambitious. We assumed in advance that you were unable to implement them. But on this occasion, let's focus on the details. The first promise is to reduce the retirement age. In the budget for the current year there are no appropriations reserved for this purpose. Moreover, Deputy Prime Minister Morawiecki recently stated that there was no firm promise in this regard. The second of the populist promises of Law and Justice for the first 100 days, which we knew could not be included in the budget, is a very important issue for Poles, especially the lower ones, i.e. the higher tax-free amount. The budget also does not secure the means for fulfilling this promise. In return, the government is doing its best to delay the entry into force of the Constitutional Tribunal's ruling, which awaits its execution. The presidential project, which was first read a long time ago, did not really get a hearing in the Committee on Public Finance. We have decided to help the ruling party and have also submitted our own project in this area. [[Voice from the hall: Plagiarism.]] The Poles are waiting, ladies and gentlemen, waiting. Point 3 - lower CIT for smaller companies. Today we know that the fulfillment of this promise has been postponed for the next year. Even in the current budget, despite previous announcements, no money has been secured for this purpose. Point 4 - free medicines for seniors. The first of the promises for which this year's budget actually reserved funds, but in fact in the amount of monthly value at the price level of half of vitamin C packaging. I think, unfortunately, the seniors will find that this position will not help much in their budget. I point 5 - the flagship project 500 PLN per child. It came out, it came out, as you can see, on the second, third and each... And it's really a promise made with thin threads, because if it goes on, we'll see, we'll settle it in a couple of years. Every step of the way, I will stress that this promise is a ticking budget bomb. Firstly, it was met at the expense of an increase in the deficit last year, as has already been mentioned here. Secondly, there's no money for it in the years to come. Although the Public Finance Act provides that such projects should have an appropriate source of funding for years, the Law and Justice have actually presented a time horizon of only 8 months. As far as the next year is concerned, all we know is that we have expenditure of 23 billion and funding sources of 5 billion. Any other activities to serve Polish families will have to be stopped, to serve Poland, to stop the reforms needed only because you will have to raise money to one bank under the title 500+. What's in return? In addition to all laws that harm Polish democracy and quickly take over power, we have a noisy penalty tax for bad foreign banks, for which, of course, according to what we said, Poles paid. The data is devastating. According to the Financial Supervision Commission, at the turn of the year, for the 20 largest banks in Poland 15 the prices of housing loans increased, and 12 consumer loans increased in 14 cases the financing prices for small and medium-sized enterprises - i.e. the increase in loan prices that we talked about - in 9 cases individual account prices were raised and in 11 cases banks lowered the valuation of deposits of Polish families. And, of course, banks are announcing the closure of branches and redundancies, in some cases quite mass, because the various problems they face force them to restructure their costs to the extent possible. This will touch the Poles. So who paid this tax price? No, as you expected, these bad foreign banks present in Poland, but just Polish families. The second penalty tax, for bad foreign trading corporations, still hasn't seen the light of day. It's supposed to be beautiful. It's as good as ever. Mutual criticism within the government, as well as within the Law and Justice, has, fortunately, led to some reflection in this case. It seems that the bill, which was prepared and thought out during the election campaign, is still not in session. You have a huge problem, ladies and gentlemen. You don't have an idea, and you can see how this tax is constructed to realize the budget revenues and so that the crowds of Polish traders, Polish families who live from the trade, do not go out on the streets. That's what happens when you first calculate your influence and spend money, and then you think about how to get it. We warned you that this was the worst road and the most dangerous game you could start. There's no money for election promises, but there's money for Rydzyk's father. Lux Veritatis will receive more than PLN 26 million from the State Treasury. This is the result of the settlement, which was concluded before the judgment of the court, between the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management and the foundation of father Tadeusz Rydzyk. This is compensation for early withdrawal of funding for the Toruń geothermal project. Do you know how many municipalities in Poland have to deal with such problems on their own? Do you realize that there are a lot of municipalities that have taken out powerful loans so that Poles can use aquaparks, and today they are struggling with problems with handling these loans? I hope that we will go further this way and that these municipalities will also receive support in order to be able to carry out other investments in their territory, not just this one foundation. However, the most shocking thing is the fact that money was given to Father Rydzyk to help Małopolska fight smog. Taking money from the budget of Małopolska to support the EU's Life project is really putting the interests of Father Rydzyk above the interests of the inhabitants of the region. I therefore ask what the Members of this area have to say, because I do not think that the people of this region have such expectations for them before the last parliamentary elections before they vote for them. It's true that we have new drastic announcements from the ZUS. In pursuing such a policy, you will not prepare Poland at all to face the growing demographic problems of our country. 500+ of these problems, ladies and gentlemen, also in no way will solve the problems, and the worse the budget of our country will be prepared for them. In this connection, we have, in fact, a question for the Prime Minister and for the ruling party: Did you finally understand that you could not do it? Did you understand that you don't have any money because the budget isn't a rubber or a hat that white rabbits pop out of? Did you finally understand that you promised too much to the Poles? Did you understand that you just lied to your constituents? It's time to say I'm sorry. It is time to say I am sorry and to invoke common sense, reliable calculations and good principles of financial game, thinking about the interests of Poland. Stop wasting the Poles' money. Stop poking around with money you don't have. Stop pretending like nothing's going on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u275	Thank you very much. Ms Genowef Tokarska, the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u276	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I will present my position on the report of the Senate Senate on the 2016 Budget Act. The Senate of the Republic of Poland introduced 20 amendments to the Finance Act for 2016. Committee on Public Finance on 23 February this year. adopted a positive opinion on all the amendments tabled by the Senate, even in cases where there is a negative position on the part of the government. This negative recommendation from the government has as many as five amendments: 1, 2, 3, 14 and 15. It should also be noted that the amendments made by the Senate are not rational and even laconic. I state this fact on the basis of the written justification attached to the Senate resolution, as well as information submitted by the Senate representative during the proceedings of the Public Finance Commission. Therefore, the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party cannot share the position of the Committee on Public Finance and can give a positive opinion on all the amendments of the Senate. We support these amendments of the Senate, which are general in nature, clarify the provisions of the Budget Act, and so-called. supplementing amendments which meet the obvious, necessary objectives, not noticed during the work on the Law in the Sejm. The increase in funding by 1252 000 deserves attention. zł for current expenditure in part: Physical culture according to amendment 2. This amendment reduces the budget of the National Radio and Television Council and is intended to complement the expenditure related to the implementation of national staff take-off at the Rio de Janeiro Olympic Games . Amendments 5 and 8 will increase salaries in the State Labour Inspection and the Supreme Audit Chamber respectively: 5395 thousand. PLN and 3419 thousand zł. The officials of the two control bodies shall have no possibility of additional remuneration and the remuneration shall increase by no more than 5%. We also accept transfers of funds from Part 20: Economy to Part 21: Maritime economy in the amount of 120 thousand. PLN and up to Part 48: Economics with fossil deposits in the amount of 22 thousand. PLN, similarly from Part 36: Treasury to Part 74: Public Prosecutor's Office in the amount of 500 thousand. zł. We consider amendment 12 that transfers the amount of PLN 2 million to carry out the task of improving the methodology of teachers working in Poland and Poles abroad, although in general we evaluate this issue, noting the irregularity. The irregularity itself is the redirection of funds for cooperation with Polonia and Poles abroad from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs again to the Senate. We are also in favour of renovation and modernization of the historic buildings of the State Higher Vocational School in Gniezno. We do not agree, we will vote against the amendments: 1, 3, 6, 9, 13 and 18. The amendments reducing measures in Part 09: The National Radio and Television Council by more than 1800 000 deserve attention. zł. The reduction of resources in this amount will paralyze the functioning of the institution, which, due to the importance of free public media, is even in the basic law, i.e. in the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. We will vote against Amendment 9, which the Senate proposes to reduce subsidies and subsidies by more than 3700 000. PLN for local governments for keeping and updating electoral records. Amendment 18 is highly controversial for a large amount, because 35 300 thousand. zł, reducing investment funds for the new seat of the National Judicial Council. In examining the amendments tabled by the representatives of the governing party during the parliamentary debate on the budget, institutions such as the Constitutional Tribunal, the Ombudsman, were paralyzed by withdrawing significant financial resources from the budgets of those institutions. In today's examination of the Senate's amendments, the aim is similar to that of the National Radio and Television Council and the National Judicial Council. High Izbo, the Senate amendments do not in any way improve the state budget for 2016, on the contrary - they still highlight the reluctance of some institutions and social groups. What can be said as a summary? I'm not going back to the Sejm and the Senate's actual size. A very high deficit of the state budget was adopted, and in mid-December last year this deficit was even increased manipulatively in the previous year. I will add the loosening of the spending rule, and the introduced new taxes: banking and the store that is not yet available, we can already see, are burdening ordinary citizens. Commitments, what you promised Poles in the election campaign, are not implemented because the 500+ family bill is just a substitute that has divided even children in our country. Finally, why did the rapporteur, today discussing the Senate resolution containing 20 amendments to the budget, pour out so much demagogy and prejudice to everyone in this House except for the Law and Justice? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u277	Thank you very much. Seven Members joined the questions. I'm closing the list. [[Can I still answer that, Marshal? As rapporteur.]] After the questions. [[It's just that it would be good to...]] It'll be brief. Seven questions, seven minutes. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute. You were the first to sign up for Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u278	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have a budget ahead of me, exactly the draft budget, the National Judicial Council. The National Judicial Council planned a total of 35 300 000 for 2016. PLN for the purchase of real estate on its premises, as well as for the commencement of renovation works. I would like to remind you that the National Judicial Council - a constitutional body - does not have its own seat, is forced to rent office space on commercial terms. This represents more than 12% expenditure and increasing steadily. The efforts to obtain a seat from the Treasury's resources did not result. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights has welcomed this draft budget. Even in the Committee on Public Finance, although in reserve, funds were left for this purpose. Unfortunately, the Senate in amendments 17 and, in particular, 18. [[♪ The bell ♪]] National Judicial Council of any chance.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u279	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u280	I have a question: How and when will the matter of ensuring the seat of the National Judicial Council be resolved? I'd like a written reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u281	Thank you very much. Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u282	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Senate's resolution, amendment 18, significantly reduces the assets of the National Judicial Council in the amount of 35 300 thousand. zł - for the remuneration of retired prosecutors and the remuneration of prosecutors. I have no interest in increasing this professional group's salaries. My concern is the fact of a large scale, I believe, of this problem, because the amount is very large, and it is a supplement to the budget. My question is: Is the reason for this state of affairs is the retirement of prosecutors on a larger scale than ever before, and will the funds be allocated to checks for outgoing prosecutors? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u283	Thank you very much, Member. Now the question will be asked by Barbara Chrobak, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u284	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Both I and my professional community are pleased to note that finally, after so many years of our efforts, the legislative authority has noticed the financial collapse of the prosecutor's office. The PO-PSL governments haven't seen this problem in eight years. The independent Attorney General for so many years of his reign could only take care of his seat without taking care of the others. Thus, without renovations, the prosecutors remained on the front line for years with outdated and depreciated tools. And so, for years in abusive conditions, with scandalous earnings, the employees of the prosecutor's office must work. Today's decision to increase the resources allocated to the prosecutor's office, in particular the remuneration of its employees, this repair process, the process of rebuilding the structures of the state we are starting. On behalf of both my own and a few thousand prosecutors, I would like to thank the current Minister of Justice, the prosecutor general, [[♪ The bell ♪]] For the first step in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u285	Thank you very much, Member. Now you ask Rafał Wójcikowski, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u286	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The question is about the KRS. Since the funds were not available this year, whether the possible money that would arise if the reserves were not used could not be earmarked for the seat of the KRS, because the absence of the KRS's seat in the long term seems to be... It is simply a shame that the second floor or the first floor of the General School of Rural Farm is the seat of the KRS. So that it often happens that reserves are not used in the budget, and this money could be spent on quite representative and fundamental, in terms of the image of the state, the case - building the seat of the KRS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u287	Thank you very much. Now the question is asked by Mr Jan Szewczak, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u288	I wanted to ask the rapporteur and Mrs Hennig-Kloska, who is not here in the Chamber, who, in my opinion, does not understand what she was talking about. It is important to distinguish, in my opinion, the question of compensation or the question of judicial settlement from the issue of loans that you mentioned here. I would like to say that Tadeusz Rydzyk's father's university will indeed receive around 26 million in the settlement, but the German RMF station, a radio station owned by a German entity, a foreign entity, will receive 83 million in compensation after a dispute with the National Radio and Television Council, which lasted 13 years. And yet I would like to remind the representatives of the Modern, who raise such fundamental objections, that the settlement on the PZU, which previously [[♪ The bell ♪]] The coalition concluded, cost us a dozen billion zlotys together. So you really need some moderation to make sense of it all. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u289	Thank you, sir. The question is asked by Mrs Anna April, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u290	Mr. Marshal! Membership! I am speaking particularly to Mr Wójcikowski here. Mr 500+, this is the first step in saving the social security system, because every social security system exists through generational substitution. Without children, without generations, every system will collapse. And that is why I thank you very much from this point of view again for this programme, because I believe that this is the first and most important step to save the social security system. That's all. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u291	Thank you very much. [[Can I correct it?]] Mr Jerzy Gosievski, Club Law and Justice. [[It can't be corrected, that's fine.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u292	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, Today we finish talking about the state budget for 2016. I would like to express my deep appreciation for President Andrzej Jaworski, who was determined to hold a committee meeting where the opposition kept interfering... [[Voice from the room: Question!]] ...ambivalent speeches, ambivalent proposals, which on the one hand... [[Voice from the room: Question, question!]] The Member is laughing because he organized a press conference at his home in the voivodship, where he completely denied it, because he did not make any proposals in the main project. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And I would like to ask the rapporteur a question: Is it true that we have worked in extremely difficult conditions? Is it true that there was one Member who expressed different opinions on each subject? Is it true that these proposals were ambivalent? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u293	Thank you very much. The Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Minister Hanna Majszczyk, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u294	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In answer to the questions of the Member State, which in principle concerned transfers and amendments related to the reduction of the provision for construction investments, planned construction investments for the National Council of Courts, and to the question of Mrs Tokarska, whether these funds will be allocated to checks for outgoing prosecutors, or to increases for prosecutors' staff, according to the information sent by the Minister of Justice, and in accordance with the amendment proposed, they will be allocated to increases for prosecutors' employees, so that the level of these increases in 2016 is at a comparable level as planned in part 15 for judicial staff, as these two professional groups have raised at the same levels. It's going to be a 10% raise. Of course, some of the planned funds will be allocated to retired prosecutors. Here it is difficult to say whether it will be on the check-in, rather simply on the pension benefits that are paid. As to whether or not the reason is greater than planned, the departures, yes, is the result of the information provided by the Minister of Justice in a letter addressed to the Senate, to the budget committee, where precisely such justification for these greater needs was presented as regards the two directions that I have spoken about, namely both the pay for prosecutors and the increase for prosecutors' employees. With regard to securing the seat of the National Judicial Council, if any savings can be made in the current year from the reserves for this purpose, it is difficult at this point to anticipate the savings and at which point they will appear. Such purchases must also be preceded by a contract and appropriate advances, as a rule, or by regular financing. So for this moment, today, it's hard to anticipate whether this possibility will appear. However, the idea has also emerged that it does not necessarily have to be a separate place for the seat of the National Council of Courts - it also stems from the information received from the Minister of Justice - that ultimately it should be considered and planned in such a way as to think about the seat of the National Court of Justice through a joint investment built with the Court of Appeal in Warsaw, so that these expenses are as rational as possible and aim to make the best use of public funds. I think those were the questions that were about the government. As for Mrs Zofia Czernow's question, as she asked, we will answer in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u295	Thank you very much. The rapporteur of the committee, Mr Andrzej Jaworski, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u296	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I thought nothing would surprise me in this Parliament, but at the moment when I heard from the opposition that in my report today I poured out so much anger, criticized all the clubs except for the Law and Justice, I was a little stunned, because the whole report sounded exactly like this: the Committee on Public Finance accepted all the amendments of the Senate. So I do not know what anger was in this formulation and how I criticized the entire opposition in this one sentence. Ladies and gentlemen! However, I would suggest some caution in saying the words that later remain in the transcript. I understand that Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, who said this, who is not in the Chamber now, simply prepared a text a few days earlier and read it. As regards the question of questions, that there were weak speeches on amendments and justifications, precisely those questions which were asked, the answers were answered, and no one asked any questions from PSL, as I recall, so it was impossible for the committee to answer questions unanswered. Mrs Hennig-Kloska - stop wasting Poles' money. Dear opposition, 500+ programme and introduction of 500 PLN per child is not a waste of money, it is an investment in the family and I think it should also respect this language a little bit more, especially if we speak publicly. As far as compensation is concerned for the Lux Veritatis Foundation, this topic was not taken up in the Committee on Public Finance, and if you are interested, I propose that you read the statement of Mr Janusz Piechociński of PSL, Deputy Prime Minister of the coalition government of PO-PSL, who said directly to all interested journalists and the public that the decision to withdraw this money for geothermal research in Toruń was a political decision, not a substantive decision, and was only intended to harm this investment. Consequently, the court had no other option, and the settlement had to take place. I am pleased that the Minister for the Environment has informed that he is considering referring the matter to the relevant authorities at the moment, if such statements have taken place. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u297	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: Report from the Administrative and Home Affairs Commission on the adoption of the Senate on the Law on the Re-Use of Public Sector Information (Prints No. 252 and 260). I would like to ask Mr Jerzy Polak to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u298	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As rapporteur for the draft law on the re-use of public sector information, I would like to inform the High House that the Senate's amendments have been made. There are nine of these amendments. Yesterday there was a meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, at which all nine amendments of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs recommended that they be adopted. I would just like to give a few words to some of these amendments. Almost all are editorial amendments. I would like to draw attention to the fact that in the course of previous parliamentary work it was considered appropriate to provide information on meteorological data, geological data of the State Geological Institute. In the light of the adopted regulation at the Senate level, the Institute of Meteorology and Water Management will be obliged to provide free information on the state of the hydrosphere, on the state of the atmosphere, which are processed according to standard procedures, public authorities, all water owners and managers acting on their behalf, as well as research institutes, universities, scientific units of the Polish Academy of Sciences. In view of the fact that the bill under consideration raises a great deal of public interest, it is also, to some extent, a draft law that can launch new aspects of economic activity in the area of innovation, I would once again like to stress the very active participation both at the previous stage of the work in Parliament and yesterday at the meeting of ladies and gentlemen of all parliamentary clubs. I would like to point out that this draft was adopted in the form of a consensus, unanimously by a parliamentary vote. So much for me, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u299	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. He'll be the first to speak... [[Voice from the room: 3 minutes.]] Three minutes? Indeed. That's good news. 3-minute statements on behalf of the clubs. Mr Jerzy Polakzek is the first to present the position of the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u300	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As I have just said as rapporteur, this time I would like to confirm as a representative of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice that Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the amendments tabled by the Senate. Once again, without referring to the content of these amendments, I would like to refer here to a number of decisions relating to this regulation. Namely, first of all, this law, to say that it regulates, in a new way, the re-use of public sector information by implementing here the European solutions contained in the Directives of 2003 and 2013. First of all, it offers a very good solution when it comes to accessing and expanding access to the resources of cultural objects such as archives, museums, libraries, in the so-called. The public domain. To date, these rules have only been regulated in one chapter of the Public Information Act and concerned only public information. As I have also referred to and presented at the meeting during parliamentary work, we point out as a parliamentary club that it will certainly be an interesting result of the implementation of this project that new services will emerge within the economic sector, which will be addressed to large audiences in terms of increasing access to cultural goods, but also all kinds of facilitations for the public, both in terms of public transport, but also on such issues as I mentioned earlier, i.e. access to meteorological data, to geological data. I can therefore say, once again, that the Senate amendments that the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs discussed yesterday, our parliamentary club accepts fully. Thank you for your attention, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u301	Thank you very much. Now on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform by Mrs Dorota Rutkowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u302	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Civic Platform Club will vote in favour of the amendments tabled by the Senate to the law on the re-use of public sector information. These amendments are different in nature, they are editorial, they are substantive, but in general their value is more precise, which, when creating a new law, a new law, in addition to implementing EU legislation, is extremely important. To sum up the work on this law, I would like to point out that the solutions contained in it are of great importance from a social point of view. The Act gives the possibility to use information e.g. By increasing added value or linking data from different sources to create applications and other innovative products, it opens up access to many data, which is primarily used for market and economic purposes, so it is also an opportunity for entrepreneurs. A novelty, as the rapporteur mentioned, is to enable such data to be made available to museums and archives, and it also guarantees respect for intellectual values. The provisions on the use of meteorological and hydrological information, which are invaluable in the forecasting of natural disasters, deserve to be emphasised. The draft of this law was created by the previous government, the Platform Government and PSL, but the changes proposed during the work of the committee and the subcommittee concerning above all information, let's call it, generally connected with the atmosphere are very right and our club appreciates this law positively. Referring once again to the Senate amendments, as I mentioned at the outset, the Platform Club will vote in favour of them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u303	Thank you very much, Member. Now Mr Bartosz Józwiak on behalf of the Kukiz Poselski Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u304	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Kukiz club15 on the draft law on the use of public sector information and implementing act. According to the applicant, this is a project that implements, implements EU law, i.e. directives, actually the 2013 Directive. The European Parliament and the Council, which amends the Directive of the same bodies adopted in 2003 - both directives concern the re-use of public sector information - and provides for a new way of implementing the amended Directive into the Polish legal order, which is to ensure a clearer and easier application of the re-use arrangements. This draft law, as has already been said many times, concerning access to the categories of the public sector, extends the scope of the categories to which we have access and greatly facilitates and standardizes the procedure for access to these data. In addition, it has many positive social, financial, economic impacts, for example, because it concerns, as has already been stressed here, in many aspects, elements of economic development or innovation. In addition, it facilitates access to the resources of works of Polish culture, for example in the case of information that can be obtained from libraries and museums, it also allows access to other countries and external environments, to Polish communities or other countries of the European Union, to expand the scope of public sector information to which we have access, reduces costs directly related to the use of information from this sector and increases the possibility of creating new business models based on information from this sector. The project has already passed almost the entire legislative path in both the Sejm and the Senate, and has received full acceptance of all parliamentary clubs each time. This rather rare compatibility of parliamentarians seems to confirm clearly the above-mentioned advantages of the project and the importance of its adoption. We are currently examining the document submitted by the Commission for Administration and Home Affairs concerning the whole of the Act as well as the last phase of the amendments, i.e. amendments proposed by the Senate of the Republic of Poland. All these amendments, in principle their vast majority, are clear and orderly, and it should be pointed out that all these amendments, as well as the entire draft, have been adopted by the committee unambiguously. This clarification contained in the amendments improves the quality of the entire law and the possibility of using it later. To a small extent, e.g. for the provision of meteorological data, the scope of access shall also be increased. The Kukiz Club15 supported this law at every legislative stage and in this case [[♪ The bell ♪]] We will also vote in favour of all amendments to the Senate and for the entire bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u305	Thank you very much, sir. Now Mr Mirosław Suchoń from the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u306	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am pleased to present my position on the Senate resolution on the Law on the Re-use of Public Sector Information. As my previous speakers have stressed many times here, the Senate's amendments are mainly tidy, precise. From the point of view of correctness of legislation, it is probably a good practice that where there is still room for improvement, change, clarify, make the law better, where the Senate makes these amendments, it makes the law better, more friendly to citizens. And this is also the case with this project. The law itself is the implementation of European Union law, and this has already been emphasised many times. This seems to be a good implementation. Very often it happens that this law that we implement is somehow incomprehensible, why there is so much of what it brings, whether it is necessary at all. On the other hand, this implementation is needed. She will have a very positive impact on the economy. Why? These public sector data - not only public information, but all public sector data, including museum resources, library resources, meteorological data, geodata - will be able to be used by our economy in such a way that this information will be aggregated and made available to citizens in the form of new services, new products. The impact of this activity is estimated to reach up to several percent of GDP across the European Union. In Poland this will probably be less, but it should not be forgotten that these public sector resources are in practice unlimited. Any information available to the public sector has its value, and this is the value that companies, especially companies in this part of the innovative economy, will be able to benefit from, to offer new services to citizens. Of course it is. It's also kind of a time when we're creating this new branch of the economy. Previously, because there was no such possibility in such a wide range, this branch was not able to form. However, with the new rules, new services should now be created. It is very important that, after many years of fighting, you can say that, including social organisations [[♪ The bell ♪]] information, meteo data and geodata will be made available. It's also in this area...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u307	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u308	Marshal, two more sentences.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u309	You demanded that it be three minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u310	Anyway, the club. Modern, of course, supports these amendments, will vote against them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u311	Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u312	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In accordance with the legislative procedure, the law on the re-use of public sector information has been reviewed in the Senator's Chamber. As demonstrated by the Senate's resolution, it submitted nine amendments to the text of the Act at its meeting on 19 February 2016, which resulted in their re-trial at the Board of Administration and Home Affairs. The Commission has carefully examined the amendments in terms of editorial correctness and in terms of clarification of the relevant provisions, following the principles of legislative technique. The Commission considered it appropriate to adopt the proposed amendments. Amendment 5, standardising the explicit identification of the catalogue of entities to which the National Archive Resources and Archives Act imposes certain obligations, deserves particular emphasis. It is also reasonable to clarify the wording of the Article. 194 point 15 of the Water Law Act on the rules adopted on the obligations of the Institute of Meteorology and Water Management. This information is crucial for the implementation of procedures concerning the state of the atmosphere and hydrosphere. The provision contained in the Public Information Access Act setting out the catalogue of entities required to transfer their information resources to the Central Public Information Repository is laid down. The other amendments harmonise terminology and properly arrange the provisions of the Act without leaving any legal gaps. High Seym! The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, on whose behalf I have the honour to speak, will vote in favour of the report of the printing commission No 260. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u313	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. I'm ordering a recess until the hour. 19. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 16 min. 59 hours 19 min 09]] I'm reopening the session. We are returning to the examination of item 1 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Culture and Media on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Radio and Television. We proceed to the third reading. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 239. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 239, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. 422 voted against, no one voted against, no one voted against, no one voted against. I state that the Sejm has passed a law on amending the Radio and Television Act. We return to the examination of item 4 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on amending the Law on political parties and the Code of Election. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. The question is asked by Mrs Joanna Schmidt, the Modern Club. How much time do you need? 1 minute? Here you go, one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u314	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A referendum took place in Poland in 2015. Of the 2.5 million Poles, almost 2.5 million Poles were in favour of changing the way the parties were financed. My question: To what extent does the proposed draft law of the Modern Club meet these expectations? And second question: Has any party ever published a full list of their expenses? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u315	Thank you, Member. This question is, I understand, addressed to the applicant's representative, right? The representative of the applicants is Mr Piotr Misilo. Would you like to speak? [[Yes.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u316	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Yes, the project submitted by the Modern is a far-reaching evolution of what we have today in the electoral code and in the law on the financing of political parties. But I will answer the second question in the first place, because it is fundamental, because yesterday, for the first time on the 25th anniversary of the free Polish political party, Marshal of the Sejm, representative of Law and Justice, and at the hands of Mr Neumann, President of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, a complete statement of all the expenses she has incurred since the beginning of her operation. I would like to assure you and all the voters, Poles that this is... [[Voice from the room: What's the question?]] Please? We're about to have a question. ...what we have put together, and what we have presented to you, is absolutely comprehensive information about what the Modern has spent every penny she has acquired. [[Applause, bustle in the hall]] Mr. Marshal... [[It wasn't won. It was taken from me.]] I would like to call on the heads of the Civic Platform and the Law and Justice to meet the expectations of Poles and also publish their reports. Only, ladies and gentlemen, full transparency of political parties, full transparency of the financing of political parties can heal the functioning of political parties, [[Applause]] because today it is far from ideal. I therefore appeal once again: publish, ladies and gentlemen, the full list of your expenditure. You can find them, our expenses, in the Modern Public Information Bulletin and on the website of the Watchdog Foundation. I invite you to get acquainted with these very important information, I think, for Poles. [[We're interested in revenue.]] As far as revenue is concerned, you can also find on the PKW website information about every dollar that the Poles have paid to us. These payments were, ladies and gentlemen, 9,5,000. Each dollar paid by Poles for our election campaign and for the modern political party is included in the list provided to the State Election Commission. [[Applause]] We encourage in-depth analysis. Ladies and gentlemen... [[What does that have to do with the case?]] The point is, ladies and gentlemen, that greed is good, greed is right, greed is effective, so said Gordon Gekko in the movie Wall Street. No, ladies and gentlemen, greed is evil, greed is not good. Greed kills politics and kills politicians. [[Applause]] Today, ladies and gentlemen, we have a unique opportunity to eliminate greed from the lives of political parties, from life, from the financing of political parties, and I would very much like to ask you to take this step. We may differ, ladies and gentlemen, you may have a different look at the financing of political parties, and that's okay, but let's talk about it. I ask you to direct this project to the committee to invite the experts from the Batory Foundation, the Jagiellonian Club, father of Tadeusz Rydzyk, to this committee, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] And Jurka Oatsiak to show... [[No!]] ...the state, how hard it is to collect money for such institutions as the Great Orchestra of Christmas Help and Radio Maryja. [[Applause]] This is a very good example, ladies and gentlemen, and I would like political parties to follow this example. [[No!]] We should always follow the rules we want...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u317	Mr. Speaker! Mr. President, could you please...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u318	...to be applied by everyone and always. [[Voice from the room: Question, man.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u319	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u320	Let's start with each other. Let's start today. Thank you very much. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u321	I ask you to answer questions for the future, not... [[Exactly.]] [[I'm happy.]] ...spoken in such a wide range that it is actually difficult to accept your statement as an answer to the question. [[The Member has led a policy with himself. And it's a business war.]] Mr Grzegorz Długi, the Kukiz Club15, also asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u322	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The question is to your applicant. I'm gonna start by saying we're noticing the problem, either. As you know, we have reported a similar issue. Therefore, the question is whether you are open enough to consider both projects, because we acknowledge that we share the need to change the funding system for political parties. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Here we are.]] The question is: Have you had the opportunity to look at the website? Stoppartiocratia.pl? Have you had the opportunity to note that our group did not take any dollars from taxpayers and wants [[Applause]] You want to keep this up? And did you draw attention to the fact that we want there to be no money from taxpayers in the next four years to fund it so that we can see the faces of politicians on billboards by entering all Polish cities? [[Applause]] Then I'll repeat it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Question: "Are you open to starting a real discussion about even further project proposed by Kukiz"15? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u323	Please. Does the applicant's representative want to respond? Please, Mr Piotr Misilo.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u324	Yes, ladies and gentlemen, yes, sir - we are absolutely open. [[Applause]] and we also call for this openness to law and justice politicians and the Civic Platform. [[No.]] On the other hand, with regard to the financing of parties outside the budget, there are three cases in the European Union: Malta, Ukraine and Belarus. Honestly, we don't really imagine going this way. But, as I said before, we are open, although we would prefer that the debate on the financing of political parties be drawn from examples such as Germany, the United Kingdom, France, the United States or the Nordic countries. However, once again, I ask you and I strongly appeal: let's talk about this. Let's talk about this in committee so that we can meet Poles' expectations in a rational and pragmatic way and make party funding fully transparent. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u325	There you go. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print No 222 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 250 Members voted against - 188, three Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has accepted the motion. We return to the consideration of item 5 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on amending the law on political parties and certain other laws. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Public Finance Committee for consideration. The questions have been raised by Members. Mr Piotr Misilo, Modern Club. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u326	The project you sent to the Sejm is a solution that is currently nowhere in the world. Only once did the Italians try to do it during Berlusconi's term. Of the 30 million persons entitled to this kind of write-down, 16 thousand have benefited. And it's up to $400,000. Euros. I'd rather it be an idea, as I said before, like German, French, possibly British or American. Where did you come up with that idea, ladies and gentlemen, to go down the Italian road, Mr. Berlusconi's way? It seems to us that this is not an optimal solution on the Polish political scene and we are very interested in motivation and inspiration just this failed direction. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u327	This is a question addressed to the applicant's representative. But before giving the floor to the applicant's representative, I would like to ask Mr Robert Winnicki from the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u328	Madam, I have a question. Is it true that this year spending on political parties is 18 million PLN for Law and Justice, the Civic Platform 15 million PLN, over 6 million PLN for Modern, and 4 million for PSL, and that... [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: We put everything into the budget.]] ...this spending mostly goes to polling spots and confetti parties? Is this the situation today, or is this the financing of Polish political parties? That's the first question. And second question. As if you could bring up the subject of binding and building a certain loyalty and political consequence among citizens by means of a mechanism that is included in the law presented by the Kukiz Club15. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u329	Please. The applicant's representative is Mrs Agnieszka Chasing. Would you like to... He'll want to speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u330	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I answer the question of Mr Moderne. Perhaps Mr Berlusconi did not deserve the trust of Poles, the trust of his constituents, I'm sorry, it's about the trust of Poles. [[Applause]] I would like to bring this up in response to Mr Winnicki's questions. Ladies and gentlemen! Our project is based on a mechanism that has so far been applied in Poland, it works out, a mechanism that is applied to NGOs, to organizations that collect money to a great extent for social purposes, very often they save sick children at a time when the country cannot do so, a mechanism that... This is the kind of organisation that citizens need to ask for donations. On the other hand, political parties have citizens' money in an unfair and unfair way, because no one asks them whether they want to transfer their taxes to these parties. The parties get this. So we are proposing a mechanism that will restore confidence - I will say: it will rebuild - because unfortunately for many years the political class has deserved that Poles do not trust it. Politicians are a profession which enjoys the lowest social confidence in those mentioned in which citizens are dealt with. That is why we want the citizen of 5 PLN of his tax to be able to pass on a political party he trusts, with which the program agrees, not one whose worldview absolutely does not suit him. It's a simple mechanism, you really don't need any complicated calculations. You have to learn to talk to voters, you have to learn to ask for their voice, as well as for 5 zlotys. It's not so hard when NGOs can do it. Really, ladies and gentlemen, there's nothing to be afraid of. We have taken up this challenge and are the third strength in parliament. We do not take money not because we cannot - we do not want, we consciously made this choice. [[Applause]] We're doing fine, ladies and gentlemen, really. We can prepare projects. We have to listen to our constituents. And they actually trust us not because we had the money. Then try with us, too. I can really do that. Please do not reject this project. I stress, please: take this challenge, try to rebuild with us the confidence in the political class, the politicians, the people who run this country. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u331	Please. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the bill contained in prints 249 and 249-A will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. Two Members abstained from voting 243 against - 194. I state that the Sejm has accepted the motion. We are returning to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the electoral code law, the local referendum law and the national referendum law. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. But before that, I will ask Mr Adam Snapshot from the Modern Club to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u332	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A good change doesn't need silence, the more fictitious silence. In June 1989 there was no electoral silence and millions of Poles made a good change. And so I have questions for the applicant. Is it true that the silence in Poland is completely fictional? Is it true that putting a Facebook likeness - such a popular social media portal, if someone didn't know - is actually breaking the electoral silence? Is it true that during the election silence one of the leaders of the election group is doing a concert outside Poland for Polish voters [[Applause]] And openly admit that this is fiction, and it's played out of this fictional solution? And is it true that during the silence of the election, text messages are sent to encourage voting? This is an absurd solution. Let's take it down because it doesn't lead to anything. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u333	Mr Wójcikowski from the Kukiz club15 with a question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u334	I wanted to ask the question: Is speaking to a member of the government on television during the silence of the election is breaking the silence of the election... [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] [[Applause]] ...if he's part of the election party, isn't he breaking the electoral silence? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u335	Well, in that case, we'll ask... I wanted to ask Mrs Marta Golbik, the representative of the applicants, whether she wanted to address these questions. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u336	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I am very pleased to see you here today, because yesterday's interest was much less... [[Voice from the room: Talk about yourself.]] ...when we were at the presentation of our bill. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[I didn't see you talking about damage either.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The important thing is that all clubs were in agreement yesterday about the fact that the silence of the election is now fiction. [[Applause]] Everyone agrees that the silence on the Internet is not functioning. Internet access is common nowadays. 70% Poles have Internet access. As far as the most popular social network is concerned, it currently has 20 million users and the campaign is taking place on this social network. There's so-called. The likes, they're made available there, where the voters post photos from the polls, they discuss their election preferences there. And the PKW has to decide what it means to break the electoral silence and what it isn't. But worst of all, there is no respect for the law that still works. Yesterday, Mr Schreiber of Law and Justice, who made a statement on behalf of the club, agreed with me that the electoral silence currently does not work on the Internet, agreed with me that it was necessary to work on it, and, surprisingly, he requested that the project be rejected at first reading. I do not know what this is from, but I hope that, after the discussion, you will want to work on this bill in committee because, as I said, everyone agrees on the validity of our bill. And now most importantly - ladies and gentlemen, we have a really embarrassingly low turnout in Poland. That's the subject we need to take care of. We need to involve our citizens in decision-making processes, and we will not do this differently than others. by eliminating the silence of the election, by encouraging them to vote and by eliminating those laws that are currently not functioning at all. Let's let our voters decide when they want to make a decision. If we allow them to decide who they choose as their representatives, let them also decide when they decide. To answer Mr Kukiz's question15 - I hope you will support our bill. It is now possible, during the silence of the electoral presence, only for the ruling group. A ruling group can appear on television, show its successes, talk about what it has achieved, and no opposition group can do that. And that's how the electoral silence works today. That is why I call on you to continue working on our bill and not to reject our project simply because it is a modern project, because it is a good project. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] And they all agree on his right. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u337	There you go. [[Mr. Marshal...]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law contained in print No 224 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. Four Members abstained in favour of 244 votes against - 192. I state that the Sejm has accepted the motion. [[Mr. Marshal, on a formal matter...]] In formal mode? Please, Mr Eugeniusz Trouble with a formal request.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u338	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Seym! I asked to be heard by the honourable Member because she misled the House. From the transcript, please exclaim my statement on behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club that we do not support this proposal that you have made. Because I started my speech with this: If we were on Friday before the election, before...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u339	But, sir, this is not a formal proposal, I am so sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u340	My request is for your marshal to let me explain this matter, because it can't be...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u341	Sir, that's what you could do in the debate. You're not performing in question mode right now. With a formal application - please, but this is not a formal application. Right now, you're having a discussion, a debate. [[Break and Senior Convention.]] [[Don't give me ideas like that.]] We return to the examination of item 7 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on the amendment of the Trade Union Act and the Labour Code Act. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs for consideration. The questions have been raised by the Members. Katarzyna Lubnauer, Modern Club. [[Let's take a break, let them meet and answer.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u342	Something wrong with that name... Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Is that true, I'm addressing the designer... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[That's not true.]] ...is it true that the Modern Project has passed the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office and the Legal Office of the Sejm? That's the first question. Second question. Is it true that, in the context of the judgment of 2 June 2015 on the Trade Union Act, the Constitutional Tribunal obliged the Government to work as soon as possible on the new Trade Union Act to remedy the shortcomings in the possibility of the association of persons who are not employees? And I wanted to ask you: What are the main assumptions proposed by the modern change? [[Applause]] [[What do we care?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u343	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Porwich, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u344	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Bureau of Analysis of the Supreme Court has violated the Modern Project along and across... [[Voice from the room: Bravo! Bravo!]] ...upstairs downstairs, [[Applause]] without leaving a dry thread on it... [[Yes, sir.]] ...to conclude that the project should not be the subject of further legislative work. Do you think - the question to the rapporteur - that we can continue to work on this very bad project? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Exactly.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u345	Of course, we are talking about an applicant, but before I raise him, I will ask Mr Jan Mosiński from the Law and Justice Club to ask for a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u346	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! [[Voice from the room: Hands out of your pockets.]] Question to applicants: Is it true that the work on the bill has been commissioned by employers who are withdrawing from your proposals today? That's one thing. Is it true that you want to break the constitution and numerous international law standards by introducing this project to the Sejm? And is it true that you want to, because you are already exhausted from this pathetic CODE condukt, torch Poland, by instigating all the union headquarters in Poland with their changes? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u347	Please. The representative of the applicants shall be Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz. He's gonna take the floor right now. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u348	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Let me apologize for the condition of my throat and voice at first, but I am a citizen of Krakow and like dozens of people. [[♪ The bell ♪]] thousands of Krakowans suffer from chronic throat inflammation due to smog. [[Voice from the room: Change the city.]] I would like to tell you that the 20 million you took to fight the smog and handed over to Father Rydzyk is unacceptable. [[Applause]] [[What does that have to do with anything?]] You're leading to a situation when the principal's father...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u349	Mr President, I would ask you to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u350	...will splash in warm water, and people in Krakow will die because of smog. And now I'm gonna answer the question. [[You're talking pretty good.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u351	And, sir, get to the point.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u352	Get to the point. I will respond to the Member of the Law and Justice. We've prepared this bill ourselves... [[Yeah, right.]] ...on the basis of the consultations we had before the elections when we were creating our programme, which was considered to be worthy of support, and that is why so many people voted for us. If you say you are fulfilling your promises to your constituents, give us this chance. That's the kind of project we bring in. [[Legally.]] As far as the law is concerned, here was the legal assessment of this project. I would like to remind you that according to the article. Paragraph 34 (8) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm authorised for first reading are only those projects which do not give rise to doubt comply with the basic principles of legislative technique. In this regard, do you think that the Sejm Bureau, the Legal Office of the Sejm, do not know what they are working on and do not know the law? [[Applause]] This project would not have gone to first reading if there were any doubts As to the fact that it's legal. On the other hand, as regards the judgment, the Supreme Court's assessment of this project was indeed critical. Let me quote: From a legal point of view, the proposed amendment does not raise objections, and the assessment of the validity of its introduction is based on non-legal criteria. I would also like to refer to our second proposal. It concerns the collection of trade union contributions. I also quote the Supreme Court's opinion: It must also be pointed out that legitimate reservations require not only a regulation which requires the employer to levy trade union contributions, but also a regulation which allows for such a possibility. The effect is this: the Supreme Court believes that we are too soft, that we should demand more rigorously that the employer does not have such an obligation. What's going on here? This is a quote from an opinion that has just been quoted. We want to bind Polish companies. The entities that are owned by the State Treasury are 3/4. We want to remove the financial burden from employers, so that the union also covers the widest possible group of private enterprises, because that is the logic. I would like to make it clear that, as an applicant, we are asking the High House to send the draft Trade Unions Act to the committee because there were many speeches yesterday during the debate that indicate that there are points on which we agree. On the other hand, as regards the fact that the Supreme Court has indicated that there are certain things in this law relating to the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, I would like to assure you that this judgment has been partially enforced. Namely, this judgment of the Supreme Court deleted one provision, limited the other, which allows people who are not employed on the basis of a contract of employment, to establish trade unions. This can be decided at any time by a court which will grant the right to trade unions. However, the fact that since 1991 no one has leaned over this law, which is already completely archaic, is not a claim to the Modern, which for the first time is in parliament. The State should consider whether it was necessary to consider earlier the amendment of this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u353	Please. The Minister of Environment, Mr Jan Szyszko, asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u354	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! [[We'll shoot at the bison and cut out the Bialowieza Forest.]] I would very much ask Mr Meysztowicz not to mislead the High House. I would like to say that in 2008, the Lux Veritatis Foundation received funding for the implementation of the research hole of Toruń geothermals and the investment was started. In 2008, the Management Board of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management broke the agreement with Lux Veritatis Foundation. The Lux Veritatis Foundation has passed the board to the court. [[Where's the money for Gdańsk Shipyard?]] The trial has been going on for eight years. The judgment of the court is that, unfairly, in breach of the law, the Management Board of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management broke the agreement with Lux Veritatis Foundation. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] The court has proposed a settlement. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Not the court, just the government.]] The settlement was settled and the court ruled [[Rise in the room, ring the bell]] it has been made clear that the Lux Veritatis Foundation is entitled to money. [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] I would also like to say that, as Minister of Environmental Protection supervising the National Environmental Fund, I can say that the Treasury has suffered a loss. As the State Treasury has suffered a loss, the case will be... [[The D.A.'s gonna check it out.]] ...dedicated to the control factors. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] [[Mr. Marshal, the corrigendum.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u355	Mr Meysztowicz as corrected, right? [[Yes.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u356	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Minister! You're misleading people again. What court order? Don't you know what a pre-trial settlement is? This is a settlement that is concluded before the court, and the sentence only accepts this agreement. [[It's not a sentence. It's a resolution.]] If the government hadn't offered this agreement, but fought for the right money to the end, the foundation wouldn't have gotten the money - Kraków would have got it. [[Applause]] So please don't tell me this happened as a result of a court order, just a settlement that the government has proposed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u357	We'll proceed with the vote. [[Voices from the room: corrected.]] Minister, later, we will proceed with the vote first. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print No 225 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. There were 272 votes against and 159 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has accepted the motion. [[Applause]] Environment Minister Jan Szyszko wanted to speak, right? There you go. [[Voice from the hall: What about the woods?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u358	Mr. Marshal! Your Honor! [[Joy in the hall, applause, bell]] [[Court later.]] Excuse me, I actually feel like I'm in court. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The verdict of the court is clear... [[Voice from the room: This is not a sentence]] ...the contract has been terminated with a flagrant violation of the law. [[For political reasons.]] If it wasn't for the deal, because the court proposed it, then the verdict would be that... [[That you wouldn't get over yourself.]] ... The State Treasury would suffer losses of PLN 11 million more. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] For this reason, I believe that the current fund, the management of the National Environmental Fund, has shown great negotiating efficiency, [[Joy in the Chamber]] On the other hand, I can say that the Lux Veritatis Foundation, once again, would get PLN 11 million more. In this situation, the losses of the State Treasury amount to only PLN 5 million. As far as this 5 million PLN is concerned, I will try to ask the control authorities to find the guilty person who is to return it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u359	We return to the review of item 11 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on the amendment of the Act on income tax on individuals and the Act on income of local government units. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Public Finance Committee for consideration. The question was raised by Mr Jacek Protas, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u360	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, after learning about a weak, incomplete, even harmful presidential bill amending the Act on Income Tax on Individuals, submitted its own project, which not only constructively responds to the judgment of the Constitutional Court of October last year, but also protects the financial interests of Polish local governments. We are therefore very surprised that you do not want to discuss this project and want to reject it at first reading. My question is: Is it true that the adoption of the presidential project will result in financial collapse of Polish local governments, because they will lose revenue of PLN 8 billion per year, which may result in the suspension of infrastructure investments and non-use [[♪ The bell ♪]] huge measures from a European financial perspective...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u361	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u362	...for the years 2014 and 2020? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u363	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Answer!]] [[Voice from the room: This is the answer.]] [[Voice from the room: Applicant!]] [[Voice from the room: Voting!]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print No 221 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[There was a question.]] [[The Minister wants an answer.]] Please take your seat and don't disturb me. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] 436 Members voted. 232 voted against - 204, no one abstained. I state that the Sejm has accepted the motion. [[Voice from the room: But democratically.]] [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: Very democratically.]] I inform you that I have not given the floor to the applicant... [[We saw it. Why?]] That's because the question hasn't been put forward. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] The Minister of Finance, Paweł Szalamach, asks for the floor. There you go. [[Disgraceful!]] [[It wasn't like there was a question.]] [[Voice from the room: These are balls.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u364	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! [[♪ The bell ♪]] The free amount of PIT was first recorded in the Law and Justice Programme in February of the 20,000th year. [[Two thousand fourteenth.]] I remember that because I was part of the creation... [[Ninety thousand.]] ...of this program. That's what we're getting at. The state over the past few months, in the summer of the previous year, has claimed that there is no possibility of increasing the tax-free amount, you have threatened with great consequences. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I therefore conclude, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that the amount of tax-free PIT will be implemented consistently in the following years, in stages so as to achieve the objective that we assume, but this will be done on our terms, in accordance with the agreed timetable and reconstruction of tax revenues that have been collapsed by the Platform. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[May I? Formal conclusion.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u365	Formal proposal, Mr Sławomir Neumann. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u366	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would ask your marshal to conduct these proceedings properly, because when the question came to the applicants, you did not give the floor to the applicant, but after the end of this point you gave the floor to the finance minister - when we were already outside this point. This is indecent conduct, Mr. Marshal. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Oh, my gosh!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u367	I would like to ask you Members: if you want me to ask questions to give the floor to applicants, ask a question rather than make a statement. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] We are returning to the review of item 18 of the agenda: Report from the Social Policy Committee and the Family on the draft law amending the Act on one-off allowance for certain pensioners, pensioners and persons receiving pre-retirement benefits, pre-retirement benefits, bridge pensions or teacher compensation benefits in 2016. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 258. We'll proceed with the vote. [[It's not working.]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 258 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. The vote was 428 against - 10 and 1 Member abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a one-off money allowance law for certain pensioners, pensioners and persons receiving pre-retirement benefits, pre-retirement benefits, bridge pensions or teacher compensation benefits in 2016. We are returning to the examination of item 14 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the adoption of the Senate on the 2016 Budget Act. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. We will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate's amendments. In the first amendment to Article. 1 Senate proposes that about 2501 thousand. PLN increase the expenditure of the Senate Registry at the expense of reducing the special-purpose reserve in item 82. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. Mr Janusz Cichoń, the Civic Platform Club, asks.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u368	Mr. Marshal! Dear Prime Minister, High Izbo! Among the amendments that we will be voting on in a moment are five which the government's opinion was negative. Despite this negative opinion, the senators, and then the PiS Members, in the work of the committee, voted on these amendments. In this context, I have a question. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Prime Minister: Who is responsible for public finances? Are you the finance minister, Prime Minister, or are you the president now? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u369	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 1st amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. The absolute majority is 221. 205 Members voted against - 233, two Members abstained. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 1 and Article 1 17 The Senate proposes that about 1252 thousand. PLN increase current expenditure in Part 25: Physical culture for the launch of national staff at the Olympic Games in Rio de Janeiro and the tasks imposed by the Public Health Act at the expense of reducing the budget of the National Radio and Television Council. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. The absolute majority is 220. 124 Members voted against - 310, with 5 abstentions. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 1 and Article 1 17 The Senate proposes that by 452 thousand. PLN increase salaries in part 40: Tourism at the expense of reducing current expenditure of the National Radio and Television Council. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. The absolute majority is 220. 135 Members voted against - 300, three Members abstained. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. 1 and Annex 2 the Senate proposes to add a new special reserve for the design of the Stanisław Pyjas monument in Krakow in the year preceding the 40th anniversary of his death, in the amount of 100,000. PLN, at the expense of reducing the current expenditure of the National Radio and Television Council. [[Applause]] The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 4th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. The absolute majority is 220. Six Members voted against - 431, two Members abstained. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. 1 Senate proposes that about 5395 thousand. increase the resources for the remuneration of the State Labour Inspection at the expense of reducing the overall reserve of the Council of Ministers. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. The question is raised by Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u370	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the Prime Minister. Well, on the income side of the budget... On the income side... On the income side... On the income side... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: Did you cut yourself?]] On the income side... On the income side... [[Prime Minister Beata Szydło talks to ministers]] Prime Minister... [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] On the income side of the budget a month ago we wrote down that there would be income from the taxation of hypermarkets of foreign networks. Today, this formula that has been adopted, which is somewhere in the plans... [[Question.]] ...puts a tax on our Polish networks. This has nothing to do with competitiveness, but two days ago, Minister Skiba declared that the income assumed and assumed [[♪ The bell ♪]] they are unrealistic and they will not be realised at that level. [[Voice from the room: Time!]] Is the Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u371	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u372	...puts an amendment to the budget because it's already known in advance after a month that the revenue will not be realised? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u373	Excuse me, in your speech, you deviate from the subject matter. The amendment concerns something else. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 5th amendment... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Minister, the amendment was about something else. The Member asked a question not on the subject. [[Then let the Minister speak.]] Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 5th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. The absolute majority is 220. 63 Members voted against - 373 and 3 Members abstained. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. The Minister of Finance, Mr Paweł Szalamach, asks for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u374	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Member misled the public, claiming that the project which was presented taxed Polish shops and that it was directed towards them. He was designed so, although it is, of course, very difficult, because we are subject to the pressure of European Union legislation, so that the tax-free amount of PLN 18 million makes this small Polish trade group not subject to the rigour of this tax. So don't sell it, don't distribute information that's not true. We know that there are very decent, very large PR companies working on this black PR. We're working on this bill. It will be presented to the House in a few weeks. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u375	However, I would ask that we stick to the subject rather than talk a little bit about other things. In the 6th amendment to the article. 1 The Senate proposes that about 5477 thousand. PLN increase expenditure of the Institute of National Remembrance - Commission for the pursuit of Crimes against the Polish Nationals at the expense of reducing the special reserve in item 82. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. The question is asked by Mr Michael Szczerba, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u376	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! It's a curiosity situation. [[Voice from the room: Ask.]] We increase the expenditure of the Institute of National Remembrance by PLN 5.5 million... [[Good.]] ...to ensure that the expenditure of this institution in 2016 amounts to more than PLN 100 million. [[Okay, that's very good.]] The question is: Where is the increase in expenditure on the functioning of the constitutional body - the ombudsman? Let me just remind you that this House, with the support of the government, your President, has made a scandalous decision to reduce the expenditure of the Ombudsman's office by a quarter. [[Room voice: Conservative.]] About 10 million PLN in relation to the plan... [[You're pissing.]] ...who was presented by the Ombudsman. This is 3.5 million less for the functioning of the Ombudsman's Office than in 2015. Where's the money? Does the government accept this scandalous situation? [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Bravo, Michael.]] [[You've got to save money.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u377	Thank you very much. In the 6th amendment to the article. 1st Senate... I'm sorry. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 6th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. The absolute majority is 220. 164 Members voted against - 274, with 1 abstention. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 7th amendment to the article. 17 The Senate proposes that in the Lesser Poland Voivodeship about 120 thousand. zł increase the current expenditure of the Road Transport Inspection at the expense of reducing the current expenditure of other budgetary units. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 7th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. The absolute majority is 220. 23 Members voted against - 404, 11 Members abstained. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 8th Amendment to Annex 2 the Senate proposes that by 3419 thousand. PLN increase the current expenditure of the Supreme Audit Chamber at the expense of reducing property expenditure. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 8th Amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. The absolute majority is 221. The vote was 29 against - 408, and 3 Members abstained. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 9th Amendment to Annex 2 the Senate proposes that by 3705 thousand. PLN increase expenditure on salaries at the National Election Office at the expense of reducing subsidies for municipalities to maintain a permanent electoral register. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 9th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. The absolute majority is 220. The vote was 188, against - 232, with 19 Members holding back. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 10th Amendment to Annex 2 the Senate proposes that by 120 thousand. PLN increase current expenditure in Part 21: Maritime economy at the expense of reducing expenditure in Part 20: Economy. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 10th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. The absolute majority is 219. The vote was 29 against 405 and 3 Members abstained. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 11th Amendment to Annex 2 the Senate proposes that 22 000. zł increase benefits to individuals in part 48: Economics with fossil deposits at the expense of reducing these benefits in part 20: Economy. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 11th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. The absolute majority is 218. One Member voted against - 431, two Members abstained. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 12th Amendment to Annexes 2 and 8 the Senate proposes to increase grants and subsidies by PLN 2 million in Part 30: Education and education at the expense of reducing grants and subsidies in Part 45: Foreign affairs. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 12th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. The absolute majority is 220. Three Members voted against - 436, no one abstained. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 13th Amendment to Annexes 2 and 6, the Senate proposes that by 259 thousand. PLN increase current expenditure and salaries in Part 31: Work at the expense of reducing current expenditure and salaries in Part 45: Foreign affairs. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is against the 13th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. The absolute majority is 220. 14 Members voted against - 421, and four Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 14th Amendment to Annexes 2 and 6, the Senate proposes that by 500,000. PLN increase current expenditure in part 74: Public Prosecutor's Office of the State Treasury at the expense of reducing current expenditure in part 36: State Treasury. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 14th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. The absolute majority is 220. 10 Members voted against - 418 and 10 Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 15th Amendment to Annex 2 the Senate proposes to increase the Church Fund by PLN 8 million at the expense of reducing the reserve in part 83 to finance statutory election and referendum tasks by the National Election Office. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 15th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. The absolute majority is 219. 147 Members voted against - 284 and 5 abstentions. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 16th Amendment to Annex 2, the Senate proposes an editorial amendment. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 16th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. The absolute majority is 217. The vote was 2 against - 431, and no one abstained. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 17th amendment to Annex 2 the Senate proposes to add a new special reserve in Part 83: Renovation and adaptation of historic mall buildings for the State Higher Vocational School. Hippolita Cegielskiego w Gniezno with the amount of grants and grants of PLN 3 million at the expense of reducing the property expenditure of the National Court Council. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 17th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. The absolute majority is 220. 144 Members voted against - 291, three Members abstained. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 18th Amendment to Annexes 2 and 6 the Senate proposes that 35 300 000. PLN increase current expenditure in part 88: General organisational units of the prosecutor's office at the expense of reducing property expenditure. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. The question is raised by Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u378	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In the course of the work on the state budget, all the measures that were being brought forward and submitted in its draft by the government, which were intended for the prosecution, were secured. The measures planned by the National Judicial Council were created, a special reserve, and in this respect it was not indicated during the work on the budget that there were additional needs for the prosecution's remuneration. This amendment is proposed by the Senate to allocate 35 300 000. PLN for salaries and salaries of retired prosecutors, for benefits. I would therefore like to ask if this was a mistake at the planning stage, because there was no indication of this and all the government amendments to the budget were accepted during the work in the Sejm. Is the Senate [[♪ The bell ♪]] Did he have to correct the government? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u379	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 18th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. The absolute majority is 220 Members. 191 Members voted against - 246, two Members abstained. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 19th amendment to Annex 2, the Senate proposes a different name for the special-purpose reserve under heading 88. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 19th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The absolute majority is 216 Members. Two Members abstained in voting 3, against - 425 Members. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 20th amendment to Annex 11 the Senate proposes amendments to the Financial Plan of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture enabling the implementation of subsidies to the temporary line of turnover credits to finance the costs of agricultural production during the waiting period for the payment for 2015. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. The question is raised by Paulina Hennig-Kloska, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u380	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! On this occasion, I wanted to ask you whether we will always have to pay taxpayers' money for the failure of the ruling party. You have fired workers from the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, and today there is really no one to support the subsidies, so we need to give money from the state budget to farmers for the credit subsidies they need to borrow. This is unacceptable. [[Applause]] Of course, as a club we will vote in favour, but the situation is really unacceptable to take over power in Poland... [[P.O.'s sitting there. P.I.'s sitting here.]] ...so there's no one in these agencies. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Even the PSL didn't applaud.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u381	We'll proceed with the vote. The Minister of Finance, Mr Paweł Szalamach, asks for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u382	Thank you, Marshal. Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! We are about to vote on the last amendment and the budget will be adopted. I would therefore like to provide the High House with some information about the events of recent weeks. Since mid-January, when a negative decision was made by one of the credit rating agencies and there has been a temporary collapse of Polish bonds, we have seen a very positive trend, i.e. a constant reduction in profitability by about 30 basis points. We've been working hard on this. [[Applause]] We recovered this level of profitability already before mid-January, even temporarily coming down below. It was quite hard work to make up for those losses that were caused by... [[Voice from the room: With what?]] ...everyone knows how. [[Rise in the room, ring the bell]] [[Voice from the room: Listen up.]] Also in recent weeks, the last 3 months in the Ministry of Finance we have undertaken a lot, a number of concrete actions, real activities, very difficult, always controversial personal changes, legal changes. A number of these changes are already in force, a number are at different stages of adoption. They also had the first positive effects. [[Voice from the room: What?]] [[Look, don't interrupt.]] The budgetary revenue in January 2016 was PLN 2 billion higher than the planned revenue. [[Applause]] But as with bonds, the most important is the trend, as with income, the most important is the trend, i.e. We need to work on this so that this January event continues in February, March and the following months. And it's happening. Today, the Permanent Committee of the Council of Ministers adopted a draft law introducing the so-called. a tax circumvention clause for the Polish legal system. It concerns both income taxes and VAT. I hope it will be adopted by the High House as soon as possible. In the course of the work on further legislative proposals, and of course, as it is natural in democracy, they encounter questions, resistance to criticism, of course. The basic line of criticism that has already been outlined during the budget debate is that the reconstruction of the public revenue system in Poland will take place through oppressive actions, by threatening entrepreneurs, through continuous checks and making the lives of entrepreneurs, taxpayers impossible. That's not gonna happen. We're working very hard on ourselves. The tax administration will do great work on itself this year. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] We will introduce the National Tax Administration from 1 January, so we will close the many efficiency gaps that are currently functioning in the system. [[We'll see.]] We've presented a bill that will definitely speed up the IT processes in the IRS. As you know, so far, IT processes in the public domain have taken three to four years, the results have been questionable and often questions about the appropriateness of spending these funds. We don't have three or four years to achieve that result. For this reason, we have proposed a special focus on the same logic as in the case of the LNG terminal or in the case of the Euro 2012, an institutional solution that will allow us to perform quickly, within a few months, activities that usually take several years. We're not able to wait a few years for results. These and other proposals will be made in the House, concerning both administration, IT and legal solutions in the case of VAT and income taxes. Today we have presented a project that we are carrying out, I would say, this logic or philosophy that we will be guided by at the Ministry of Finance... [[But we're talking about the budget bill.]] ...a tax introducing a rate of 15% for small taxpayers in relation to CIT, and a tax which closes a number of axiological gaps in the system of taxes on very large money, on large transactions, [[Applause]] The money has been leaked so far. In other words, where possible, we create start-up conditions for small companies and for their development. You will remember that we used in previous weeks, months of this idea that we will create the conditions for small companies to become medium-sized and medium-sized companies. And that's what this is - a 15% CIT rate for the small ones, that's their growth path. Therefore, Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, I ask you to wish me success. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u383	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 20th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. The absolute majority is 214. The vote was 2 against - 421 Members, with 4 abstentions. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the 2016 budget law. [[Applause]] We are returning to the examination of item 15 of the agenda: Report from the Administrative and Home Affairs Commission on the adoption of the Senate on the Law on the Re-Use of Public Sector Information. Let's move on to the vote. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the first amendment to Article. 2 (2) 1 The Senate proposes to amend its referral. Amendment 2 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of rejecting Amendments 1 and 2, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. The absolute majority is 218. One Member voted against 434, no one abstained. I state that the Sejm accepted the amendments by an absolute majority. In the third amendment to the article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 4 (2) of the Senate proposes that the words "objects' be deleted. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. The absolute majority is 218. Nobody voted against 434, no one abstained. I state that the Sejm accepted the amendment unanimously. In the 4th amendment to the article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 The Senate proposes amendments to the offer containing the conditions for re-use of public sector information or information on the amount of re-use fees. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 4th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. The absolute majority is 220. Nobody voted against - 438, no one abstained. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. Point 25 (2) of the Senate proposes an amendment to Article. 16a. 2 laws on national archives and archives. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 5th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. The absolute majority is 218. Everyone voted against. I state that the Sejm adopted the amendment unanimously. In the 6th amendment to the article. 30 The Senate proposes to amend Article. 194, paragraph 15 of the Water Law Act. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 6th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. The absolute majority is 219. Nobody voted against - 437, no one abstained. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 7th amendment to the article. 30 The Senate proposes to amend Article. 110. The law on water law. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 7th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. The absolute majority is 215. No one voted in favour of - 429, no one abstained. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 8th amendment to the article. 31, point 4, point (a) b The Senate proposes amendments to Article. Article 9a (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 2 Public Information Access Act. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 8th Amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. The absolute majority is 219. No one voted against - 436, no one abstained. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 9th amendment to the article. 35 The Senate proposes amendments to Article. Article 46 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Civil Records Act. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 9th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. The absolute majority is 219. Nobody voted against - 436, no one abstained. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 25 February this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. I'm ordering a two-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 20 min. 29 hours 20 min 36]] I'm reopening the session. We'll proceed to the Members' statements. Please take the floor of Mr Jack Kurzepa, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u384	Mr. Marshal! Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, For a few days there have been ceremonies throughout Poland related to cursed soldiers. A few years ago the day of March 1 was established the National Day of Remembrance for the Soldiers of the Cursed. So this year, under the loving protectorate of the President, with the constant cooperation of the Minister of Defence and military formations, there are ceremonies related to the enchanted soldiers. Dozens, hundreds of animators, volunteers carry in these days the high burning sails of love of their homeland and continue to remember the enchanted soldiers. They fought their unequal battles, faced with a hopeless situation, when from day to day, year to year, it became increasingly obvious that the only destiny was death, death experienced in battle, but also a methodical investigation every day, when incredibly brutality, cruelty and animalization were deprived of the cursed men of dignity, stripped of respect by fancy methods of rape, infliction of pain, liberation of fear. Today, when we take part in the running of the Wolf's trail, it is important for us to be able to see what a nightmare it was that had to go through in Rakowiecka, Montelupy, Lublin Castle or Bydgoszcz Fordon, young people at that time. Many of them 17-, 18-, 20-year-olds, at the beginning of their adult lives. They reached for weapons, entering the structures of the Freedom and Independence Association, the National Armed Forces, continued their fight in the AK ranks for free and independent Poland. Security was paned out - terror, fear, confidents were doing their jobs, arrests, denitions, spills. They went to prison as if they were inevitable. What happens in the soul of a 20-year-old young man who gets the death penalty, who sits on death row for a few months, when each key of the rattle is another goodbye to the world? What would be better? Then die in an investigation when they forced them to stand there, tearing apart the muscles of the anus, or crushing the genitals of the boots, boots, or ripping off the nails, or pushing splinters under them? Maybe if I had died then, I wouldn't have died every morning, so for months now... Some of them went out. Their abnormal world normalized, the scars on the body grew, but the soul constantly wept. You'd get up at night, scream, call your cellmates, and... you'd drink more and more. Sometimes a child, your child, from the door of his own room, listened to what you were saying, what you were talking about with those who found you - you mentioned it together. And then, despite what you've been through, what you've seen, you've taught them, you scumbag, the love of your country. You told me to believe in her, and when that moment came, to fight for her. Today, after many years, the Homeland opens its arms, takes you in zealously, re-finishes you, and even though its face brightens up the smile, tears are in its eyes, because many of you have lost forever, because too many have heard complaints of powerlessness expressed in lonely prison prayer. So... [[♪ The bell ♪]] both you and she, Poland, today is a challenge that never again enter the way of iniquity, villainy, so that the brother does not stand against his brother, that his brother never kills his brother again in his home. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u385	Thank you. Mrs Bożena Kamińska, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u386	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Once again, I would like to dedicate my statement to the lack of appropriate regulation which would determine the minimum distance of wind power plants from human habitats. In our country, renewable energy sources, including wind power plants, are increasingly promoted, leaving out the possibility of negative impacts. Local authorities are most in favour of building wind power plants on their land because of the financial benefits that enable them to make more of their own investments. The inevitability of the construction of wind power plants poses a challenge regarding their rational location. The Polish law to date does not specify what should be the right distance of the wind power plant from human habitats, and only the level of noise emitted is taken into account. This issue is one of the most disputed in the context of wind energy. In Western Europe, where wind energy has long been used, there are appropriate regulations that regulate the distance of wind power plants from human habitats. In France, for example, this distance from a single wind turbine is 1500 m, while in the Netherlands it is 2 000. m. There was also a strong resistance of the public to the construction of wind power plants. I come from Suwałszczyzna, where there are favorable areas and circumstances for these wind power plants to function, but society has shown great resistance to these power plants. People don't want to get near their homes of windmills generating noise, they don't want shadows thrown by windmill wings. The inevitability of the construction of wind power plants therefore poses a challenge regarding their rational location. Currently there are no definitions and terminology clarifications in the planning law, the Construction Law and the Real Estate Management Act. I believe that this issue needs to be addressed as soon as possible in order to introduce appropriate legislation that will bridge the gaps in the legislation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u387	Thank you. Mr Paweł Szramka, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u388	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Recently, freedom of speech and independent media have been much discussed in public space. There is often talk of media in the national dimension, while local media are pushed to the background. Freedom of speech is permanently broken. Recently we could hear about the situation of the editor of the weekly "CBR" by Mrs Celina Nałęcz. According to the report by the journalist, after she wrote articles that were unfavorable to the authorities, she was bullied and her editorial office was demolished by unknown perpetrators. There's an investigation going on, and we're hoping to get to the results quickly. This was happening in my family's Brodnica. I will admit that these events have moved not only the residents of the Brodnicki district, but also the whole of Poland. It turns out that anything is possible. Although we live in the 21st century, often intimidation and influence on journalists is on the agenda. There are many such situations throughout Poland. These situations perfectly show that politicians want the media in hand. In this way, society does not receive reliable information, but what power it wishes. Practically every step of the way, you can hear allegations that the media are too connected to the world of politics and business so that they can maintain their independence and objectivity. At this point I appeal to everyone: take a look at what is happening in your districts, and fight against breaking freedom of speech and the independence of the media. Let's react. That's what we're here for. Freedom of speech is one of the principles of democracy. We are obliged to defend freedom of speech and speak openly about the growing problem. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u389	Thank you very much. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u390	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to dedicate my statement to an extraordinary event, namely 40. The Jubilee Piast Run. On Saturday 27 February it will start in Szklarska Poręba in Jakuszycka Polen 40. The Piast Jubilee Run. It's a real cross-country ski festival. This extraordinary sports and recreation event will last 9 days, during which 15 gears will take place, including night runs. At the start of the 40th. The Piast Run will be 6,000. Skiers from all over the world. There will be races for professionals, but also shorter distances for beginners and of course for the youngest skiers - kindergarteners. The main point of the birthday celebration will be the 54 km classic style. This second year is included in the FIS series, the World Cup in ski marathons. Thanks to the high rank of this event, leading skiers from the Czech Republic, France, Italy, Germany and the USA will perform at the starting point of the Piast Mountains and, of course, Scandinavians. On this extraordinary occasion it is necessary to recall the unique qualities of the Jakuszycka Pole for cross-country skiing. It is in Szklarska Poręba Jakuszyce that the best conditions for cross-country skiing are best in Poland and even in the world. Climate conditions and terrain allow you to organize ski competitions at the highest level in the world. The winter season in Jakuszycka Poles starts from November and usually lasts until late spring. The snow cover is covered with a thick layer throughout the season. Ski-Tourist trails are 14 with a total length of approx. 100 km. Terrain causes a significant variation in the degree of difficulty of the different routes. The highest point on the routes is 1000 m above sea level, and the lowest point is 752 m. The Piast Pole Association Centre is the only cross-country skiing centre in Poland, which has the worldwide approval of FIS competitive routes. Thanks to such wonderful conditions, the cross-country skiing centre in Yakuszyce has been organizing a cross-country skiing festival for amateurs for 40 years. It is the oldest and largest ski event in Poland, in which several thousand people of different ages from Poland and from around the world participate. All participants of the Piast Pole are ambassadors promoting running, cross-country skiing and Poland around the world. I invite Members to participate in 40. Jubilee Piast Run - an unforgettable sport and recreation adventure. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u391	Thank you. Mr Tomasz Kostusz, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u392	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! We all want a permanent solution to the issue of car transport permits within the territory of the Russian Federation. We all want to bring about a situation in which transport between Poland and Russia will normally take place, the more that road transport is developing very dynamically, the more that there has been an increase in this sector by more than 400% over the last 10 years. It is worth recalling that road transport is today from 10% across the country up to 12% gross domestic product that we have today over 180 thousand. cars used in international transport, that Poland is currently an undisputed leader in Europe in international road transport, having already surpassed the Federal Republic of Germany. Dear Marshal, Only in the Opole Voivodeship, from which I come and which I represent, the smallest territorially and in the population, there are registered nearly 1000 transport companies employing more than 100,000. persons, companies carrying goods also from and within the territory of the Russian Federation. That is why this issue is so important both at international, national and local level. That is why, because I did not have the opportunity to ask questions in the point: Current information and at the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, I will allow myself to ask them publicly right now. How will the Ministry of Infrastructure monitor the implementation by the Russians of the proposed changes to the law to ensure implementation of the 19 February arrangements? In particular, I am asking about the issue of customs cargo insurance and the problem of the limited movement of goods from third countries. Is the Ministry planning to develop solutions in case the temporary agreement is not extended? What are the estimated losses of Polish carriers due to downtime? Is the Ministry planning to take action on the international stage to safeguard the interests of Polish carriers in the long term? Finally, how many permits would fully secure the demand of Polish carriers? Are there such calculations? Whether it's 200, 250 or 300,000. Permissions? I'll be expecting an answer in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u393	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Paul, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u394	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Volunteer firefighters have been one of the most important social organizations in Poland for over 150 years. Today's CSR units are perfectly organized, relatively well uniformed and equipped with specialized equipment. Many of them, through their participation in the national rescue and fire system, complement the forces of the State Fire Department. Volunteer firefighters' activities are not only the fight against fires, natural disasters and other local threats. It is also a widely understood social and cultural activity for local communities. Service at CSR is also an excellent form of training young people in the spirit of patriotism, developing physical fitness and acquiring teamwork skills. Unfortunately, despite the continuous development of infrastructure, equipment and combat equipment, the presidents of the Podkarpackie voluntary firefighters alarm that they are having more and more problems supplementing staff with new friends, especially youth formations. I therefore consider it appropriate to consider introducing solutions that will make service in the CSR series more attractive. Among the solutions proposed by firefighters is an increase in the number of trainings for members of TSOs directly involved in rescue and fire-fighting activities. The new training rules introduced last year entitle only officers of the State Fire Service to carry them out, excluding Petty Officers, thus reducing the number of such activities and reducing the number of participants and significantly extending the acquisition of the required powers. The following proposals are: to extend the paid equivalent for participation in rescue operations by time spent on traveling and returning from the scene and to settle the absence of work due to participation in the action within working hours, and not to provide a volunteer firefighter on leave, including those employed in institutions financed by the State budget. It is also worth considering reducing to 60 years the retirement age of the druhoms serving at CSR for a minimum of 25 years, assuming that the firefighter participated in an adequate number of rescue and fire-fighting operations in those years. High Izbo! This is part of proposals that do not significantly increase the spending on voluntary firefighters whose role and importance in the national security system is constantly increasing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u395	Thank you. Mr Czesław Sobierajski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u396	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The National Day of Remembrance of the Cursed Soldiers on 1 March was established by the Sejm by Act of 3 February 2011. The legislative initiative for the adoption of a new holiday, the National Day of Remembrance of the Cursed Soldiers, was taken by the president. Lech Kaczyński. The Presidential bill of 26 February 2010 entered the Polish Parliament on 1 March 2010. In the bill, the President wrote that this new holiday, the National Day of Remembrance of the Cursed Soldiers, is established in homage to the cursed soldiers - the heroes of the anti-communist underground, who in defence of the independent existence of the Polish state, fighting for the right to self-determination and the realization of the aspirations of democratic Polish society, with arms in their hands, and in other ways opposed the Soviet aggression and the force imposed on the communist regime. In the explanatory memorandum of the bill, the President wrote: this is a tribute to the soldiers of the second conspiracy for their testimony of valor, a steadfast patriotic attitude and attachment to patriotic traditions, for the blood shed in defence of their homeland. The National Day of Remembrance of Cursed Soldiers is also an expression of homage to numerous local communities whose patriotism and constant willingness of victims for independence ideas allowed the continuation of resistance for many years. So we owe our gratitude and memory to the steadfast soldiers who did not lay down their weapons, faithful to their soldiers' oath, which commanded them to fight until their homeland regained its full independence and sovereignty. They often paid the highest price - the victim of their lives. They died in battles, but how often they were tortured, murdered by the Homeland Security and buried in nameless graves. In staged court trials, they were sentenced to death or to a long prison. Many were deported to various Soviet camps, others were imprisoned in camps installed by Soviets and the communist regime in our country, also in Silesia, where I come from, which I represent. Many unbreakable soldiers who fought against the communist regime in Silesia were murdered in a Katowice prison on the street. Mikokovska. A few sentences about Bartek, king of the Podbeskid. One of the largest branches of the anti-communist underground in Poland after the end of World War II was the group of the National Armed Forces of Henry Flame, called the King of Podbeskidzie. Henryk Flame Bartek was an air force officer who participated in the September campaign. Since 1944 he has been associated with the National Movement. Its group operated in Podbeskidzie in the region of Bielska, Cieszyna and Żywiec and counted about 200 guerrillas in forest branches, assisted by a whole crowd of people providing them with food and information. A number of teams under the general command of Bartka were groups of people who were unworthy of the new reality. The activities of the group of Bartka were the beginning of the creation of the VII Silesian District of the National Armed Forces, which was operating in Katowice since May 1945. The area of operation of the group Bartka was a scrap of free Poland. The remaining reporting activities show the helplessness of local UB and MO institutions. The administrative authorities reported to their superiors on the disastrous situation of Communists in Podbeskidzie. This was confirmed by the events of May 3, 1946, when more than 100 armed and uniformed guerrillas under the command of the Flame captured the Vistula and organized the parade. As a result of the treason 150 soldiers were murdered, the remainder of the group appeared during the amnesty action in 1947. Henryk Flame was also among those exposed. Soon he divided the fate of his subordinates and was shot in Zabrzeg on 1 December 1947. The amnesty wasn't about heroes. Over the years, all traces of heroic soldiers of anti-communist underground have been sought. They were created as bandits and traitors, tried to disgust them in the eyes of society. Constant soldiers and their families were subjected to various repressions, prevented their normal functioning in society. However, their actions and legends proved to be more powerful than the whole machine of terror of the communist regime. Today we look with admiration and admiration at the history of soldiers who are steadfast, cursed, officers and soldiers from various military formations - Associations of Freedom and Independence, National Armed Forces, Conspiracy Polish Army and others fighting for the freedom of our homeland. Their sacrifice of life, effort and heroism did not go to waste. We live in a free country today. It's a great credit to the solid soldiers. May they be like the love of their homeland for us and for future generations. Hello to their memory. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u397	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u398	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My speech is also devoted to windmills, which only confirms the importance of this problem for many local communities. Recent years have been the time of expansion of many wind power companies in many parts of the country, including the Lublin Voivodeship. This expansion was often uncontrolled, accompanied by pathologies, as she talks about. Deziderate of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development of 10 December 2015 addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers. In localising these farms, public opinion was often ignored, the results of the public consultation were not taken into account. This was often done quietly, without publicity, and the residents were learning about everything too late in order to express their opposition. Recent years have also been an increase in the awareness of the inhabitants about the negative effects of windmills on human health, the deterioration of the comfort of their lives and work. This is due to the fact that a number of these investments are carried out at a very close distance, not exceeding several hundred meters, from buildings. The opinion of the inhabitants of these towns, where these powerful buildings with a wingspan of much more than 100 m have already been created, shows that the nuisance of living in their neighborhood is so great that people think first of all about where to move out, because there is no way to live. In addition, the prices of land, land and real estate in the area are significantly reduced. I have met with such opinions as a Member many times, even this week, in a meeting with residents in one of the municipalities of Lublin Voivodeship, where preparations for the start of this type of investment are on completion. The company has already applied for a building permit. Therefore, the only hope for those people who are determined to oppose the construction of windmills in close proximity to their homes is the announcement of a law on investments in wind power plants. This project, created by the law and justice community, including assumes that the distance between the wind power plant and residential buildings shall be equal to or greater than 10 times the total height of the wind power plant, i.e. the height measured from the ground level to the highest point of the building, including the technical elements, i.e. the blades of the wind power plant. This very important condition would avoid the construction of these devices, as has been the case so far, at grossly close proximity to houses. Ligated with the desperate voice of my constituents, including the inhabitants of the municipalities of Poniatov and Karczmisk, I call for the procedure to be followed as soon as possible. For many communities there is a struggle with time. Let's help them to win. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u399	Thank you. Mr Marcin Horała, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u400	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In my speech, I would like to draw the attention of the High House to the problems associated with the operation of the Gdynia Maritime Port. Gdynia port is one of three ports of key strategic importance for the state economy, next to the port in Gdansk and the Szczecin-Świnoujście port team, and over the past years it may have been a rare example of a well-functioning branch of the Polish maritime economy: an increasing number of transhipments, a good financial situation - either the port management or individual transhipment terminals - of thousands of jobs - either in the port itself or in cooperation companies. But unfortunately, this bright picture may soon be darkened. Before the port in Gdynia, there were barriers that inhibited its development, could inhibit it, and in some cases already inhibit it. In the long run, we can even talk about some regression. What are these barriers? Above all, these are barriers to access infrastructure, deficiencies in port access infrastructure from both the sea and the land side. From the sea side, it is a matter of too little depth of the port channel and too little turnover in the port, which makes the port no longer capable of handling the largest ships, and ships, such are trends in international shipping, have recently been increasing. It has already happened that some shipowners who either came to Gdynia or wanted to come to Gdynia without having the possibility, some or all of their transhipments moved to other ports. The project to deepen the port and increase the turnover, although already very late in relation to market needs, is in progress. Here we can hope that there will be no further delays, that it will be realized, but not only hope, because it also needs to be watched. The second issue is barriers, restrictions on land-side access infrastructure. These are restrictions on both road and rail infrastructure. In road infrastructure, this is a question of the lack of direct port connection to the national road system. This connection is the Kwiatkowski route, the urban road, and thus, with formal legal restrictions, for example on the maximum load capacity, the maximum pressure on the axle of cars that deliver goods to the port and export goods from the port, but also the deteriorating technical condition of the road. This is a significant part of the investment from the days of the games, which will soon require a general renovation, i.e. out of operation. In the meantime, another such one, when it is convenient to reach the port, is practically not available. With regard to railway infrastructure, this is the progressive clogging of the three-city railway hub. There are more and more cases where freight trains operating the port have to wait, traffic jams arise. At any moment, there may be a situation of a certain kind: such trains from the south of Poland will have to go through Koszalin and Słupsk, which is a very circular road. That is why I would like to thank my fellow Members from the Parliamentary Committee on Maritime Affairs, who, at the away meeting of this committee in Gdynia, which took place this week, unanimously agreed with my proposal to adopt a deziderate committee in which it points to these barriers and asks, above all, the Ministry of Infrastructure, to take action to remove them. The delays are enormous, especially in the road component. It is necessary to build the first so-called element. Opat, the Circuit of the North Tri-City agglomeration, which has been persistently deleted from the list of national roads for the last 8 years by the previous management of the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways. Create a link between the regional Tricity and ul. Janek Wiśniewski would allow the port to be directly connected to the system of national roads. The issue of railway infrastructure, i.e. the issue of regeneration, extension and construction of the second track and electrification of railway line 201, i.e. so-called. an old coal bus. Its construction in such a standard would allow it to be used in the Bydgoszcz - Gdynia section as an alternative way of transport of goods, perhaps also for passenger trains, to the Tri-City agglomeration, with which the entire agglomeration would benefit, and the most urgently, most directly - the port in Gdynia. The investment processes are already in place. I am pleased that this dissertation was immediately met on site with the very positive acceptance of representatives of the Ministry of Infrastructure; of course, this is also supported by the Ministry of Maritime Affairs. So that I strongly hope that these barriers ahead of the development of the port in Gdynia will soon be removed and that the concrete next steps will soon be implemented and Gdynia, but also the whole of Poland - because the port of strategic importance for the country's economy is working for the entire economy of the country - will be able to continue to enjoy the development of this port and its development. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Polish economy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u401	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Duda, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u402	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In 2015, the Council The RZGW provided some municipalities with flood and flood risk maps drawn up by the National Water Management Board. These maps concern mainly the south of Poland, the river Dunajec. According to the Act, the water law of the municipality was obliged to include flood areas in local land use plans within 30 months from the date of the transfer of the maps. Since the flood risk areas identified in the flood risk maps differ significantly from those identified in the study setting out the areas of direct flood risk developed by the RZGW director, both municipalities and private bodies submitted a number of comments to the National Water Management Board regarding the need to verify the accuracy of the boundaries of areas of particular flood risk. On 16 December 2015, the Sejm adopted an amendment to the Water Law Act. The most important change was the removal of the obligation to take account of flood risk maps when drawing up local land-use plans, spatial planning plans of voivodships, the concept of spatial development of the country and decisions on the conditions of construction and land-use. This obligation has been abolished, but according to the Law of 27 March 2003 on spatial planning and development, both spatial planning and local land-use plans must identify areas of particular risk of flooding. Therefore, despite the amendment to the Article. 88 Water rights areas of particular flood risk, including those identified in the current flood risk maps, must be included in the planning documents. There is therefore an inconsistency between the provisions of the Water Law and the Land Planning and Development Act. Regardless of the above, it draws attention to the fact that the coverage of flood flooding for the Dunajec catchment area as defined on flood risk maps developed by the President of the National Water Management Board is much larger than the range determined in the analysis of the RZGW in Krakow. The flood risk maps have been developed, as is apparent from the letters of the KZGW, based on the flows from the 1951-1993 period without taking into account the work of the Czorsztyn-Niedzica water reservoirs. Nevertheless, flood risk maps drawn up by the President of the KZGW and not detailed maps of the RZGW are mandatory when issuing release decisions. This is due to the fact that many of the investment activities in the Danube basin require decisions to be taken exempt from the water bans where accurate analyses do not qualify these areas for flood-related areas. The process of obtaining slow-down decisions is long and in this case is the same as for investments actually located in flood areas. In addition, the issuing of exemption decisions shall have effect on the basis of Article. 122 Water laws need to apply for another decision, this time for water law permission to build facilities and carry out works in flood areas, which are in fact not at risk of flooding. In this way, the construction process related to many investments in the region extends significantly at the approval stage of the documentation and its costs are increased. It is therefore necessary, as soon as possible, to adapt the provisions of the Spatial Planning and Development Act so that they are consistent with the amended provisions of the Article. 88 Water laws. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u403	Thank you. Mrs Józef Rzczurek-Żelazko, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u404	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On February 23rd, we celebrated the National Day for Combating Depression. According to World Health Organization data, depression is the fourth most serious disease in the world and one of the main causes of suicide. The purpose of the event is to disseminate knowledge about depression and other related disorders, to raise awareness of this disease and its symptoms, to diagnose and treat it. Depression is a long-term disorder of mood and emotion that manifests itself not only with sadness and depression, but also with lack of concentration, loss of interest, suicidal thoughts, low self-esteem, sleep disorders. The Holy Father John Paul II said that depression often leads to an existential and spiritual crisis, which expresses the loss of meaning in life and exposes the human, psychological and spiritual vulnerability that society causes in part. Clinical depression is a disorder that should not be underestimated. Specialized therapy is usually indicated. But often a good mood depends on ourselves. We have the opportunity to make ourselves feel better. Many people may simply complain of a worse mood that does not meet the criteria for identifying depression. Knowing what can be strengthened or supplemented in our lives significantly protects against depression. During preventive counseling, you can learn how to protect yourself from this disease in everyday life. It is worth remembering that every disease and disorder requires a proper diagnosis, and the correct diagnosis can only be made by the person who is well prepared for it. In case of mental problems, this is a psychiatric doctor. In addition to psychiatric assistance, psychological and psychotherapeutic assistance is worthwhile. Medical care, as well as psychological assistance, can help a person in depression faster and more efficiently return to mental balance. Participation in therapy and working on their mental problems are desirable for people suffering from recurrent disorders, because they allow them to consolidate positive thinking patterns and give the sufferer the opportunity to learn about their inner experiences and feelings. It is very important to disseminate health-promoting attitudes in the field of mental health and to increase public awareness of the possibility of early identification and prevention of depressive disorders, as well as to increase the availability of preventive methods by disseminating information on available medical benefits such as psychoeducation, psychological assistance, psychotherapy, psychiatric consultations, dietary and lifestyle guidance. In order to increase public awareness of depression and thus to emphasise the need to take preventive and intervention measures in this area, I am making this statement. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u405	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Kubów, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u406	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 3 February 2011, the Sejm passed the Act establishing the National Day of Remembrance of the Cursed Soldiers on 1 March 2011. Thanks to the initiative of many patriotic, veteran and decisive support of the President of the Republic of Poland Lech Kaczyński and the Institute of National Remembrance on 1 March, it became a special day - a day, which every year one under the common banner of different political and social environments. The Institute of National Remembrance informs that post-war independence conspiracy was the most numerous form of organized resistance of the Polish society against the imposed power until the establishment of In the year of the largest underground military activity, 1945, it was operating directly from 150 to 200 thousand. conspirators grouped in different branches. The Polish People's Republic brutally dealt with those who did not agree to communist action. For their sacrificial struggle for the independence of their homeland, they were punished with cruel punishment: many of them were killed with guns in their hands, others were tortured in prisons with endless interrogations and tortures. In 1944 and 1956, over 50,000 people died as a result of communist terror in Poland. persons who died under judicial judgments were murdered or died at the headquarters of the Military Security and Information Offices, prisons and camps, and died in combat or during pacification activities. A large part of the victims were soldiers of the underworld of independence. Their bodies were buried in secret and mostly unknown places until now. For many years, the communist authorities blew the memory of the heroic attitude of the cursed soldiers. For decades they have been called "spoiled dwarves of reaction," and the organizations to which they belonged were called "fascist." In recent years, many nameless graves have been found where Communist oppressors have hidden the bodies of murdered soldiers. The headquarters on the Link revealed the immensity of the atrocities faced by the Polish heroes of 1944 and 1956. President of IPN Janusz Kurtyka Thus he spoke of the reasons for his commitment to initiatives aimed at restoring memory of the enchanted soldiers: "Independence tradition we consider one of the most important elements of our country's identity. Moreover, the military act and anti-communist activity in the name of independence after the Second World War function in the social consciousness to a degree insufficient and often in a false way, which is the result of consistent policy of the Polish People's Republic. Communists did everything they could to disgust independent Polish soldiers and their fight. It is obvious that just as we cultivate the memory of the Polish Underground State, so we should also remember the actions of soldiers of the anti-communist conspiracy. It was a struggle for independence. The role of the President of the Republic of Poland, Lech Kaczyński, on the initiative of whom on 1 March became a day of soldiers cursed. In order to justify the bill, President Lech Kaczyński said: "The National Day of Remembrance of 'Soldiers of the Cursed' is to be an expression of tribute to the soldiers of the second conspiracy for their testimony of valor, a steadfast patriotic attitude and attachment to the tradition of independence, for the blood shed in defence of the homeland. President Lech Kaczyński also started a beautiful tradition of marking soldiers of the anti-communist underground. What is unique about soldiers cursed, that despite so many years of lying history, slandering, they could not be removed from the memory of several generations of Poles? What is unique about the soldiers cursed, that today they become a pearl in the crown of Polish patriotic tradition? The words of Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński come to mind: After God I loved Poland the most. The enchanted soldiers loved Poland with love beautiful, clean, uncompromising, ready to make the biggest sacrifice. They were beaten to death by communist oppressors, like Inka, in the last moments of their lives they knew that they had behaved properly. Today it is our duty to do everything to make their sacrifice, sacrifice and love of their homeland shine with a unique shine, providing a moral signpost for present and future generations. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u407	Thank you very much. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u408	Declaration on the 185th anniversary of the Battle of Olszynka Grochowska. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! February 25th this year We celebrate the 185th anniversary of the battle for Olszyna Grochowska. It was one of the most bloody battles of the November Uprising. The battle at Olszynka Grochowska was fought in the pre-fields of Warsaw's Prague. The concentration of Polish troops in the Olszynka grocery store under the village of Grochów, located near the capital, was to dissuade hostile troops from attacking Warsaw and stopping the momentum of attack. The forces of the insurgent troops were exhausted after many fights, such as. Under the Stokes, the Good and the Wawr. The march to Warsaw of the field marshal Ivan Dybicza was to thwart the Russians much less numerous Polish army. The first occasional attacks on insurgent troops took place on 20 February. However, they were effectively resisted, which gave Poles hope of victory and faith in their strength. The decisive attack of the Russians took place only a few days after the order of the frontal attack on Polish forces grouped in the forest of Olszynka was given. The operation began with an artillery fire on Polish positions. The Russians used the infantry for the proper attack. The first attack of the enemy was resisted. However, the vast majority of the Tsar army was exploited by their commander. Yet another attempt to break the Polish resistance line also failed. The fierce and uneven fight lasted for the next few hours. Further assaults of the overwhelming forces of the infantry and the charge of the larger cavalry did not lead to a break in the spirit of the fighting of Poles, although the forces of the insurgents were systematically exhausted. The situation changed from minute to minute, dramatically increasing the balance of the dead in the skirmish. The critical moment of the battle was the decision of Dybich to send his squadrons at the same time attacking the right and left wing of the insurgent troops. The Poles, forming quadrilaterals, resisted the dangerous charges of the Russians. The extraordinary persistence of the Polish defense and high losses of the enemy caused the Tsarist troops to turn around and abandon the attack of the fortifications of Prague, for which the insurgents withdrew. According to historians, the outcome of the battle for Olszynka Grochowska remains unresolved, but here we can talk about the triumph of Poles. The Poles' defeat in this fight could lead to the slaughter of Warsaw's inhabitants similar to that of the Kościuszko insurrection period. Heroism and fierce resistance of Poles did not allow the enemy to enter the capital. About 7 thousand people died on the Polish side during the battle. soldiers, among the enemy, the number of killed has reached about 12 thousand. persons. General Franciszek Żymirski was killed in the fight, and the actual commander-in-chief - General Józef Chłopicki - was seriously injured. The soldiers of the 4th century proved to be a special fortitude. The Line Infantry regiment. This battle was an inspiration for Stanisław Wyspiański to write a drama entitled "Warsawianka." In 1916 a wooden cross stood in the place of the battle - a monument to the battle of Olszynka Grochowska, 15 years later the cross was replaced with metal. Today, reconstructions of the fighting of insurgents are organized to commemorate the next anniversaries of the battle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-25-sejm-12-2.u409	I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. On 26 February 2016, at the latest by the end of the month following the date of entry into force of the Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 21 min 23]]
