ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u1	I open the eighteenth session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I appoint Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski and Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk to be the secretaries of the sitting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski. I inform that the Sejm at its 18th meeting on 13 May 2016 adopted most of the Senate's amendments to the Act amending the Act on the Polish Charter and some other laws, as well as to the Act amending the Act on public roads and the Act on toll motorways and on the National Road Fund. At the same meeting on 13 May 2016, the Sejm adopted all the amendments of the Senate to the Act on the Prevention of Sexual Crime Risks and the Act on the Establishment of the Academy. Jakub from Paradyz in Gorzów Wielkopolski. In the absence of any objections to the minutes of the 14th meeting, I declare that the minutes of this meeting have been adopted. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose that item 6 be deleted from the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the law on the recognition of invalid judgments handed down against persons being repressed for the sake of the independent existence of the Polish State, and at the same time examining it at the next Senate meeting on 8 and 9 June 2016. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. There's no objection. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. In addition, I propose to supplement the agenda with points: the Act amending the Act and consider it as item six of the agenda; the Act amending the Act on Export Insurance Guaranteed by the State Treasury and certain other laws and consider it as item seven of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. There you go. [[Wait a minute, Mr. Marshal, I'm about to turn on...]] There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to object to the tax ruling, because during the committee's deliberations there was no opinion of the Legislative Bureau, which explained that it did not have enough time for such an opinion...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u3	Senator, as far as I know, because I spoke to the director, the information was, but not written, and I wanted to inform you further that this information will be submitted in writing. Do you hold your objection? [[Sustained.]] Sustained. Well, then... But I understand that this concerns... Which point is the opposition, please specify. Tax bill, right? [[Yes.]] So there's the vote of objection. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among your senators is in favour of proposing to include this law on the agenda? Who's in favor? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. There were 70 senators voted, 51 against, 19 against. [[Voting No 1]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the proposal I have tabled has been accepted. And now I would like to inform the senators once again that the opinion on the Law amending the Act was presented orally at the committee meeting and that the written opinion will be delivered to you immediately after it has been drawn up, even before this point has been examined in plenary. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? I don't see any volunteers. I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the eighteenth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senate, I would like to inform you that after the committee's report on the revision of the Senate's Rules of Procedure, the Senate's 123rd agenda will be supplemented by a second reading of this draft resolution. In addition, if the Sejm adopts a law amending the physiotherapist's profession and prepares a report by the Senate's committee, the agenda of the Senate will be supplemented by a review of that law. I also inform you senators that the current Senate meeting has been extended until 20 May, i.e. I'll see you Friday. We proceed with the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on registration and protection of the names and designations of agricultural products and foodstuffs and on traditional products and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 163 and the report of the Commission In print No 163 A. I would ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Józef Łyczak, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Invited guests! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development a report by the committee on the work on amending the Act on the Registration and Protection of the Names and Designations of Agricultural Products and Foods and on traditional products and on certain other laws. High Izbo, Poland has exceptional conditions to highlight the traditions of food production and regionalism of food production. In our lands, despite significant post-war migrations, we can recreate our food and culinary traditions. It's a huge national wealth. It should also be noted that solutions improving the registration process will increase the offer of local products, which are a tourist attraction. As regards the law, it concerns the implementation in the Polish legal order of changes resulting from the entry into force of Regulation No 1151/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council on quality schemes for agricultural and food products and the improvement of the functioning of the system of geographical indications for agricultural and food products, as well as the clarification of the provisions of the current law. In accordance with that Regulation, amendments to the application procedure for registration of protected names, protected geographical indications and traditional specialities guaranteed have been taken into account. The time limits for examining applications for registration have been reduced. In addition, a catalogue of tools has been completed to supervise the activities of control bodies which control the conformity of the production process with the registered specifications of protected names. The duties of the chief inspector of the commercial quality of agri-food products and the principles of cooperation of inspections with the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection have been clarified. This will make the system of official controls more effective and thus protecting names on the market. The Act proposes to require the Chief Inspector to publish on the website of the inspection a list of producers holding a valid quality certificate confirming the conformity of the production process of the agricultural product or foodstuff with the specification or a valid certificate of conformity. This is to ensure transparency of the system and facilitate communication between producers and consumers. The law, which is very important, also proposes replacing criminal rules on liability for incorrect use of names registered by administrative fines. High Izbo, during the committee meeting, during the discussion, Senator Wiesław Kilian tabled five amendments proposed by the Legislative Bureau. Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski also tabled one amendment to the bill. As a result of the vote, the committee adopted the 3 amendments by Senator Wiesław Kilian and the 1st amendment by Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski. A representative of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development gave a positive opinion on the amendments adopted. Amendment 1, tabled by Senator Wiesław Kilian, eliminates from the provision the words stressing the need to submit an application in one copy. Such an emphasis is unnecessary and may give rise to doubts as to how many documents must be submitted in cases where the legislator does not order this to be done in one copy. Amendment 2, Senator Wiesław Kilian, improves the reference. Art. Article 42a (1) (a) (ii) and (iii) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 5 requires the Chief Inspector to publish the list of producers referred to in paragraph. 1. The provision of the paragraph. 1 concerns a producer register kept by an authorised certification body. The aim of the legislator was to require the chief inspector to publish a list of producers which he is conducting pursuant to paragraph. 4. Therefore, an amendment had to be made. Amendment 3, Senator Wiesław Kilian, amends Article. Article 58b (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) At present, the rules are plural, preventing the imposition of a penalty in the event of a single infringement. In addition, the rules use defective grammatical forms of words. The amendment corrects this failure. Amendment 4, Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 58b (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) There is no provision in the Act that would introduce a similar mechanism in case of re-use of a name registered as a protected designation of origin, a protected geographical indication or a traditional speciality guaranteed for an agricultural product or a foodstuff which does not comply with the specification. Amendment 4 was introduced to complete this deficiency. Dear Senators, the committee unanimously adopted the entire bill of amendments and I would also ask the High House for this on behalf of the committee. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u5	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Senator Stanisławek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for the Senator of the rapporteur. At the committee's meeting, was there a question of harmonising the name of the products so-called. Natural? Will it be a bio, a natural product, or some other name? Is there a codification, systematisation of the name of organic products? Is it going to be "eko", "bio", "natural"? Was there a speech about it?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u7	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u8	My answer is that, as I recall, the committee wasn't going into the details. So that I don't recall it being mentioned at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u9	Senator Major. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u10	Mr Marshal, Senator rapporteur, because this change increases the safety of the marketing of products in trade and production, I have this question: were there any opinions from non-governmental organisations representing the consumer or producer environments at the committee meeting? Were these opinions presented at the committee meeting at all, or did the organizations have a position on the changes to this law?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u11	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u12	There was nothing like that. I think the government representative will answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u13	Thank you. There are no more questions. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would your Undersecretary of State, Ewa Lech, like to speak on this bill? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ewa Lech: There is no need.]] Yes? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ewa Lech: There is no need. Thank you.]] Good. You don't want to... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ewa Lech: There is no need.]] ...to speak. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Do you senators want to ask such questions? Senator Major. There you go. Minister, I'd like to invite you here to the podium. You're welcome, Senator Major.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u14	Mr Marshal, Minister, I will repeat my question to the senator of the rapporteur. Were there any opinions of consumer or producer organisations on the drafting of these changes? Were they even in position? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u15	As far as I know, at the committee meeting, the Regional Product Chamber was very positive about this project, so from this point of view everyone responded positively to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u16	I'd like to repeat the question... Does the senator want to repeat it? Good. Senator Stanisławek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u17	Mr. Marshal, Madam Minister, I have such a question, such a matter. Because there's a lot of confusion on the market about product labelling It is hard for me to say now, which is an organic product, whether it is a bio product, whether it is a green leaf product, whether it is a natural product, I think it is necessary to harmonise the form of consumer information about what product it is, i.e. what standards it corresponds to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u18	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u19	Senator, the subject of these changes is a completely different law, and the question of the bio products you are talking about is more about organic products, and this is about a completely different regulation, although the idea may be a good one. However, the subject of discussion and voting is a completely different law, it does not cover bio products or natural products.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u20	I have a question for you. And doesn't the Minister think it should be? Does the Ministry intend to harmonise these names? I ask because, in fact, the consumer, meeting with different names, does not know if it is the same as what these products differ from. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u21	It seems to me that the idea is not necessarily justified, because in respect of the products we are talking about, covered by the law we are amending, we are talking about a protected designation of origin, protected geographical indications, and bio products can be produced in any region of Poland and do not have to come from one place, they do not have to be traditionally associated with the area. Here it is more broadly, bio products, natural products we can produce in different places, and here we have specific origins of products, so these are completely different areas.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u22	Yes. My question was whether or not the ministry felt it was necessary to standardise it. If he thinks so, he may propose to amend the law. I'm not talking about this bill, because this bill is really about something else.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u23	In my view, it is not necessary to do so, because these rules on protected designations of origin and geographical indications are based on EU rules, they are harmonised across the Union equally. These are not just our regulations, they are EU-wide, consumers from all over the Union will know that these products are protected by such and not by another sign.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u24	Senator Stanisławek. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u25	Excuse me, Minister, but this is a revision of the Act on registration and protection of the names and designations of agricultural products and foodstuffs. It does not matter where the product was produced, only what it contains, and it is not always necessary to justify in a sense the EU directive, because we also have the right to label products, so that the Polish consumer knows perfectly well that the natural product is not a bio product, it is not the same as a bio product. Or is it? Therefore, I believe that this law could harmonise the designation of bio, natural, organic products. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u26	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u27	Mr. Senator, it's rather important where the product is produced, because it's about origin, it's about geographical indication. It's essential and we can't confuse it here. Bio and natural products, as I understand it, can be produced all over Poland, and this is about the designation of origin, where the products come from. Unfortunately, these aren't the same things.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u28	Senator Grabowski is asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u29	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have a pretty specific question. I'm talking about art. Article 58b (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) I'm talking about the amount of punishment. There is a record that such a person or entity is subject to a monetary penalty of up to 200% of the property benefit obtained, i.e. an understandable asset benefit which can be obtained for an agricultural product or a foodstuff placed on the market. The second part of this rule does not fully understand. Who will be involved in estimating what these potential benefits may be? The benefits are the benefits that are actually obtained, but the estimation... Why such a construction of this recording? Punishment of 200% of the benefits is quite logical, but judging how much you can benefit from it seems to me... Who's gonna do this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u30	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u31	I think it's gonna be a control unit that's gonna be doing this. Even estimation is a kind of punishment... At the tax offices, inspectors shall have the right to estimate the amount subsequently reported approximately. For less, it's a kind of punishment. On the basis of the volume of production, it is possible to assess the undue advantages that this entity has obtained or was able to obtain.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u32	Senator Grabowski again.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u33	I don't quite understand. If an entity has suffered damage due to unauthorised use of the product, a specific injury, for example. another entity used it and had some income on it, that's actually... However, it is not entirely logical for me to estimate how much someone might have obtained as a result of the unauthorised use of this product. What does this record say? Was it in the draft bill brought forward, I understand, by the government?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u34	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u35	Mr. Senator, it's really very difficult for me to answer what my intentions were when I was told about estimation. I think I'm convinced internally as a person once controlled by the IRS... It was also said at that time that the amount of any penalty is estimated. I will try to answer in writing what is behind this formulation. Then we'll answer in writing. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u36	Thank you, Minister. There are no more questions... No, you're still Senator Florek. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u37	Mr Marshal, the Minister, as mentioned just now, gives the Act wide powers of the Trade Quality Inspection of Agricultural and Food Articles in terms of production control, criteria control, certification, penalties. That's what we were just talking about. As far as I know, these inspections are not very well developed in different voivodships. Are you planning to strengthen the field inspections in connection with these additional tasks that will be imposed on them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u38	Thank you, Senator. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u39	Mr. Senator, as you know, in the Law and Justice Programme is the question of consolidating all these services, inspection. Strengthening actions will be possible when these inspections are combined, staff shifts will be made and some inspections will be expanded at district level. This is at the stage of preparation right now. I think we can do this. In fact, these are not additional tasks, because these tasks were performed. Now it's just been clarified, defined on what basis and how it's supposed to look. This amendment of the Act also makes concrete the way in which these certification bodies are controlled. He just sort it out, doesn't do any extra work.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u40	Minister, what inspections will be combined? Or is it just the ones that are under the Minister of Agriculture, or is it something else?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u41	The plan is to combine several inspections under the responsibility of the Minister of Agriculture: Veterinary Inspection, State Inspection of Plant Protection and Seed Protection, Commercial Quality Inspection of Agricultural and Food Articles and... It is also a part of the competence of health inspection, which is supervised by the Minister of Health. The supervision of food production will be in one place.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u42	Thank you very much. There are no more questions. Thank you, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ewa Lech: Thank you.]] Anyone sign up for a vote? [[Voice from the room: No one signed up.]] I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to provide a written answer to a question asked by Senator Grabowski. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the second agenda: amendment of the law on the financing of the common agricultural policy. The text of the Act is contained in print No 158 and the report of the Commission In print No 158 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Wiesław Kilian, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u43	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! I would like to present on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development an opinion on the Act amending the law on the financing of the common agricultural policy. This law was passed by the Sejm at its 17th meeting on 29 April. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development gave its opinion on 10 May. The contested law gives local government units the opportunity to receive funding for pre-financing activities related to development, modernisation and adaptation of agriculture and forestry covered by the Rural Development Programme. This is an example: the integration of land is the task of the municipality and it is a rather costly task. The municipality can obtain pre-financing for this task and only after the performance of the task is settled with the funds received. The Act makes it possible to manage these funds more efficiently. On behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, I request that this law be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u44	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u45	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo, Mr. Senator, I have one technical question, although important from the point of view of the right mechanism, which is to be introduced by the procedated law. In my legal opinion, I read: "The Act introduces the possibility of re-establishing the deadline for submitting an application for an advance in investment activities and an application for pre-financing of aid in operation: Creation of producer groups and producer organisations, within the framework of the 2014-2020 RDPs. This, of course, is as desirable as possible, because we must be aware that funding under the Rural Development Programme is not as generous as it is under the European Regional Development Fund. and expected by both producer groups and farmers or public bodies, as well as local government units. I have no doubt about this solution. It is also, I think, a consequence of Poland's many years of experience in implementing programmes, regional and national, financed either from the European Regional Development Fund or from the European Social Fund. However, it awakens at least my consideration that the farmer will be able to receive an advance before the conclusion of the grant agreement. So I have a question: on what basis is the farmer... Which farmers will be able to receive an advance? Any farmer who has submitted an application, or just those farmers we already know their projects have been positively assessed, but there is still a formal procedure for concluding contracts? Because if it's not what I'm trying to say, then we're going to have a serious problem with how to possibly recover the funds that the farmer used before the contract was concluded, if it turns out that the project he made, for example. does not sufficiently meet the formal criteria, i.e. does not go to substantive assessments, or meets the formal criteria, passes, but the substantive assessment is too low for an agreement to be signed in connection with such a proposal. I think that's a fundamental question. Nevertheless, as to the idea, the essence of the bill is very desirable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u46	You asked Senator Slugocki a question. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u47	There was no mention of this at the committee meeting. But this law concerns the financing of local governments and local authorities. As far as individual farmers are concerned, I believe that, on the basis of a decision issued by the Director of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture, such a grant may be granted and then settled after conclusion of the contract and settlement.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u48	Thank you. Senator Slugocki, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u49	Thank you, Senator. If that were a fact, that answer would be absolutely satisfactory. But in my view, it does not matter whether the entity is an entity of the local government, whether it is a public entity or a private individual farmer. Because on what basis do you give an advance to the local government unit if we do not know whether this project meets the right requirements or not and whether it will receive enough points or not? So this is a dilemma. But, Senator, if you'll excuse me, I'll ask you again. 'Cause this question is very specific. - Minister. - Mm-hmm. The Minister now has time to prepare for the answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u50	Thank you, Senator. There are no more questions. Thank you, Senator rapporteur. [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would your Undersecretary of State, Ewa Lech, like to speak on the bill under consideration? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u51	Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry to say he's not in my jurisdiction... From the information I have, it appears that the advance is granted... paid after the grant of the aid. But when it comes to clarifying the answer to questions and doubts, I will answer in writing because I would not want to make a mistake, because these are very important matters. Once again, the advance is paid after the aid has been granted.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u52	Thank you very much. Are there any more... Excuse me, Minister, just a moment, because there may be questions for you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Are there any such questions? Senator Slugocki, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u53	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, Minister, if necessary, I would be happy to repeat the question. I don't know if there's a need... Is it? I'll say it again. Minister, I have such a fundamental question. The innovation that the Minister of Agriculture would like to introduce would not only be extremely interesting but also extremely worrying. We would be dealing with such an example that without knowing... Although it would not be known whether the project complies with certain formal, substantive requirements, the farmer who submitted the project could receive the funds in the form of an advance. And my question is this... I would like the Minister to be so kind as to answer what it looks like in the time unit. When is the formal, substantive evaluation? When's the signing of the contract, making an application for an advance? When it is possible to submit another application for an advance, i.e. whether I have to settle. of 75% the first advance and then can I apply for another advance? How will this path of contract and transfer of funds look like? That's my question. However, I must say that, in relation to the state that has so far been in force with regard to the Rural Development Programme, the European Agricultural Fund, this change is extremely desirable. The first change occurred during the negotiations conducted by Poland on a new perspective 2014.2020, when the level of funding for individual farmers in Poland was increased and many flexible solutions were introduced. This is another solution which I think fits into the expectations of Polish farmers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u54	Thank you. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ewa Lech: If I may...]] There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u55	Mr. Senator, we've been writing down the questions carefully and we're going to answer them in writing because I don't want to make a mistake, and that's not the area where I move well. I'm sure you'll get a written answer from the senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u56	Minister, I have a question. What is the case with area subsidies? We discussed this about a month ago. Is the implementation of these subsidies, which must be implemented by June and 10% I guess it wasn't realized... Would you mind telling me what it looks like right now? [[You're not a specialist.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u57	Mr. Marshal, we will also answer this question in writing. This isn't my competence. I'm here to replace...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u58	Okay, thank you very much. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ewa Lech: Thank you.]] There's no more... Oh, I'm sorry, Senator Grabowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u59	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a quick question. I didn't want to say that, to question the Senator rapporteur here, but the example the Senator rapporteur gave. It's about integrating agricultural land... Is the Minister able to tell me? Here, from the pulpit, or possibly in writing How much money is spent on the integration of the land by the counties and cities on the rights of the county, because they are beneficiaries? [[Microphone buzzing]] I think it's a wiretap... [[Turn off your cell phone, please. Who's got a cell phone?]] That's my phone right there. [[Joy in the Chamber]] I'm sorry. And the second question is: how much is the interest of district governments or cities on the rights of the county with this action? If the Minister is able to answer now, please, and if not, I ask for a written reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u60	Thank you very much. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u61	I'm committed to answering in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u62	Thank you, Minister. And Mr. Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u63	Minister, the advance is also intended to include the integration of land from money allocated to local governments. I would like to know whether such consolidations have been carried out in the framework of the 20072013 RDP? If they were, how many were there? Well, in light of the fact that the advance... [[This is not the subject of this bill.]] I remember that in my voivodship there was only one attempt to merge and I do not even know if it was successful. I understand that you will also answer this question in writing, because this is a rather detailed question, and I am aware that the Minister may not be able to answer it now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u64	Thank you. Yes, Minister?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u65	In writing, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u66	In writing. I'm gonna ask the question a little less specific. Maybe the Minister can tell me. The law on earth trading has recently entered into force. Did the Ministry notice any impact of this law on the price of agricultural land, either negative or positive? [[In writing, too.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u67	I think it's too early to tell you how this bill affected the price of the land. It was originally decreed that the prices of land would fall, and now there is information that prices have increased. I think it's too early to assess the situation.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u68	Thank you very much. There are no more questions. Thank you, Minister. I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to provide a written answer to the questions asked by senators Sługocki, Borusewicz, Grabowski and Flork. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Horse Races. The text of the Act is contained in print 159 and the committee report In print No 159 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Przemysław Błaszczyk, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u69	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! At its meeting on 10 May 2016, the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development discussed the horse racing law. The aim of the Act is to regulate the functioning of the Council of the Polish Horse Racing Club, as well as to appoint and dismiss the President of the Polish Horse Racing Club. The main objective of the changes is to reduce the Council to 9 members. She's had 25 members so far. Recently this led to some chaos, problems with the proper functioning of the Polish Horse Race Club. We select 9 members for this board, including 6 members from organisations bringing together owners and breeders and organizers, 2 members from organisations bringing together riders and trainers, and 1 person is a representative of the Ministry. The President shall be appointed, after consulting the Council, by the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development. The bill is strictly technical. It shall lay down the rules for the functioning of the Board, the tasks of the President and the term of office of the Board, which shall be laid down for a period of four years. The Commission accepted 3 amendments. The first amendment concerns the voting system with regard to the appeal of the President and the appeal of the President. And in this case, there is a record that increases the number of present members of the board to 7, but remains a simple majority, just a vote with 7 members of the board. In the remaining votes, it is five members of the board, which is a minimum number, and a simple majority. The second amendment concerns the clearance of delegations. There was a record about 1/3 and the committee assumed that the delegation would be fully cleared. The members of the council are socially active, and... I don't think it's gonna be a problem if there's a refund on these commute costs. The third amendment concerns the possibility for the President to work, to take up work by the President outside the office as President of the Council, with the agreement of the Minister, of course. It's mostly connected... Our main point was that if the President wanted to be a scientist, he would have the opportunity to do additional activities, the possibility of doing so. The Legislative Office has not tabled any proposals for amendments. The Commission did not have much discussion on this law. The Commission proposes that this law be adopted together with the 3 amendments notified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u70	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Senator Slugocki first.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! I have a question about the board composition. You said, Mr. Senator, that the council is to be composed of nine members, six of which are representatives of owners and breeders. But tell me, will it be literally, according to the wording of this law, the representatives of the owners and breeders representing the studs concerned, or the people concentrated in non-governmental organisations? Let's say it's one option or the other. However, I ask further: which entities will they be? Who's gonna point them out? Why this subject, not another subject? What are the criteria for this? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u72	Thank you very much. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u73	In the record we have actually included organizations that bring together breeders of race races. And so far it has worked on such a principle that the organizations that brought these breeders together We have several of them just presented their proposals to the board and these notifications were accepted. At this stage, we have indicated in this description that it will look... I have not yet mentioned that breeders who have had 5 horses for at least five years can also come forward. And about the board membership. As far as I know, maybe the Minister will lead me out of my mistake. The Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development will decide.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u74	Mr. Senator... [[May I ask, Mr. Marshal?]] Ask around? Please, just ask.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u75	I'll ask. Mr. Senator, if you don't mind... So you don't know, you don't know if the Minister will be building any criteria that will make it easier for him to... make this decision actually based on substance, not e.g. Others? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u76	I don't have that information because we didn't discuss it that widely at the committee meeting. I've already tried to present mine here, you might say, a position: if someone meets the conditions, is in a relationship, runs a breeding, that's what I think is a person prepared. And the relationship also, I think, designates a person from among themselves who is really prepared to perform this function.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u77	Thank you. Senator Augustine. There you go. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator Augustine!
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u78	Now, Mr. Marshal. Excuse me. Firstly, it is customary, and perhaps also the responsibility of the rapporteur, that the other senators who do not attend committee meetings should clearly answer the question of what the purpose of the bill is. And the senator only said that this is a technical act. What's the point? Was the council not fulfilling its responsibilities before, or were there any difficulties in its operation? What is the reason why this council is interrupted and proposed new solutions? Second question. Since 25 people took part in the work of the previous council and, as I understand it, it was a group of those entities that the senator said in the report, say, who do you want me to say to eliminate from this board? Because, to this day, 25 places were needed for stakeholders to sit and speak on this board, and now it is limited by 2/3, which means that someone needs to be eliminated. What kind of entities aren't supposed to be there?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u79	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u80	Mr. Senator, I said in the beginning that there were problems with the functioning of the council in connection with such a... Well, maybe not with a number, but with decisions that were made there. Because the CEOs have changed. There's also a technical problem, because in the records of the previous bill, as I recall... There were situations where the relationship didn't exist, and he had his representative, and there was a problem with what to do with him. Is there any way to cancel it, or... Because you couldn't appeal to a relationship. Because he didn't exist. To really remove this representative from the council. The union, as I say, wasn't formally there. It was also that some relationships had several representatives on the council. Therefore, I think that limiting this number to 9 is not intended to limit the possibility of participation of breeders or unions in any way, but to improve the functioning of the council. As far as I know, there are so many relationships. - I don't know really big relationships that matter and that function There isn't. It is not enough that these relationships cannot have their representative, i.e. So that every relationship can't have a representative on the council. But I would like to stress here that this was not discussed at the committee meeting, and I am merely trying to answer this courteously to the senator here.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u81	Mr. Senator Augustine... But that's gonna be a question, not a motion?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u82	It's hard here, Mr. Marshal, to be satisfied. I'm asking what the problems were, and the senator says there were problems. But I'm still asking, what?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u83	I said, with the functioning of the... [[I'm not asking with what, I'm asking: what?]] Mr. Marshal and Mr. Senator, I said there were problems because that's all I know. At the committee meeting, we did not discuss what the problems were. [[I see.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u84	Thank you. Senator Ambrosik. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u85	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question. The explanatory memorandum states that the novel abolishes the term of office of the President. What were the indications? Did you discuss this at the committee meeting?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u86	And that the novel endures the President's term of office... There was no discussion about it. We didn't talk about the president, the functioning and the cadence. [[Thank you. I'll ask that question to the Ministry's representative. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u87	Thank you, Senator. Now, Senator Blackbay. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u88	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator rapporteur, could you please be polite about the question of problems, because... here's what I'm going to say: there's been a clash of media information, a major outrage to the environment in connection with the implementation of this bill... I'd like to know what the problems were. If you can ask the senator for an answer, and if it's a secret, it's hard. I'm gonna give you a Didn't the members have that kind of opinion or... What kind of problems were these? I'm not talking about what kind they were, exactly. I'm talking about what kind. That's one thing. Secondly, as long as we shorten the term of the previous council, because I believe... I don't know, Mr. Senator... [[The term of office lasts four years.]] I'm talking about shortening the existing... How much do we shorten it? According to your senator, isn't it worth preserving the sacred law of cadency? Please tell me: if you have problems with this advice, in six months you will also apply for a change, because there will be problems? Is it like you're gonna call people like that, that the council is gonna be okay now? I would like the senator to address the issues of cadence, the question of shortening the term of office of this council, even if there was no such discussion at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u89	That wasn't a discussion. We know that horses have been very emotional lately, but I think the Minister and the Ministry are doing everything they can to make it normal, and it's working, so that future developments in breeding... This is also one of the elements in ordering certain matters. As far as I can remember. I'm not sure; I'm just talking about what I know all the time. It appears that next year, if I'm not mistaken, the term of office of the council ends. As I said at the outset, there was a problem with the functioning of the Council, with the appointment of the President, with the decision-making of the Council, so the Ministry decided to settle all this. It's racing season. We know this must all work well. The Sports Totalizator supports racing and it is not small money, therefore everything must be regulated. We can't all, because I don't mean that just us, but that all senators and Members, as well as those responsible To allow disorder and chaos to prevail, since we are primarily financing it. It also has a breeding purpose. That is why everything must work, and the Minister, the Ministry on our behalf, must take care of it because they are responsible for it. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u90	Thank you very much. Senator Rotnick's next question will be asked. Later, Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u91	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I'm listening to this discussion, and I don't know why we're actually doing this bill. It would suffice to say that the Minister of Agriculture is not satisfied with the current composition of the Council and with the current President and that he will appoint someone he considers appropriate because we know neither the criteria nor the reason. I therefore believe that this discussion is almost unfounded. Because does the bill say what the criteria for choosing a council will be? Does the bill say what will be the criteria for the election of the President? Or will it simply be the discretion of our executive authority, the Minister? What can you say about that? Because we're... Me, for example. I'm totally not aware of the fact that there's a horse racing club. I didn't even know it had to be an act of law. Thank you. [[In fact, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u92	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u93	Actually, Senator, that's your opinion. The details and concerns you expressed in your question were not discussed at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u94	Thank you very much. Another one is Senator Florek and then Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u95	Mr Marshal, Senator rapporteur, actually I almost heard the answer to my question. You said your term ends next year because it was also... [[Most likely, please, I've already told you...]] Oh, probably. Yeah, I think that might be more specific. As a committee, you are discussing an important subject, and you should know when your term of office ends. [[There was no discussion about it.]] That's why the question is why... 'Cause if it's next year, why can't it be? It was this year to wait, it wasn't too much time left. Of course, the change that it is the Minister who appoints and dismisses the President is already a fundamental change. So here I see that it is a certain crawling takeover wherever it is possible to have a full effect on the appointment of the president, on the council. And I can see that this is definitely the direction you're taking and that you're going this way. Therefore, my question is fundamental: could these changes which will be made not be 'Cause it's a parliamentary project. Better agreed and, so to speak, somehow better justified? Couldn't you wait a few months and then make a change? I see that you are making these changes so quickly, ad hoc, and that is why the question arises as to whether it could not actually wait until the end of your term of office and whether it is appropriate to make this change today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u96	Mr. Senator, we haven't discussed this, but I think we have an assignment. Everyone, also the Minister, and we cannot wait for the next years, because then you would accuse us and the government, the very coalition of government, that we are not ordering such matters. As I said before, these are state resources, that is responsibility, and I think someone has to bear that responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u97	Thank you very much. Senator Zdrojewska and then Senator Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u98	I'll ask quickly, Mr. Senator, two questions. First question. I will return to the question of the purpose of the proposed amendments, because you said there were problems there. Please tell me exactly what problems it was with previously functioning advice. Tell me about them. Since you are a representative of law and justice and you also represent some of the applicants, I hope you are aware of this. And see what's going on with this term. Of course, we'll ask the Ministry, but it seems that if you represent the party that submitted the project... [[At this point, I represent the committee, Senator.]] I understand, but we would like your representatives to get answers to our questions. So that I would very much ask for an answer to what these problems have been, since they lasted and what they were. And the other thing. I would like to ask you if you invited representatives of the relevant environments to the committee meeting. For a long time in the media there has been a storm on this subject and all the environments associated with horse racing that they have in Poland, Ladies and gentlemen, a 175-year tradition And somehow, over the years, there's been some kind of consensus there, and it's allowed these different organizations... I may then speak in the discussion, but now I ask these two questions: the reasons for what was going on there, what the problems were so that you could explain it, and whether you invited representatives and if not, why? And whether the committee spoke to the representatives of this environment. I'm asking you to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u99	Thank you, Senator. Senator, I am not here as the person who is to explain the problems that existed in the Polish Horse Racing Club, I am here as the rapporteur of the committee, and at the committee meeting we did not discuss these problems, in fact there was no more discussion, there was no discussion about the bill at all. I think it is up to the President to invite representatives of various organisations, and I think such invitations have been made. The subject, as the senator said, is known by the environment in relation to horse racing. The meeting of the Sejm Committee was attended by representatives of these communities and I think that if they wanted to, we know when the committee meeting is being convened and what is the subject of the committee's deliberations, and even if someone was not informed, everyone can take part in the committee meeting. But there were no such representatives, at the committee meeting, no votes of those representatives of the organization or any association of breeders or coaches and riders... no one at the committee meeting was and no one was speaking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u100	Thank you. As the last Senator Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u101	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. The Senator rapporteur uses the word "order." I'd like to know what kind of cleanup it is, because if it's tidying up, it's coming from something. Can the senator give us the results of the NIK check that was recently about horse racing? I would also like to hear when the term of office of the new council and the new president began and how they were elected in the vote, if any. Was it a vote, or was it a choice by acclamation, or was it another way of choosing? And tell me, has such an important subject been consulted with organisations that bring together horse breeders, or others from this particular environment?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u102	Part of the question you asked the senator, I already answered. Like I said, they're kind of repeating themselves. At the committee meeting, we did not address the subjects that you presented to the senator. I'm not a member of this council or the earlier one that worked. I don't know exactly what the Senator wants me to talk about. Besides, that's not my role at this point. But even if I wanted to answer that question, I don't really have the knowledge to share it with the senator. [[Yeah, but there were, Mr. Senator, and the other questions I asked. Control NIK...]] At the committee meeting, we didn't talk about the control of the NIK. There was a discussion earlier about the NIK report, but as far as the committee meeting was concerned, this topic was not addressed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u103	Thank you very much. Senator Majer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u104	Mr. Marshal, Senator rapporteur, please tell me if I understand correctly that the main objective... Because there were questions about the purpose of this bill. I understand the purpose of the bill. Please remove me from error if you do not. It is an improvement in the quality of work of the Polish Horse Racing Club and its organisation. Am I getting this right?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u105	Yes, Mr. Senator... [[Thank you very much.]] ...you understand that very well. I emphasized, although maybe these were other words, that it was about improving the functioning, improving the functioning of the Council of the Polish Horse Racing Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u106	Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you.]] That's why we've exhausted the list of questions. The bill was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ewa Lech: No, thank you.]] At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute of question to government representatives related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u107	Minister, I would like to ask you this question, one of the questions that was asked to the senator of the rapporteur. What is the ratio legis of this law? I mean, what is it? This law changes the rules of the Council, reduces the number of members of the Council. What is it? Didn't that advice work out? Was the appointing formula inappropriate and at the moment there will be a different appointing formula, better specialists than ever before? What is it? Why are we proceding this bill?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u108	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that Mrs Ewa Lech, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, is here. Please, Minister, answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u109	Mr. Marshal, I just want to remind you that this is a parliamentary bill. But if I may refer to the point of amending this law, first of all I will stress, once again, after Mr. Senator, that it was about ordering the council's work and making it easier to make decisions. It has often been so that one member of the council resigned from being a member of the council, and the organization that designated it did not make an appropriate request. He didn't come any more, he didn't take part in the council's work, and the organization didn't cancel it. There's been a lot of cases like this. The same was true when one of the council members simply died, but still included in the list of council members. It is simply about improving decision-making. Another example is the difficulty of reaching consensus in the appointment of Presidents. At times, part of the council gathered to apply for the appointment of President, and after two days, the council met in a different composition and asked for the removal of that President and the appointment of another President. It really was a mess. From this point of view it is really ordering the action of the council and I would not tie this Polish Horse Racing Club in any way with horse studs, it has nothing to do with it. The real point is that the Polish Horse Racing Club will work smoothly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u110	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Senator Augustine, and then Mr. Senator Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u111	Minister, this environment associated with horse racing is pretty big and, I guess, it's pretty big. Therefore, this advice was so that all parties could be sufficiently represented. How will this representativeness be ensured now, with much less board membership? That's the first question. And the second, in the context of what you asked Marshal Borusewicz and, in total, me also earlier. After all, the shortcomings you are talking about, the organizational shortcomings, the decision-making, maybe they could be resolved without these changes, did not require ending the term of the previous council, but merely changing the procedure. So I admit that I'm not satisfied with an indication of the purpose you want to achieve by amending this bill, because the one you're talking about didn't require such moves at all.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u112	Mr Senator, unfortunately, the law that we are amending, which is being amended by Members, has been calculated when, in what situations a member of the Council is appointed, but it was not defined when it could be cancelled, even the council itself could not do anything with a member who made it difficult for her to work. As for the term of office, it seems that in the first half of the year the term of office ends. When we take into account the date of entry into force of the Act and the provision that a new Council and a new President are set up within 60 days, it will turn out that the period for which the term of office will be reduced will be really short. That's not a big problem. As regards the criteria for the appointment of members of the Board, because that was the next question, of course organisations that will appoint their representatives will apply the criteria themselves. We leave it in their hands. The minister, considering the organization's conclusions, will simply agree to their request. We trust the organizations will know who they're designating. That's how we approach it. As regards the term of office of the President, the President may be revoked at the request of the Council and after consulting the Minister for Agriculture. So that we do not share these fears. As for the environments that are interested in the action of the Polish Horse Racing Club, I do not want to use the word "enthusiastic" but really very favorably referred to the draft law. The environment is very positive about the draft law, already the law on the amendment of the law. [[What kind of environments?]] Of course, it's about horse racing, these organizations. [[But which one?]] Mr. Senator, I can't replace it, but it's not a theory sucked out of a finger, really. I was personally called by organizations, and the board came and said that it would finally be structured.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u113	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Dowhan, and then Mr. Senator Ambrosik.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u114	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. You inspired me to ask you a question... I'd ask you to answer in writing. If someone calls the ministry, they always introduce themselves, then someone else connects them to someone, etc. Besides, this bill has been processed recently, so I think you have a good memory about it. You said someone in the community called. When I was running a sports club, I got a call from either the player or the manager's representative or the president of another club, etc. And I knew who I was talking to. Well, the generals... I just didn't read a good word about it anywhere, and I'd like to hear it if that's the way it is... I'd like to know in public. That's my first question. My second question is, have you ever been to the Servant and seen horse races, watched these competitions run, organized, how many people come? [[And the Senator from Green Mountain was?]] I'm asking the Minister's question, Senator. And another one of my questions. Don't you think, Minister, that it's a little bit wrong that it's even funny that a project that concerns you as a ministry is being submitted by a group of Members? What the ministry does and what it's going to do... This is not a government project, it is done by Members. Isn't it a little bit like someone's doing you, and you guys really have nothing to do with it, and you just have to accept it?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u115	Mr Senator, I cannot forbid Members from submitting any draft laws. So it is customary that when a project is brought in, we refer to it. We have a right and a duty to work on it, so I don't see it here... If the agricultural minister didn't take the initiative... Perhaps there were other priorities. This Parliamentary bill is considered valid, useful, we believe it will actually improve the functioning of the horse racing club. As far as I'm concerned, I'm not interested in racing, I'm not a fan of this kind of sport.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u116	Thank you. Senator Ambrozik and then Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u117	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I would like to repeat the question of the President's term of office. What were the grounds for abolishing... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ewa Lech: Again, I'm sorry, I didn't hear you.]] It's about the President's term of office. Why was this cadence abolished?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u118	After consulting the Minister, he may appoint... I think it's a matter of order here. But the council can always appeal to the president, no one takes that right away from the council. [[On the basis of the present law, the Council may also ask for this. Yes?]] Yes, but the difference is that the term of office is now abolished, which doesn't mean that the president will be president for life. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u119	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, and then Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u120	Madam Minister, since the term of office will be abolished, there will be no need for additional reasons when the President is dismissed, that is the difference. I'd like to ask you, Minister... I believe that the cancellation of heads, presidents of studs in Janów and Michałów is simply a scandal. Because he was in this case by the media being portrayed as the one who was active... Let me ask you a question as to whether Senator Jan Dobrzyński had a role here or not. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ewa Lech: Mr. Marshal, I cannot answer, because unfortunately I do not know what it is.]] Press release said that Senator Dobrzyński intervened on the appeal of the presidents of the studs in Janów and Michałów. Do you know this information? [[Senator Dobrzyński is in the O.R.]] [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ewa Lech: I do not know this information.]] I see. So you can't answer either yes or no. And I thought you'd deny it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u121	Mr. Marshal, may I say another word? I really don't know... I don't even know the senator. I'm sorry. I can't answer that question because I don't know the answer. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u122	Thank you very much. Senator Zdrojewska and then Senator Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u123	Dear Minister, I'd like to ask... Because at the moment the President is calling and dismissing the Minister, without the request of the club, which is in fact such a advice. And in fact, these proposals, presented by Members and accepted, as I hear them, by the Minister responsible, are proposals that clearly strengthen the role of the Ministry in this matter. They don't improve, they don't improve council work. What you were talking about when you were giving examples that you didn't call something there... to make improvements like that, it's enough to have a proper board policy. That's enough. And you do not focus on the fact that this project strongly strengthens the minister's powers to interfere in the work of something called the Polish Horse Racing Club. I would like to point out that the word "club" in the name is not accidental either. Clubs operate in such a way that they talk, discuss, gather, develop a common environment. And this environment is quite divided in terms of opinion and interests, because of its specific characteristics. Because the body in question is to bring together all those who represent breeders, owners, etc. And their business is quite different. And I ask: why not the rules, just to strengthen the position of minister? This is another law that we get from your department, which strengthens the position of the Ministry at the expense of organizations and social representatives in various kinds of councils or clubs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u124	Senator, as far as I understand, since the current law regulated the way and mode but to a very limited extent The appointment of board members, if we wanted to make a difference in this respect... Well, as I understand it, it could only change the bill, not the rules. That's how I understand it. Maybe I'm wrong. [[I will ask: but you have not corrected this council's work bill. You have increased the authority of the Minister.]] I think we've increased our competence... [[It was de facto...]] That is true, the minister's powers are increased. But at the same time, when it comes to... because there are fewer members, there is less controversy, fewer arguments, less arguments. And I think the council will work better. We're convinced of that. [[Minister, the least argument would be if the Minister made the decisions. What's the point of a club or a council? Then it would be the least controversial.]] [[The presidents don't change.]] [[Thank you very much. I'm sorry that...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u125	Thank you. Senator Czarnobaj and then Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u126	Mr. Marshal, Minister, if there are two more words, if the Minister could answer the question... When he asked the Senator, one of the senators asked: I understand this is in order to improve the quality of the council's work? I understand what the Minister said that someone died there, that one didn't come... Are these the only elements you want to implement in order to improve the quality of work of this council? That you're gonna discipline her members, I understand, to work? And what in this regard, as regards discipline, can be done if these newly called ones do not participate... That's one question. And second question, Minister. We're picking nine of which are six of those organizations that report... And if 12 or 15 candidates come forward, I understand that the Minister will choose from the whole palette. Are there any known criteria for the selection of these six members, Minister? Are they just going to give birth, or are you the only minister, himself, who knows them personally? Are the selection criteria known in the ministry? Will it decide the number of horses that take part in the races, the size of breeding, God knows what, any other elements? Are such criteria known? Will membership of different political organisations be taken into account? What elements will the Minister consider when choosing when the number of persons notified is greater than 6, which is what the Minister will have to choose?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u127	Mr. Senator, I'll go back to what I said. Organisations that will appoint candidates for the board will certainly take into account their specific criteria. Such a candidate will submit his CV, consent to being a member of the board, and based on his assessment... This first most important selection will be in the forum of an organization that will appoint a member of the board. If there are actually too many of these people, after reviewing the CV, the Minister will choose the members of the board to familiarize himself with the experience of the candidates. That's all I have to say about it. As far as discipline is concerned, in addition to those matters I have been talking about, the amended Act sets a deadline for reporting on activities The President must submit them by mid-year. So far it has been written that it is reporting on its activities, but there was no deadline. In addition, members of the board will be able, so to speak, to have an insight into all documentation related to the management of the club. So that in this sense, I think, confirms what we've been saying is ordering, disciplinary action. [[Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u128	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u129	...if possible, one clarification. Minister, I understand that you have no knowledge of what criteria the Minister will consider. You said that based on your résumé... May I, Mr Marshal, ask the Ministry, the Minister or the Minister, to answer the question whether, in addition to the CV, there are any criteria that the Minister will consider when selecting six members? And if you don't mind, I'd like to ask you to answer in writing so as not to bother the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u130	Now Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, and then Mr. Senator Dowhan, and, I understand, that will be the last question... You're still Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u131	Minister, what were the reasons for the dismissal of the presidents of the studs in Janów Podlaski and Michałów? Do you know...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u132	But I don't think that applies to this bill, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u133	Mr. Senator, I'm not responsible for this sphere because it's under the authority of another vice minister, your... [[Minister, you don't have to answer because this doesn't apply to this bill.]] But I think it's been said many times. There's a proceeding going on, so I guess it's premature... I'm not authorized to provide information on this.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u134	Thank you, Minister. Senator Dowhan, and then Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u135	The rapporteur did not answer the question relating to the control of the NIK which has been carried out recently in this place. Can the Minister answer what this check was about and what are the details of this check?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u136	On the basis of the information I remember, I can say that the control concerned the supervision of the Minister of Agriculture of the Polish Horse Racing Club and the management of the Polish Horse Racing Club with the assets he managed. The surveillance activities of the Minister of Agriculture have been positively assessed. In the case of the horse racing club, certain shortcomings were found, such as the fact that rentals or rentals were not quite effectively collected in all cases. The recommendation was to enforce those rents. Part of it worked out, some of the funds for rent fees are in the process of enforcing... The control was not about the operation of the council, but about the management of the Polish Horse Racing Club and the supervision of the Minister of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u137	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Florek will be the last to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u138	Mr. Marshal, Minister, I'm not a member of the Agriculture Committee, but I'd like to ask you this. We talked about the fact that the reduction in the number of members of the board is related, among others. with costs. It is known that the representativeness of the council will be slightly changed. It is stated in the Act that the Council shall adopt resolutions by a simple majority in the presence of at least 5 of its members. So there are records, although I don't know how it was in the previous bill. My question is... If that's the case, do you... One point states that members of the Board are entitled to reimbursement of travel costs within the country in connection with their participation in the meeting of the Board. And it's only about PKP tickets, or 1/3 of the maximum fare per kilometer, and that's not a lot of money. And my question is, do the members of the board receive any allowances for attending the board meetings?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u139	Senator, the board members are working socially, they don't get any pay for their work. However, the amendment proposed by the Senate committee shows that the reimbursement of costs will cover not 1/3, but the total cost. In the explanatory memorandum of Mr Khalimoniak, present p.o. President, there is such information that, first of all, it will not be a great damage to the operation of the Polish Horse Racing Club, and secondly, because the number of members of the council has decreased dramatically, you can afford to pay back travel expenses, especially as members of the board work socially, without remuneration.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u140	Thank you very much, Minister. Thus, the list of senators who...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u141	Excuse me, Minister, I have the comparative material ahead of me, and in this document it is clearly written: by a passenger car, at a rate of 1/3 of the cost of this journey, etc. Well, unless it's out of date... [[Senator, check this out in the committee's report.]] (Yeah? Okay, thank you.)
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u142	Thank you. We've exhausted the list of senators who volunteered to ask questions. Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to inform you that a government representative has undertaken to provide written answers to the questions asked by Senators Dowhan and Czarnobaj. I'm opening a discussion. You were the first to speak to Marshal Borusewicz. You're welcome, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u143	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I expected that the position on this bill would be presented to us by Minister Jurgiel, who is responsible for the change in studs and probably personally made those decisions that caused so much controversy. So it was wrong that Minister Jurgiel or the Deputy Minister who is responsible for this part of the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture did not come. I had to ask a whole bunch of questions, because the stud thing is just annoying. Here I must say that this good change has led to absurdity. We thought: what does this good change have to do with studs? And yet two presidents of the most important studs in Poland, Arabian horse studs, Janów Podlaski and Michałów were dismissed. And now there are more appeals and more vocations that cause controversy. The president of the Stad of the Stallions in Łącek was the head of the PiS structure, a young man who had nothing to do with horses. I admire the courage of those young people who do not have the authority to take this position. I also admire the courage of those who appoint them, because in a moment we will have to settle, and in a moment we will assess whether these studs are conducted better or worse. The matter to discuss... the auction in Janów Podlaski. We hear everything's fine. Well, we'll see, this auction's coming up in a minute. There's a question of Shirley Watts' horses that are dead. It's all over the predecessors, they say... not the predecessors. I'm suggesting The Minister for Agriculture suggests That they were poisoned by some kind of feed problem. There's an investigation going on. Well, I wonder who poisoned Shirley Watts' horses and whether they were actually poisoned or killed by those horses, the death of these horses is not simply the result of an oversight. If long-term heads of breeding as specific as breeding of horses are recalled, they must be replaced earlier. They can't be the people from the catcher who, when they ask what experience they have, answer, well, I like horses. Everybody likes horses. I like horses, too, but look at them, and that's the end of it. Unfortunately, this point, which seems to be only a formal point, is intended to lead to the election of such presidents as the minister Jurgel wants what PiS wants, because that's why this advice is being changed. I was asking about the ratio legis of changing this advice. That's what this bill is for, to eliminate the old council, and to call a new one. We know these surgeries. We know these operations because they were conducted even in the case of the National Radio and Television Council. The bill is changing, i.e. There is a decrease in the number of members of the board, so of course there must be a law. And it's the same procedure. This is a bad bill, all the more so because it also cancels competitions. I understand the PiS doesn't like competitions. He's shutting down those competitions all over the place. In the civil service, on the radio, on the television, and now there are studs. Studs are another, as it might seem, key elements from the point of view of the PiS for its power. The liquidation of competitions does not mean that nothing happens here, because it was possible to cancel the president also earlier, when there were competitions, and that the one who won the competition, signed the contract for a fixed period, etc. Something's changing. There is such a situation that such a president can be changed, cancelled at any time, and this need not be further justified. And if there is a competition, if there is a appointment for a fixed period, for a term of office, it must be justified. And if such a President is dismissed earlier without justification, high checks, compensation, etc. shall be paid. So a good change in horse studs has led to absurdity. To me, it's this. It is simply inconceivable that this is how you deal with people who kept these studs at such a level that in auctions in Janów and Michałów horses reached huge prices. It's huge prices. And it's ruined. Well, it's destroying itself. And there's already a signal that individuals are retreating. So this good change is made to be absurd. I also asked about the role of Senator Jan Dobrzyński. I thought I'd get denial that he played any role. I didn't get that denial. And yet, the Minister, the press and other media were really writing about it. Everyone, even the one who didn't want to read about it like I did, because I didn't want to read any negative opinions about the Senate and the senators, had to read it. I would also like to say that I have a good memory and remember that in the previous term, not the latter, but the previous one, I received an invitation to auction horses in Janów Podlaski or Michałów... No, Janów Podlaski. And I said no because I'm not interested in horses. To my surprise, Senator Dobrzyński approached me, suggesting that I appoint him as my envoy. It's the first time I've met with a situation like this that the senator would come forward and say he wanted to be a marshal's envoy. Mostly it's the marshal who's looking for someone he's gonna send in. I was completely surprised, really completely surprised. And it was my question that I asked the Minister also in this context, because I understood... i.e. Then I realized that the senator owns the stud, and that's why he's interested. And then, apparently, he had trouble entering this auction as a competitor or something... Anyway, that was the situation. And I have a good memory about distant times, but also current times. Minister, I am sorry that you were sent here and that you had to answer questions about this situation, although you are not in charge of this department. I don't know why the Minister was sent by Minister Jurgiel. He should expect that there will be questions to him. [[The Minister handles the races, but not the studs.]] But, Senator rapporteur, it is known that on the occasion of this bill there will be speeches and questions concerning the wider issue... [[But Minister Jurgiel was at the committee meeting.]] ...because what happens in all studs, especially in Michałów and Janów Podlaski, caused... [[Mr. Marshal, please proceed to conclusions.]] It was known that there would be questions about this and that this would need to be addressed. So I regret that the Minister had to answer questions without the knowledge that Minister Jurgiel had. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u144	Thank you very much. Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u145	I'm just so quick to see the Senator rapporteur... If the Minister is coming here because he's running races at the Ministry, why hasn't she ever been to the Servant? I don't get it at all. If I was doing something, I'd go see what it looks like. And the races, ladies and gentlemen of the senators. Actually, the senators are the only ones here right now. They are held in several centres in the country. I am from Wrocław, where horse racing is also held. And I'd like to tell you that there are a dozen thousand people coming to the horse races. It's like this. Usually there are a few thousand people on race day. These are families that come there mostly for recreational purposes, not to play, bet. I myself, personally, and I've been going on our guerrilla track for decades. I have never bet on any race, but I am happy to look at horses and I am happy to see what a wonderful holiday it is for whole families, including children. It's really an art to gather such a large audience, sometimes bigger than at football games, just in the racing area. People love to look at horses and stuff. There is a huge community of people associated with horses, they have nothing to do with politics. That's why, even though it's not. We're aware of that. The most important bill we're working on in the Senate... But it's extremely annoying because it's just another human resources bill. She is only so that there is no more old advice and that the minister can actually according to his own will, de facto having very increased competence, establish his advice and submit to himself another social body in Poland. That's what it's all about. That's why it makes us so nervous. I am surprised by the Members of the Law and Justice who, knowing what controversy the issue of horses causes and how it upsets society Once again they put another law in our hands, which is incomprehensible and actually has only one purpose: to subdue another group in the field of horse breeding. Racing is very important when it comes to breeding horses, precisely because they are verification. Races are held, horses are sold, etc. Without racing, it is difficult to imagine breeding horses in Poland. And we know how much this issue is connected with the Polish tradition, how important and how important it is. And the fact that we're exchanging, we're throwing out experienced activists. ♪ Like I said ♪ Only to have his people there... 'Cause it's not like someone like that PiS president who's now... 'A young man's gonna be president and suddenly he's gonna take care of the horses because he likes them. These are the people who have been taking care of horses for decades, they're passionate, they're the people who've dedicated their whole lives to this case. I know many such and breeders, and owners. I really don't understand... I'm looking at my law and justice buddies. What's that for? You had to accept that there are bodies that are social, who are discussing and expressing opinions somewhere. We do not necessarily have to regulate and fill the people of the Ministry or the Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u146	Thank you very much, Senator. Now, Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u147	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Before I begin this main part, I would like to address Senator Błaszczyk, the rapporteur. It's about what Marshal Borusewicz was talking about, whether this bill is related to events concerning studs. Nevertheless, the main subject in the races is the horse. That is why these elements, in our view, are linked. That's why it's a question. It's a shame the Minister didn't have the answers. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! A few words about this bill. The Act, as Senator Zdrojewska said, is not a law of a heavy species in terms of its substantive content. But As I remember from my self-government history, the city council has always discussed the draft resolution on the amount of the dog fee. It's always been the most emotional thing. But I would also like to say that such laws show something very important The approach of the rulers to what the problem of this law concerns. The issue of the bill concerns the new composition of the Council of the Polish Horse Racing Club. Why are we changing it? Well, as we heard in the answers to the questions and to the senator, and to the Minister, To improve quality. So I understand that the best way to improve quality is... [[Reinforcing. You have insisted on this improvement in quality.]] Mr. Senator, wait a minute. Improving the quality of functioning. So if someone who was a member died so unhappyly Or if someone doesn't come to the club council meeting, what's the best thing to do? Revocation by law of all, appoint new ones and say: 'We do this to improve the quality of the board'. That was the message that you answered from that tribune. That's one thing. Secondly, please note that with regard to the organisation's data, which should have a key opinion on how this club operates, what it does, what decisions it makes, it is done in this way that the number of organisations is decreasing. Why is it shrinking? Why? Yeah, so you can have a lot of choices. So there's gonna be 25 candidates, and I'm gonna pick six of my own who have connotations with Law and Justice. Oh, God, don't give me that. Like the editor Zimoch said a few uncensored words according to the PiS about the Constitutional Tribunal and what? He's not going to the European Championship anymore, and he's definitely not going to the Olympics either. So these six are going to be those who probably speak very well about Law and Justice, and maybe they know a little bit about horses by the way. I will wait for information from the Minister on what criteria he will follow, and I will probably inform all the Senators of the Civic Platform. We also have a saved point, which is very good, of course, in the assessment of the Senators of Law and Justice That the Minister may, on his own initiative, dismiss any member without making an argument. It says he can cancel on his own initiative. You know, when I started working in Peerel, and I signed my first responsibilities, it was a few years ago, my reasonable boss said: listen, you don't read it, read the last item. And in the last point it was written: "Do other commands of the boss. " And that's what you need to concentrate on, man. You're doing the same maneuver. You guys have a lot in common with the time that's passed, with the peerel. Well, you're moving these pieces alive, which means you're setting up a council where cadence, independence should be the most important element... Because like the senator said, or maybe you're a marshal, the club is something that should work far from the administrative guidelines. But no, it must be borne in mind that if somebody does bad things, of course evil according to the criteria of Law and Justice The Minister may cancel it on his own initiative. Now it's a matter of opinion. The country in the previous term... I remember that the Senators of Law and Justice attached great importance to what concerns vacathio legis and what concerns the opinion of the environment. And when we ask the minister, the minister says, "Someone called, I won't comment." On the basis of this: someone called, I don't know who, but the opinion is very positive, very positive. Yeah, somebody called... It's a little cabaret, Minister, but it's okay. From what I read... I am not a racing expert, but from what I read in the press, it appears that this environment, in fact the opposite, is very negative about your good change, namely that here you will now select these 6 excellent representatives to the council according to your own criteria of the Minister and it will be the Polish Horse Race Club under the sign of Law and Justice. Finally, Mr. Marshal, I would like to talk about a case that was born in this term of office. Namely, such a new secular tradition was created. Notice this thing. I'm watching... In comparison, I have a previous term because I was a senator then, and a current term. In the previous term, when the senator was speaking here from the speaker, although the problem was not discussed at the committee meeting, I remember that it was rare for the senator to say: 'I'm very sorry, it was not the subject of the committee's deliberations; he always presented the spirit of the bill, why it is introduced, etc., etc. I'm not addressing the senator, I'm talking about the general feeling of all the law and justice here. I will go to the trouble and count how many times you have responded to the various draft laws: "This has not been the subject of the committee's deliberations. Well, then just give you two sentences of the report and we won't bother you in a debate that should be an open debate and the Senator should report what he knows about what the spirit was, what it was for, etc., etc. And that's one aspect. This new secular tradition. And the second is that, behold, the constitutional minister often comes and says, "Well, I will answer you a little, but this is a parliamentary initiative, and there is no messenger here. In this connection, we ask, and the Minister is either in writing or in a slightly describing mode of reality that deviates completely from the proposed bill... So we have this secular tradition: as soon as possible, it would be best without discussion, best by noon the bill will affect, at night we process, and in the morning the president signs. And this is a new secular tradition that I would like to draw attention to, Mr. Marshal. And I would like to ask your marshal, the bureau, the political authorities, that you end up with this good change, which is this new secular tradition, which is that a number of projects are parliamentary projects, so that we do not get much of the answer to questions from government representatives, because this is a parliamentary project, the Member is absent, and the most common answer of the Senator rapporteur is this: I am sorry, but I will not answer this question because it was not the subject of a committee meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u148	Thank you very much, Senator. Except it doesn't belong to the Senate Bureau... [[But it's just...]] ...forbidding the submission of parliamentary projects, because that's constitutional. And as you know very well, the Senator rapporteur reports on the committee meeting, and that is in line with the rules of procedure. If the senator wishes to change the Senate's Rules of Procedure, you may begin this procedure. [[Can I have one sentence, Mr. Marshal?]] Please. [[It's not a matter of regulations. It's a matter of good manners.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u149	Mr. Marshal, that's right. What I'm trying to say is that I'm assuming that everything isn't going to go down even in the best rules that I could create. I am talking about a certain custom in this House that, first, the Senator rapporteur knew a lot about the bill and, second, 99% of the cases, the one who defended the bill here was the government representative. And it's tradition, it won't be written down, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u150	Now, Senator Dowhan. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u151	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister! High Izbo! In a way, as former president of Falubaz, I was called to the board. It's a good thing that running a sports club at least at this stage, when I'm an active politician, I'm over it. Because what would happen if I had to file a bill today... And when you look at what we're looking at right now, it's not out of the question that the president of my beloved club, Falubazu Zielona Góra, will be elected politically and will decide about it. Minister for Agriculture. Well, it's an object that grows grass, trees, at least it's in Green Mountain, so it has something to do with agriculture. And it might turn out that way, because once. I don't remember the exact situation, I didn't have time to remember it. This attempt on PZPN was made when they tried to politically play the position of president of the union. This is unacceptable. Then the world authorities intervened and did not allow politicians to bury in relationships that are created not only in Poland but also in the world. In them there is a term of office, they have their boards, the members of which are elected, as for example. At our place in Zielona Góra, the board responds, often with their wealth. The Minister has not answered most of our questions. I don't blame you, because you said yourself you didn't go to the races, and you don't have any interest in being in it, living it, and being interested. But it's too bad there's no minister here who's interested as a live one. Because when it comes to horse racing, that's, you can say, our national welfare. This is also something that sets a certain level and, above all, big money is at stake. If big money is involved, you should be responsible. And responsibility is also good preparation for today's discussion. I state that you are not prepared, that you have been sent to be here, to answer a few questions in such a way that you do not know or have not been discussed, or the committee has not dealt with, and by the way, these opinions... I would like to know these opinions, because since there have been calls with opinions, I would very much like to get acquainted with them. Because to my knowledge, what I've read, opinions are negative, opinions of people who've been in this for years. I do not know if the Minister knows that in the 1920s the track on Służewiec was founded, dropped and bought these 150 hectares, the best citizens of Warsaw. It was they who bought the land with their own money, arranged it, and today this object is considered one of such objects, which are not only history, but also our monuments. They're the ones who made their contribution, and today we can cultivate it. And this is also this tradition, this continuity, which today you are trying very frivolously to interrupt. What did this advice do wrong that suddenly had to be canceled? What's wrong with a four-year term? Our term of office also lasts four years. The term of office is permanently inscribed in various forms of social, sports or other areas of life. What's so bad about turning it all upside down all of a sudden? I really don't get it. It's also weird that in such a little understanding, especially for me... I have tried to capture the purpose of this change, and neither the Minister nor the rapporteur, except for the generals that we can fit into everything, have presented this objective. I am afraid that today this law introduces into such an excellent creation as the Polish Horse Racing Club, a decision that will depend on one man. This will not be a decision taken by the jury, which always allows for the choice of the person who is most wanted, the person who is often chosen on the basis of the competition, taking into account the experience. And what experience people have today, who are nominated for different positions of this type, is the press describes and you know very well that it is not exactly what you are talking about today. And tomorrow we will know the names that are probably already waiting in there, there are envelopes in the wardrobe in the Ministry and they are waiting to be opened so that these people take up prestigious functions, connected not only with the circulation of big money, but also with the area that needs to be taken care of, which needs to be developed and which lies in the centre of Warsaw. This is a beautiful area, 150 ha, an area that has not been reduced in any way despite various political changes, which has not been sold to developers, and I know that such temptations have been. For so many years with various political changes, I even think about the previous system, it had hands and legs, and the only place where you could meet elegant ladies in beautiful hats, it was the Servant in Warsaw, that way women dressed up, because it is a dignified place, and if it is a dignified place, then it also needs to be properly cared for. Mr. Marshal, I'd like to file a motion to reject this bill. I've got it, it's written, I'm bringing it because I didn't take it with me, instead I took my laptop. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u152	An iPod. [[Yeah, an iPod.]] Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Florek, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u153	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We are talking about the fact that the stability of the law, the stability of the organs, the cadence are important matters and this must be respected. There are exceptional situations where the term of office really needs to be shortened, but these must be justified cases. In the case of the advice we are talking about, it is difficult to see the justification, especially since the Council ends its term of office, as you said, next year, in 2017. I've been trying to find some arguments, I've been looking for a financial argument, because this advice is bigger, or maybe if there's less board members, it'll cost less. But what I read, and what the Minister said here, is that travel costs are not a third of the cost when it comes to a kilometer, only the whole... But this is, as I understand it, the Senate proposal, which means that this amendment has not yet been voted on, but we will be voting on it. As members of the Board do not receive any remuneration, they receive reimbursement. I read here, gentlemen, that a member of the council in connection with attending a meeting of the council is entitled to reimbursement of travel expenses within the country. And here we have it: the mode of transport, except for passenger cars, that's what we were talking about, was going to be 1/3 of the cost, now it's going to be a whole kilometer away. In the amount of documented tickets or invoices covering the price of the ticket of the means of transport, the type and class of which shall be determined by the President. Well, ladies and gentlemen, it's amazing by law that the president determines on the basis of which ticket and which class, whether in first class or second grade, I can go. Well, the CEO's powers go all the way down there that he's fixing the type of ticket we're going on. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sure this is one thing. It is important that the President appointed by the Minister should be the person who has a decisive influence. The Council in a reduced capacity, re-elected less than a year before the end of its term of office, will also have a specific task. Well, you can expect the composition of this advice. I am opposed to ending my term in such a way, early on, because there is really no reasonable justification for this type of action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u154	Thank you very much, Senator. [[Mr. Marshal...]] You're welcome, Senator rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u155	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Senate, I'm very short. I will refer to these allegations, which is my role as rapporteur. I have always thought and I think that all the Senators of the rapporteur are trying to give you full information about the committee meeting. We cannot accept the discussion, the questions that the Senators of the Civic Platform are asking, the political questions or the press reports. Most of the questions I didn't answer were questions to me as a member of the Law and Justice or about press reports. I think it is unreasonable to suggest that we do not want to answer the questions or do not know what the proposed amendment is about. Ladies and gentlemen, the subject of today's law concerns the horse racing club. I'm a little bit aware of how the horse race track was running in Służewiec, in the Partynice, in Sopot, what were the problems, etc. There was a time when the races on the Servant practically fell because due to the confusion of the business and politics world, the desire to rip out this very greedy bit, i.e. the 6 ha that are not under the control of the conservator, there were temptations to sell it and end the running of the horse race track. During our term of office in 2005-2007 we categorically left this idea, we created the possibility to finance this track also by supporting the Sports Totalizator. There's no denying that investments have been made over the years, the track is changing. More and better rewards and payouts... None of the breeders will give horses to the races if they do not have reimbursement of training and maintenance costs. There's a lot to do about racing because infrastructure is neglected, and coaching facilities, riding... I am approached by young riders who do not have the conditions or opportunities to operate on the track because, in view of the cost of renting an apartment in Warsaw... What they receive is not enough to rent an apartment. There were possibilities, there were buildings near the horse race track, which could be adapted to the riders' apartments, but... problems are many, horse subjects have been neglected for years. Mr Krzysztof Jurgel is here, who recently appointed the Horse Farm Council. I think it's a very good step towards organizing all of this. The Council is divided into teams, we have already held the second and the first formal meeting. And I think we're gonna be working on it. The Minister also honored me with being a member of this council and... [[Mr. Senator, this is a discussion. There's no...]] Good. Many of you raised the subject of horses, horse breeding. Good. It's just, like I said, there's a lot of work to be done here. I encourage you to really work on breeding horses, breeding horses of the most probably known, pure Arab blood, but also full of English blood, also sports horses of noble breeds, Anglo-Arab horses, noble half-breeds. Therefore, it is important that we make a decision and change... so that we do not look only through the prism of Janów Podlaski and Michałów and those events. It's up to the Minister. But breeding horses this is really a very wide area, as I think, of activity and farming, and economic, and also sports, recreational. Therefore, I ask you to work on the changes that I think are going to come and go in the long term, thanks also to the Minister's advice, and that we change all this in the right direction and not constantly accuse ourselves of politics and politics. I don't think we're going that way. [[Who's accusing, Mr. Senator?]] Colleagues from the Civic Platform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u156	Thank you very much. We just wrote your voice down as a voice in the discussion. Senator Dowhan. For the second time, five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u157	I'm on my way. I'm not limping like that anymore. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Minister! I am very pleased that you have reached this point, although it is a pity that you haven't been there since the beginning, because we had a lot of doubts, and now it will be difficult to ask you questions so that you can participate in the discussion. But what I just told you is that I'm applying to be the new president of the horse races... I have good experience because I ran a sports club for 15 years. I'm in the Senate tonight, but I'd love to go back to sports, because there's some rules out there. Someone better wins, somebody worse loses. As it was in the competitions that were eliminated: those who did not have a good name, good back, good friends, uncles, aunts, big studs or something that involved a given passion, always had a chance and could break through. It's because they learned well, they did their job well in a previous relationship, business or whatever. And now everything will be dependent on the Minister. As I said earlier in my speech, I am afraid that in a moment all sports relationships will be dependent on the minister. And why should people get together, choose, pay contributions when they come. The Minister of Agriculture will say... and, like I said before, e.g. In dross sport, in motor sport, in which I have been active for many years, he will appoint his man. There's no use in tradition, there's no use in cadence, there's no use in skill. It's a pity, Minister, that's what's happening. It's a shame it's touching another really prestigious place. A place only in its rank and history. Places where people get together really on a level, which you can see. People who have participated in Warsaw's life in Służewiec for many years. I've had the opportunity to be there a few times, I've seen it happen, I've been in the betting business myself, twice I've even been able to pick out a good one, even though I'm not an expert, like the senator... [[If you knew the bill, you'd win.]] I managed to win a couple of golds a few times, not a lot, because the oddly small punctures were. But I bet on those who weren't high in the ranking, and they were winning. And I wouldn't want that to happen again. Because this rule doesn't always work. And I wouldn't want that to happen again in life, Minister. I'd like it to be that if you pick a man 'Cause I hope you don't have a cook in your closet. This will not bring shame to what was built for several generations here, in Warsaw or in Poland, as I also mentioned in my previous speech. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u158	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Dobrzyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u159	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm glad another bill came to us... and basically the bill. Because the project has already been voted out in the Sejm It concerns horse breeding generally understood as breeding horses in state studs, but not only, because also in private studs, because private studs also exhibit their horses for racing. This is another attempt to organize all these matters that are related to the widely understood breeding of Arabian pure-bred horses or folks, because such ones run on the Servant. I come to the Servant quite often and see how these objects are neglected, I see that there is no host. The last eight years have deepened this ruin. That's why I'm glad the Minister took care of it. The breeding of Arabian horses in our country is extremely important. I dare say that previous governments have not been able to use this to promote our country in the world, especially in the Arab countries, but I hope that this will change now. Please also remember that breeding Arabian pure horses in our studs takes 25% the basic activity, because the basic activity of studs is not only horses, but also cows and agriculture of the land. So here we have to remember that. And this whole media dispute, which we all had the opportunity to follow, was only about 20% of our studs. Ladies and gentlemen, the law we are talking about today also arranges management issues, in this case racing. Currently, in a group of up to 25 people, in such a large group it was difficult to develop some solutions that would be useful for our breeding, for races, because everyone had their opinions... And of course it's a good thing that it was, only a 25-person group is certainly not able to work out smart solutions, because there are different views... So that limiting the composition of the council to 9 people is absolutely reasonable and I am convinced that this will serve our breeding, it will make our country famous, it will also serve the races. So once again, Minister, thank you very much for these projects, for these changes. I would like to say that the changes that you are making show your far-reaching courage, the change that we have been talking about in the next election campaigns, that we need to make such good changes here too. This is a sport, ladies and gentlemen. We see that in many situations, especially in football, we have had various difficulties in the past. In fact, nothing has changed here until your office at the Ministry of Agriculture. Once again, I congratulate both you and all your colleagues very warmly on this good bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u160	Thank you very much. And Senator Zdrojewska for the second time, so you have five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u161	I just wanted to refer to... the senator just said that 25 people can't make smart decisions. What about the 100-person Senate? Don't we have any wise decisions worked out? [[But here's most of it, Senator, now maybe, he couldn't before.]] That's a rhetorical question. The answer is obvious to me. So, Mr. Senator, don't tell me that a 25-person body can't make wise decisions. Maybe. Another remark à about this ruin on the Servant. As far as I know. I haven't been to the Servant in a long time. The investment was carried out there all the time. The people who are there say that the Servant is well-maintained and that there were investments made. But I'll tell you about the Wroclaw Partynices I know. In Poland there are 3 horse racing tracks; in addition to these two there is still a track in Sopot. I'm going to talk about the racetrack in the Partynice, where the city government of Wrocław spent a huge amount of money on citizens' taxes to renovate this track. I invite you to this course of the senator, minister and minister, because it's really worth seeing. I have already mentioned that the historic guerrilla horse race track with a beautiful tribune is a unique object, one of the most beautiful in Europe. And once again, how much hard work it took to work out all the good things that are happening in the field of horse breeding and horse racing in Poland, this is really a huge value achieved in the last 25 years. And it has nothing to do with any politics, Mr. Senator. Because how long does a PiS exist, how long does a Platform exist? And this is a question of the long-standing traditions and enormous efforts of local governments, in which people from different political options ruled at the time. If these horse races really are at our heart, then let's not make such laws as this, because it's nothing, Mr. Senator, it's not gonna fix it, let's just think about how to improve the rules of operation and so on. Meanwhile, what is happening now is the exchange of professionals and people involved in their people, on the people of PiS, on the people appointed by the minister. I'll say it again: in my opinion, this 6-person group is completely not representative of this environment. I don't understand why it's supposed to be six, not at least 12, and I don't agree that if... Especially since they were the people who came there, as I just heard, for free, I mean. So far, even the cost of their journey has not been covered, i.e. these people are simply enthusiasts who came at their own expense, for love of horses. And you're throwing them out just to appoint some of your own, who will be so colloquially expressing themselves, under the hand of the Minister, will be dependent on the Minister's will, and they can be called off at any time, as Senator Florek said. It's outrageous that the minister can cancel someone just like that, without specific reasons, without an opinion of the entire council, etc. Thank you very much... Oh, I'm sorry, I just want to say that I'm disgusted, and I want to ask that the Senators of PiS no longer introduce a horse into the Polish Senate, as Kaligula did. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[What are you talking about, Senator?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u162	Thank you very much, Senator. The list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Komarnicki made his speech in the discussion on the protocol. I would also like to inform you that you have made a legislative proposal in writing, Senator Dowhan. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? Minister Jurgiel, who joined us, wants to speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u163	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I was informed that there was a request from the Senators of the Civic Platform to speak about Janów, about horse racing. I will be pleased to meet this request, but remind you: when two weeks ago we presented a programme of activities of the Ministry in this area, I explained the issue of Janów to Senator Klich, and this, I think, thoroughly. I believe that the senator has understood this, so today I will possibly just supplement this information so that there is no longer any doubt in the House of the Higher Parliament. As far as the horse racing bill is concerned, it was a conscious proposal. After 10 years, we're back on the subject. In 2005, when I became Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, there was an attempt to take over the races in Służewiec by a group of 30 people, who founded the association and wanted to lease races for 30 years, to make it happen in Poland, and especially often under the rule of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party. The State Treasury's assets are owned by private individuals. And that's the policy that's been implemented. That's when we managed to stop it. About the races on the Servant I would like to remind you that in 2000 a company called Służewiec was founded, to which 20 million PLN was transferred. This company ended up in the D.A.'s office, and then, of course, in the years 2002 to 2003, the D.A.'s office closed the investigation, but the doubts remained. And I think we can get back to that. Our goal in 2005 and 2006 was, unfortunately, to resign in connection with the coalition. It was to improve the income and profitability of horse racing by launching, for example, together with the Totalizator Sports, betting. And that is our goal, ladies and gentlemen. The point is that the Służewiec, these 180 ha of land, these real estates were actually ordered, because the Supreme Audit Office's checks stated that there are negligence in respect of property, in respect of property. And that's why after becoming a minister, I decided that this way of managing the council is gathering, but practically nobody is responsible too much. He's not taking the test. If the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development is to be responsible for the Treasury's assets, for the functioning of the races, then he should also have real power. So it is in democracy that after 4 years the option will be accounted for. And I would like this to be a positive assessment in our case. As far as Wrocław is concerned, Senator, I must say that almost 1 million zlotys pass the totalizator there, so it is not that races work so well. Anyway, the president came to me to talk to me about it. It is indeed a local government institution. I don't want to judge that, but I want you to know that almost PLN 1 million of subsidies are received there so that the balance sheet closes. The audit that we presented in the Sejm showed how the Platform was governed, what irregularities occurred and what style of governance it was, from state security to governance, and especially when it comes to property supervision. Everybody saw it. And I think the evaluation was right and reasonable. Senator Dowhan is worried that he's prepping, and he can't take over the function... I remind you that according to my intention for more than a month the competition has been announced and by 30 May each Pole can enter and take part in the competition for the president of the horse stud in Janów. And there's no... There will be a committee that will make a fair assessment of the expertise. However, I am concerned about the hypocrisy of the Senators of the Platform. I said this already during the presentation of the programme, when I presented the reasons why the management of the horse stud was changed after I assumed the role of minister. We evaluated forty-several companies which are in the Agricultural Property Agency; one of these companies was a horse stud in Janów. First of all, internal control in 2013 has already revealed irregularities in the management of horses in the stud. This catalog is very big; I didn't have time to take these documents. The Supreme Audit Chamber subsequently confirmed most of the irregularities in 2014, i.e. after the year of operation of the company nothing has changed. She confirmed these irregularities and even referred a report to the prosecutor's office of the offence in connection with part of the irregularity. Finally, the Central Anti-corruption Office in 2015 between 4 March and 28 September, and thus just before the elections, carried out a check on the functioning of these companies due to irregularities which were presented by the Supreme Audit Chamber and in connection with information affecting the Central Anti-corruption Office. It passed... It's made a five-month check. And we received such a handwriting. Of course, decisions are not made without reasons, especially decisions of this type if they appear And I specifically say here: if it seems That the stud is some success in Poland. I don't judge it that way after I get to know these materials in detail, I'm talking about real estate management, but the other side is about the quality of horse breeding, and it's really not done properly. I'm just going to talk about the mismanagement of these activities. In my view, overestimation of funds. And the latter case, in the light of the fact that we have an auction in August, I will not say that the international community simply does not know how the horse stud really works, how the studs functioned under the leadership of the famous two masters and the third lady who stayed under the art on Friday. 52 fired for activities to the detriment of the workplace. Mr. Bejda, head of the CBA, writes: "In addition, I am sending information from the control of taking and implementing selected decisions regarding the disposal of property by the Agricultural Property Agency in Warsaw in the years 2010 to 2015 concerning the acquisition of proceeds from the organization of the Arabian Horse Days in Janów Podlaski by a private entity to the detriment of companies of the State Treasury engaged in breeding Arabian horses supervised by the Agricultural Property Agency. I is the information concerning the acquisition of influence from the organisation of Arabian Horse Days in Janów Podlaski by a private entity to the detriment of companies of the State Treasury engaged in breeding Arabian horses and supervised by the Agricultural Property Agency. The CBA delegation's representatives in Lublin carried out a control on 4 March 2015 at the Agricultural Property Agency in Warsaw on 28 September 2015. Janów Podlaski Stud Sp. z o.o., Stud Michałów Koni and Małopolska Plant Breeding are companies of the State Treasury whose rights of participation are exercised by the Agricultural Property Agency. Their task is to farm animals of particular importance for the national economy, including Arabian horses, whose sale takes place annually during the Arabian Horse Days in Janów Podlaski. Polturf has been the organizer of Arabian Horse Days in Janów Podlaski since 2001 and the accompanying Pride of Poland horse auction. Agreement of 9 November 2001 between Janów Podlaski studs, Michałów and Białka and Polturf sp. z o.o. commissioned the organisation of the Arabian Horse Days within the time limit set between 1 and 31 August each year. If neither party terminates the contract within 30 days of the end of the last event, the contract shall be extended to the following year on the same terms. The first annex to the above-mentioned 2004 agreement concerns remuneration for horses sold on the basis of a categorical contract. The second annex, dated 2006, states that Barbara Mazur is the only organiser of the contract. In 2009, the organiser's remuneration was increased from 10% to 12%. the commission on the net sales price of each notified or catalogued horse and the minimum guaranteed remuneration for the organiser of 550 thousand PLN has been established. The new agreement was concluded on 15 March 2013 by the three studs concerned with Polturf, which was to receive a flat-rate remuneration of 12%. from the sum actually obtained from the sale of horses. On 3 March 2014, another agreement was concluded on the same terms with the possibility of extending it for the following years. This agreement was in force in 2015. Therefore, the event is operated by an intermediary who is selected in an uncompetitive manner, in principle it is merely an extension or conclusion of another agreement with Polturf, without looking for any other contractors. It should be noted that the terms of the contracts were very financially beneficial for Polturfu, which received all the proceeds from the sale of admission tickets and VIP passes, as well as from sponsor fees and many other fees associated with the organisation of the project. The additional agreement provided Polturf with a high commission on the value of horses sold by studs, thus reducing the revenue of state studs for breeding Arabian horses. It is worth pointing out here that in the contracts concluded the parties did not determine the upper amount of Polturf's revenue, and a commission of 12% has been established in a non-transparent manner. The Arabian Horse Days were held each year in the Janów Podlaski Horse Stud. Polturf, as the organizer of this event, used the stud premises without agreement until 2014. The Janów Stud issued an invoice charged to Polturf with PLN 15 thousand net for the use of the stud's premises and twice for the rent of boxing. In the accounts of the Arabian Horse Days, Polturf showed revenue from the organisation of this event in 2010 and 2014 of about PLN 10 million. The above revenues consist of: commissions from horse sales, VIP cards, sponsors, tickets, buy-ins, catalogues, passes, parking fees, hotels, commercial stands, journalistic accreditations. Anna Stojanowska In other words, the lady who speaks so nicely on TV and is an inspector... was the director of the Owner's Supervision Team at ANR during the explanation said: "The Agricultural Property Agency has no knowledge of Polturf's costs by preparing the Arabian Horse Days and how these costs are shown in the accounts. It seems to me that no team of the Agricultural Property Agency in the scope of the control did control the organization and settlement of the Arabian Horse Days. As the President of Leszek Świętochowski said during the explanation on 20 August 2015: During the Arabian Horse Days, the total proceeds from the sale of horses amounted to EUR 4 million 600 thousand. This means that Polturf received a commission of EUR 512 thousand, or PLN 2 million 140 thousand. He may wonder why the studs gave up the above mentioned receipts for this event and gave them to Polturf. This undoubtedly exposed the stud's finances to a loss of income from this prestigious event. It may also be surprising that both the studs and the Agricultural Property Agency paid for admission to their own event, the buy-in costs, the purchase of tickets and cards. They also paid for the organisation of stands promoting their own achievements. In this regard, it should be indicated from the inspection of NIK that in 2001 and 2012 the breeding of horses in studs supervised by the Agency resulted in losses of PLN 18 million. This is given in the information on the results of the inspection of NIK. On 9 October 2012, the Owner's Supervision Team presented a report on the ad hoc inspection of the Janów horse stud, which showed that the horse breeding in 2010 closed with a loss of PLN 125 thousand, in 2011 the loss amounted to PLN 879 thousand, and at the date of the inspection there was a loss of PLN 1 million 293 thousand. In addition to breeding of horses, the stud produces cattle, milk and plants which ultimately influences its positive financial performance. In the Central Anti-corruption Office's view, both the way the organizer is selected and the construction of contracts lead de facto to privatization of the world's Arabian Horse Days event, as well as taking over revenue from it, as well as 12% income from the sale of Arabian horses by studs. In summary, it can be concluded that the managers of the state studs in Janów Podlaski, Michałów and Białka signed agreements with Polturf in the years 2001 to 2015 containing economically unfavourable records for these studs. On the other hand, the ownership supervision carried out by the Agricultural Property Agency did not take any action to change the choice of the organiser of the above-mentioned event and the provisions of the agreements taking into account the economic interest of these studs. The information obtained by CBA indicates that one of the reasons for inadequate supervision of Polturf's contracts was the relationship between the company owner and the agency's employees. Recommendations: referral to the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development about the non-transparable, uncompetitive and economically unfavourable way in which studs conclude agreements on the organisation of Arabian Horse Days and financial settlements for this purpose, suggesting that staff changes be made to those responsible for the above issues; consideration... Well, that was the more important request. Ladies and gentlemen, I received a letter of this kind, the same or similar, and I did not find it in the Ministry of Sawicki, and that it was before 25 October, before the elections, so no action was taken. And it was, ladies and gentlemen, this sphere of mismanagement. This indicates that if a public officer, such as the Minister, receives such information, he should take appropriate action. I wanted to do it in a very honest, peaceful way. I have proposed that you leave the stud so as to take some corrective action, while taking into account other circumstances related to the fall of 1 mare in October. The circumstances were such that the mare was in the stud, the then president was in Italy, and it was found that there was no agreement to take care of this mare, the mare, so to speak, functioned free of charge in the stud, but the stud paid bills for treating this mare. I signed an agreement on which I state that false data were given, because here in one of the paragraphs it was stated that horses are healthy, therefore this agreement may be valid and at the same time in May or April were recorded in the records of breeding medical examinations that there are diseases. I'm no expert on disease names, but it happened. After Pianissim's mare fell, no action was taken to determine exactly what the reason for the fall was. It's not like we are. We did: Mr. Chairman in February, when two mares died, among others. Amra, he immediately asked the D.A.'s office to determine the reasons for the autopsy. Mom's autopsy results. There are also materials that are also in the D.A.'s office because we referred the case to the D.A.'s office in order to explain whether these falls were accidental or if there might have been other reasons. Also, I repeat, an autopsy has been performed. From this section of the corpse, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear how the care of horses was actually carried out. If anyone is interested and the senator has access to these materials, you can get acquainted with these materials. The other things we've raised are gene management, horse leasing abroad. In this respect, a report was sent to the prosecutor's office in connection with mismanagement. Thus, the prosecution's report concerned the mismanagement of horses in the area of foreign leasing. In the opinion of experts, Poland would lose its monopoly on being one of the best countries in the field of horse breeding in the last 10 to 15 years. Ladies and gentlemen, the President, who said that he had lost confidence in these gentlemen, asked me if they should be called off. Of course, the president answers... I found that such arguments, which have been given here, are evidence of a loss of confidence and, therefore, in accordance with the relevant article of the Commercial Companies Code, the gentlemen may have been distrusted and cancelled. So that today I appeal to the Senators of the Civic Platform: Gentlemen and ladies, take note of the facts. A little dignity. Because your management of things really looked very bad. I remind you that at the airport in Gdansk, the Prime Minister and I believe the president were dragging a plane with ropes that piloted Amber Gold's affair, and other things. Really, Mr. Senator, think a little bit about what you're saying, and then you'll be doing an evaluation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u164	Thank you very much. [[Mr. Marshal, Mr. Marshal...]] As legislative proposals have been tabled, I ask the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. [[Mr. Marshal!]] Yes, I'm listening. [[Mr. Marshal, may we refer to your words...]] [[Turn on the mike.]] [[It's on. Can we refer to the Minister's speech...]] [[Voice from the Chamber: You cannot, the discussion has ended.]] [[It's in writing.]] [[...because we weren't given this before? The minister came to the very end of the procession and we'd like to get at least five minutes for...]] [[Voice from the room: You can't, there's no such mode.]] Legislators tell me there's no such thing. Is that so? [[Voice from the room: Discussion is over.]] The discussion is over. [[Maybe on the way to the replica?]] I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on special arrangements for the protection of jobs and the Act on the protection of employees' claims in the event of insolvency of the employer. The text of the Act is contained in print No 162 and the report of the Commission In print No 162 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Alexander Swede, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u165	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report on the meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, which on 10 May 2016 worked on amending the Law on special arrangements for the protection of jobs and the Act on the protection of employees' claims in the event of the insolvency of the employer. As this is a parliamentary project, at the committee meeting the draft was presented by Mrs Bożena Borys-Szopa, and the government was represented by Deputy Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed. The essence of the proposed amendments is the alignment of the existing law on special arrangements for the protection of jobs with the legal status which is in force with the entry into force of the provisions of the Act of 15 May 2015 as of 1 January of this year. The amendment also provides for the removal of an obvious typographical error in the Act on the Protection of Employee Claims in the event of the insolvency of the employer. As far as the article is concerned. 1 of the amendment, it is necessary to replace the references to the provisions of the Act with references to the provisions of the Act of Insolvency and Remediation Law with references to the provisions of the Act of Insolvency. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 2 of the proposed amendment we are amending Article. Article 23 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 11 Act on the protection of employees' claims in the event of the insolvency of the employer, i.e. we correct the misrepresentation. The law was passed by the Sejm at the 17th session of the Sejm and was voted in favour of 440 Members, there were no votes against, 2 Members abstained. The opinion of both the government and the Legislative Bureau on the proposed changes is positive. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy also adopted the amendment unanimously at its meeting. I therefore also recommend to the High House that this amendment be adopted in the proposed form.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u166	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Hello, Minister Stanislaw Swede. Hello, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: There is no need for this.]] Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: a law on specific rules for the performance of certain tasks in the field of computerization of the activities of tax administrations, Customs and tax control. The text of the Act is contained in Print No 160 and the report of the Commission In print No 160 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Jack Włosowicz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u167	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will try to present you with a report, and I will discuss it in five points. In the first point, in a few words, I will talk about the situation, what is the matter to be regulated, and in the second point, I will talk about the purpose of the law that arises from the present state, in the third point I will present the method which was chosen, in the fourth I will talk about the opinions which the committee received, and in the fifth point about the decision of the committee. After a few years since the introduction of VAT in Europe, it turned out that there were some disadvantages involved. Those unworthinesss were also, unfortunately, criminal activities. The gaps in the law that led to the great shortfalls in the collection of this tax have been exploited. Different types of changes are therefore being made to prevent this. Such a change has also been made in our country during the previous term of office. I am thinking of introducing so-called for certain sectors. reverse VAT. In order to prevent this, this law is being introduced. It aims to develop both a new legal framework and the implementation of relevant ICT systems to support the detection of tax infringements. That's the purpose of this bill. Some countries have already applied these methods before us because they also have these types of VAT problems. The first was Portugal, and the next countries followed her, including our southern neighbours, Slovakia made such a choice. Of course, there are different ways of going to the third point of the statement. The task will be carried out. Maybe it's a government authority, a ministry, to do its own thing, it can order a program like this on the market. With us was proposed, the third method chosen was to create a special purpose company. Work on this solution has already started in the last term. In October last year, Minister Szczurek, when he was still a minister, talked about choosing a concept. Now she's been introduced to us. A special purpose company, a single-member company of the State Treasury in the form of a company from o.o. is to be established. She will be ordered to develop such a system. This is to last about 2 years, less than 2 years, so that next year, in 2017 this system is ready to be introduced. During the committee meeting, of course, we spent the most time discussing this method, why this one, not another. So far, there are no confirmed facts in Europe that this method is better than any other method. From point A to point B, you can take different paths, with us you have chosen and proposed this way. The Commission has received two opinions for this draft. One of these opinions was presented by the General Data Protection Officer and the other was the opinion of the Panoptykon Foundation. There is one kind of plea in law in both cases, namely that it is considered possible to create an unconstitutionality of the provisions of that law, since it will infringe the Article. 47 and Article 4 (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) The Commission has decided to adopt the law without amendment with one vote against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u168	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[Yes, Mr. Marshal.]] Senator Dowhan, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u169	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, aren't we worried that it's gonna be dangerous to get the system out of the resort in some way, give rise to any suspicion that this data is in the wrong hands or that it might be intercepted? Was that discussed? Is this gonna be secured somehow?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u170	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u171	Yeah, we talked about that. We also asked the Minister if this could happen. The agreement, which will be signed between the Ministry and this new company, as well as the total ownership of the State Treasury in relation to this company, is intended to ensure that these data are not distributed. In the opinions I presented, such question marks also appeared.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u172	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u173	Mr Marshal, Mr Senator, I have a question of whether during the committee's work on this project there was a broader discussion about the effectiveness of the application in the Polish tax system, as well as the European reverse VAT system and the risks arising from this.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u174	Yes, there have been such voices, Mr. Senator. This is a much broader discussion than only with regard to the presented project. Europe once chose a system to introduce value added tax. The arguments were such that it is not as heavy as turnover tax, which, for example, they are used by the United States of America. While there is a discussion in America as to whether to introduce VAT, there is a lot of reflection on whether, I would say, we do not come out of VAT. It is not possible to exit VAT as such in the European legal system, which also applies to us through the directives, but if we were to introduce ultimately inverted VAT throughout the system, we would have de facto as a turnover tax. Initiatives both in other countries and in our countries, e.g. In the last term, which the senator probably knows about, because he was a participant in this legislative process, they indicate that he is effective. However, is it possible to introduce reverse VAT throughout the system? I think the Minister could answer this question in detail. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u175	Thank you very much. I'm asking you for more questions. Senator Dowhan, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u176	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Is it true, Senator rapporteur, that the capital of the new company will be PLN 5 million? Will it be possible to build anything meaningful with such capital so that we can dream of greater revenue to the budget from the collection of VAT, for example?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u177	I'll answer that. I'll tell you first because I didn't tell you that this special purpose company was proposed because the situation is... Why isn't this done by the Ministry's forces? The arguments behind this are, I believe, typically practical, real, lifelike. Employing computer scientists with the right skills to perform this task efficiently and in good time exceeds the financial capacity of the Ministry in the sense of... It's about the salary per job. Specialists in this field simply will not take up work at the Ministry for the proposed rates. Yes, I confirm that there's a five-million-dollar offer. As far as the details are concerned, I would say that the future of this company, I believe that the Minister will be able to clarify the answer to your question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u178	Questions, please. Senator Dowhan again. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u179	I have one more question. I forgot to ask you right away. Are you guys setting up a time frame?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u180	Yeah, next year, actually autumn next year, if I remember correctly. I took it so that if this system is ready for next fall, then This is, of course, my interpretation of the possibility of its implementation into economic life would probably be from 1 January 2018. But this is, I repeat, my individual interpretation.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u181	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u182	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, short question: why is it not written in the text of the Act that it is a single-member company and that the shares are inalienable? [[The Treasury.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u183	I think it's written in the text of the bill, if I remember correctly, that it's going to be a company of the State Treasury. Art. 5 states that the Treasury... No, wait, wait... Mr. Senator, I can't answer that question right now. I think...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u184	Mr. Senator, can you answer that question, Minister? [[Yeah, yeah.]] [[Yeah, yeah, if the senator hadn't gotten angry, I'd have...]] [[Okay, okay.]] Thank you very much. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u185	Mr Marshal, Senator rapporteur, in that case, I understand when the above-mentioned IT projects you have mentioned will be carried out... We're talking about autumn next year. I expect all procedures to last a while. As I understand it, this special purpose company is only established for a specific purpose... [[Yes.]] ...that she will be tasked with this IT project, the completion of this operation. Is there a deadline? If it is assumed that these projects will be carried out next year Until when will this special purpose company be operational?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u186	Yeah, it's gonna work until then, and then it's gonna be solved. And the current... because it's known that a system that will be created, like everyone else, will need direct supervision, changes, because life will certainly bring some new elements. And that's gonna go to the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u187	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u188	So, as I understand it, you can't give a specific date, you can't say it's gonna be 2018, 2019...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u189	No. At the committee meeting, we learned that the intention is that this system should be ready in 2017. And, like I said, I personally told myself that... well, tax solutions should mostly be introduced for years. So my interpretation is that it will probably be from January 1, 2018. But if that's the case, the Minister can confirm or deny it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u190	No further questions. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you, Mr. Marshal.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? I cordially welcome Minister Leszek Skiba.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u191	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for taking care of this case. The bill discussed here is very important from the point of view of public finances, because its aim is simply to create, as you said, a special purpose vehicle, and this special purpose vehicle is to prepare an IT instrument, which can be called a central invoice register in short. And indeed, all these doubts that have arisen and will probably also appear in the questions, we have taken into account. Some doubts concern, for example, operationality, i.e. the reason why this form of creation of this IT instrument has been chosen. The answer is quite simple: this type of operation, the one-off preparation of the IT instrument, which is the central invoice register, is an extraordinary one-off procedure in the sense that at some point this construction will end, and then this project, this IT solution will appear, will be implemented in the Ministry of Finance and therefore the special purpose company will be dissolved; this is planned for 2018. But to be more efficient, to prepare this solution more quickly... And the pace of work is important because the gap estimated by the European Commission, as far as VAT receipts are concerned, is 40 billion PLN. By dividing this amount for each month, you can say that each month of delay Of course, assuming such efficiency of the project This is about PLN 3 billion less tax revenue. In this respect, from this perspective, time is important. It is difficult to say, to analyze, not to take into account the question of time due to the fact that there is such a high amount for each month. The idea of the Minister of Finance was that this product, this IT solution, was created as soon as possible, so that it could be used as soon as possible to increase tax revenue. For this reason, the special purpose company was considered as a solution guaranteeing quality, but also the pace of work, which is important. That's why the idea of creating such a solution seems to be the best. That is why we are not based on a multi-monthly and sometimes on a long-term development of such a solution by e.g. public institutions, because we can see, observing the experience of recent years, that public institutions, ministries are hard to cope with the development of IT projects. And this experience shows that if you really go back to the old railroad, you don't know if anything would happen by the end of your term, and it's important enough that it has to happen quickly. There are IT projects that were implemented in the Ministry of Finance, e.g. e-Taxes project. Experience from the implementation of these projects, observations, as they appear in practice, show that repeating this path will mean putting yourself immediately to failure, i.e. Repeating this path... The point is that these limitations, you can say, a little administrative and official, a little about the amount of wages for a relatively short period of time... These are the factors that make it necessary to look at this solution in a very different way, that we have to adopt, we can say, a radical solution, an extraordinary solution, so that the goal really is achieved, and this goal is to create at a fast pace In the test phase in 2017 and in the operational phase in 2018 the Central Register of Invoices. Maybe I'll stop there. I suspect there will be more questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u192	There'll probably be questions. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Do any of you senators want to ask a question? Senator Grabowski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u193	Mr Marshal, Minister, I would like to take this opportunity to ask, because here a few questions involved the establishment of a special purpose company, and the questions of the opposition senators concerned the schedule of work. Can the Minister present such a relatively binding timetable for the work of this company as regards the preparation, as the Minister pointed out, of the trial version of the software, I understand, linking the databases of the various entities, the broadly understood tax system? Then it's about the phase... Will the company still exist in the software testing phase? And will the company exist at the end software service stage? When does the Ministry of Finance plan to terminate the existence of the company? I would ask that the Minister present such a full schedule. I think that would explain quite a bit, and maybe these questions won't repeat themselves anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u194	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u195	Thank you very much. The plan is that, after the adoption of the law, I hope, in the coming days, after it has been signed by the President and published, in the following days at the latest on June 1, this will probably happen around June 1, the company's contract will be signed, i.e. the company will be established. Later, after signing, there is an operating moment in which the company is de facto created and starts to function, and there are the first... In the second half of this year, decisions will be taken regarding the employment of persons, cooperation with companies that can prepare some less important components, decisions on the purchase of a database engine as quickly as possible. This is an important element of the instrument, which is universal, standardised and is the ability to buy it simply from the company, it is much faster than creating your own tooling to the database. And at the same time, people employed in the company will prepare what is most important, i.e. this second element, the second IT module, such an analytical overlay, which allows analysis of the database, which will allow to draw any information and conclusions from this database. What is included in the Act, i.e. access to databases, is also important because it is necessary to prepare during this period the connection of this database module to databases that already exist in the Ministry of Finance, which is related to the functioning of... The data sets must be combined, analysed. And experience shows that it may take some time, too, but it won't last very long. The basic point is that some data sets have to be assigned, let's say, by categories related to the type of company or with any identification of the company, so that... In fact, the problem is that we are dealing with a number of databases in the Ministry of Finance, so that the database is functioning correctly so that it is actually well analyzed later, it simply has to be some kind of transparency and transparency when it comes to matching the data. So, yeah, building a database, buying a database, then sucking all the data from the databases that are in the Minister of Finance's hand, and an analytical overlay. At this point, this project should look like this. And this analytical overlay is a difficult solution, because it requires more than simple IT operations, here is the need for substantive support from the Ministry of Finance, i.e. the need to determine... This analytical overlay, this IT module, should allow us to learn from certain behaviours of companies. If we have an identified pattern of behaviour of companies Or a few patterns or a dozen or something. We can say that, for example. the pillar in the tax carousel is behaved in a given manner. Because this analytical overlay can create some kind of behavioral patterns, more data that will appear... This base will function in such a way that it will allow the Ministry of Finance to allow that if further data is sucked in the future, it will immediately be possible to determine in the case of new companies whether they fit a certain pattern, and if so, it will be an indication for tax control. And at a fast pace, I hope, within 5 minutes is the identification that a given company is, you can say, in the area of danger, i.e. you know you need to take a look at this company. That's the whole point. In fact, this central invoice register is an instrument that can only be used really and exclusively in the Ministry of Finance because it will later be used by the fiscal apparatus to properly, effectively and quickly identify those companies that are criminal. The idea is to go there as quickly as possible and reduce the scale of the losses of the State Treasury when it comes to criminal activities. So the human factor is incredibly important in this respect. So here's what I'm going to say: the six months we have now, from June 1st, this is the time that this company has to start preparing, it has to make purchases, it has to undertake to create an IT solution. We hope that the test phase will begin in the first half of 2017. I mean. There is already something, in the sense that there are already some sort of deleted channels, there is a database, and in this database there are well-located data from the Ministry of Finance and it all works well. There's been a first rehearsal. In general, there is an analytical overlay, but this analytic overlay is just, you can say, this essence of knowledge of people who know how to conduct criminal activities, so most of the time can take this to actually create this analytic overlay, this second module. We hope that around the second half of 2017, when the test phase is in place, it will be about checking whether this module works properly, what needs to be modified; there will be a series of trials and errors to make this solution actually work properly. 2018 is the time when the test phase ends. We assume that in 2018 we will already have the belief that this is a well-functioning IT module, that the analytical overlay clearly indicates the company and diagnoses which company is a criminal company and which is fair. During 2018, we should simply have the full conviction that this works correctly, that the works are completed, that the company is dissolved. That's more or less the schedule. Of course, we are still working on this schedule to clarify which months it will be. This timetable will, you can say, be accepted at the time when the company's agreement will be created; then the finance minister will be able to set a precise timetable for the company's authorities and simply require a certain pace and effect at a given time. Time is important; for this reason, this timetable set by the Minister of Finance at the time when the company is set up will be binding on the company's authorities. However, this is a framework, and there is still a question of clarification, which part of 2018 is the moment of putting into service and how long before the first effects of this prototype occur, the solution of this analytical module. I assume that's half of 2017, but in general it's a schedule. It will be presented during the establishment of the company.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u196	Thank you very much. There are two questions from Senator Czerwinski that have passed from the rapporteur. Mr. Senator, maybe I'll ask you to repeat it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u197	Mr. Marshal, Minister, the first question is kind of related to the idea itself, but maybe we should move on. On the other hand, what was addressed to the Senator of the rapporteur concerns why... At least I didn't find here in the text that it's a single-member company and that the shares are non-negotiable. It would just calm us down. We use the commercial code, and the code allows the sale of shares. Where does it say you're not gonna sell those shares?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u198	If this is about a one-man partnership, it's... I mean. a much more important question is the inalienability of the company's shares. In the original project, which was prepared at the Ministry of Finance, there was this record. During the intergovernmental consultations, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs stated that this provision is incompatible with European law because it violates the freedom of activity... violates economic freedom in the sense that it is a restriction on acquisition. There is no intention on the part of the Minister of Finance to sell this company, but we have been informed that it is technically impossible to write it down because it will be against European law. Therefore, only the intention and declaration of the Minister of Finance remain. We simply learned from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that it is not possible to maintain such a record.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u199	I'm so sorry. If you don't mind, I'll be asking questions, Mr. Marshal, because that's... [[Yes, yes, please.]] I'll admit you haven't calmed me down right now, Minister, but you've bothered me even more. Because that would mean that, according to European law, everything we create must be open to any external activity. So if I create a partnership, do I have to sell her shares? Sir, I'd like you to deliver this opinion to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in writing to the Senate. Okay? If possible.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u200	Of course. We have a document. Yes. [[Is that your opinion?]] I mean, it's... Just pay attention... I'm sorry, I'll answer. It is not that entities should be forced to sell their shares, shares in shares, but that the position of the foreign minister was such that the legal regulation of any economic operator could not create restrictions on marketability and that such a restriction of marketability, such a formal restriction of marketability is precisely a breach of European law. We were obliged to accept... 'Cause I remind you of this. In our original project, this record was in line with the senator's intention. And therefore, of course... We will make this argument so that it is indeed clear. I would like to repeat and stress: the fact that in this original project this provision of inalienability was, represents such an intention that this company is a special purpose company, is to prepare or, as it were, to achieve the objective, namely to create a central register of invoices. And when the target is reached, we hope that in 2018 the company will be dissolved. And there shouldn't be any disposal here, because that's not the intention. It's not a company... It is an economic activity and the company is to deal with something else. And, of course, it's better to guarantee that than to hear only the declarations of the Minister of Finance, but unfortunately it's not by our will that there is no such record.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u201	You're welcome. [[If I may, two more questions.]] I'm sorry, but maybe... Because you also volunteered for Senator Klein. [[Oh, good.]] Maybe we should make a trade. Mr. Senator Klein. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u202	Mr Marshal, High Izbo, during the discussion at the committee meeting, we have basically explained most of the doubts and, as for these difficult problems, we find some understanding for them. But then I asked the Minister for information as well. And I didn't hear it here in your speech. On the effect of the regulations introduced, the aim of which was to prevent VAT fraud, etc. So the laws that we adopted in our previous term of office regarding reverse VAT, joint and several liability... what was the effect of these laws? Is there a positive effect on the impact of the VAT changes on the State budget as a result of the adoption of these laws? The second doubt, the big, the most serious, raised during the discussion at the committee meeting, is a problem related to the protection of personal data. This case was, so to speak, analyzed. The Minister has also declared that he will examine this matter very carefully and will consider whether this problem, which the Legislative Office draws attention to... should not be edited in some other way in order to make the data that the company will receive more non-nominated. In your opinion, isn't this a problem here? But first, the first issue: the financial consequences of previous regulations.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u203	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u204	Thank you very much. With regard to actions taken in recent years with regard to VAT, this is a kind of so-called. reverse charge mechanism, but also a guarantee deposit. As far as the reverse charge is concerned, in fact at three moments a burden was imposed on different categories of goods: in 2011 it was scrap and greenhouse gas emission allowances; in 2013 it was additional goods from the group of scraps, but also some other copper waste and a wide range of steel products, among others. the largest, most important group, i.e. steel rods; and in 2015 this is gold and electronics, among others. mobile phones, smartphones, tablets, notebooks, laptops, gaming consoles, as well as non-ferrous metals not worked. And it's just that we're dealing with, you could say... In general, the effect of the reverse load mechanism is positive. Of course, there are a few problems because the reverse load works effectively in a situation where the last seller is 100% convinced that, you can say, there is no doubt that it hits the consumer. Because, in fact, you can say, the problem with the reverse charge is that when someone sells goods to another trader, VAT is not paid by the buyer, and when the product is sold to the final consumer, the consumer should pay for the goods with VAT. And there is a phenomenon of impersonating consumers into companies. In this sense, it is, you can say, a gap in the reverse VAT mechanism, and it cannot, however, be a complete antidote to the VAT problem. Generally speaking, in these categories of goods, in some sense this problem is solved because consumers generally rarely buy steel bars or scrap. Especially here are some attempts to improve, pointing to a certain limit, which creates a hope that consumers do not actually buy these goods above such a limit, and therefore impersonating a company is less likely. But in general, this solution, this inverted burden, has produced results. We've got some analysis. This is the largest one ordered by the Ministry of Finance from the second half of last year by CASE; this is a rather broad analysis which concerned the assessment of this part, especially introduced in 2013, namely steel chips and scrap. And the estimates are this: the effect is estimated at PLN 432 million. So the impact on VAT receipts in these areas is positive. It can be said that, on the other hand, there is awareness that these tax carousels, these criminal groups, are going through solutions adopted in one area to another. So this is so, you can say that in the case of one commodity the situation will improve, and in the case of another, it will worsen. But in general, there is a slight improvement per balance, which really means that it is a beneficial solution in emergency situations. Except it's a little bit like that, you might say, the game of cat and mouse, which is that there's a new problem... And we are hearing complaints from entrepreneurs who see the emergence of excessively cheap goods in some areas. For this reason, all the more important are the solutions that we are discussing today, which is such a systemic change. In some sense, it is the institution's solution which was introduced, i.e. the extension of joint and several liability. On the one hand, it has negative consequences for entrepreneurs who see that they accidentally have a transaction with an entrepreneur who is a criminal, and joint responsibility means that they bear, you can say, the consequences of the criminal activity of someone they did not know about and who they could not suspect was a criminal. This means, in fact, that this solution is unpopular; for this reason it is not preferred in the Ministry of Finance. In general, some form of preventive action in this area was visible, but at the same time there were negative effects for honest entrepreneurs who do not have some problems because of their own fault, because they simply have some transactions with criminals. Well, this is a very serious matter that raises big doubts as to whether this instrument is really useful. Guarantee bonds also help to solve some of the problems, and generally this solution is considered to be beneficial. But they're not really, you can say, system solutions, and that's their greatest weakness. Although I would like to point out that they have had some effect.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u205	Thank you very much. Senator Rusiecki, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u206	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. The Minister has solved some of my doubts. Because I would just like to talk about the use of reversed VAT from the point of view of the city's inhabitants, where there is a steelworks steel and where, first of all, steel is produced from scrap, second, it is mainly the steel used in the construction industry. I'd like to ask you about this context... Because, first of all, the decision of the finance minister at the beginning of the year, which caused the reverse VAT to continue to apply as if it had calmed down the entire steel industry. Second, however, there were discussions among experts that we should... I was just asking the Senator rapporteur what is the effectiveness of the reverse VAT, and I meant whether it should be abandoned, or whether it is currently the dominant position of such thinking to apply it, because it gives rise to some positive solutions. I mean, the changes that have been made in recent years. And the question is... In the steel industry, where it is produced honestly and sold honestly, is waiting for further sealing. Will the IT system in question allow it to be sufficiently effective that such drastic situations will no longer occur? And there's also the question of how all of this will improve profitability and the state budget. Because I hope that this is also a very important application of this tool, that it will positively increase revenue to the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u207	I'm asking for an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u208	Thank you very much. Yes, we are aware that the reverse load in these areas is working, and there is really no reason that until the system solution is introduced... Because the assumption is that new methods that... The development of IT solutions is carried out in most European countries. In fact, the main problem of VAT, as can be said in general, if you look at VAT structurally, is the problem of zero rate in exports and imports, while at the same time quite easy when it comes to trade within the European Union. This is so that VAT fraud takes place both in export and import operations. This zero rate is precisely such a gap, such as, you can say, a hole in the VAT system in general. In a situation where we are dealing with Community trade. Because, please note, at customs borders, with regard to controls of goods at borders with countries outside the European Union, such a problem does not actually occur or occur to a limited extent. In fact, this is a problem in intra-Community trade, the problem of this zero VAT rate. The European Commission is trying to solve this problem, but... excuse me, so I will answer the senator's question a little more broadly. The Commission notes the need for VAT reforms, even points out that the zero rate should ultimately be eliminated. A month ago, the European Commission prepared a document called action plan, an action plan aimed at this direction. And it actually looks promising. However, I would point out one problem: that such a change requires an incredible improvement of the tax administration. Because the goods that are exported from a country of low quality public administration to a country of higher quality public administration... Such an operation involves that each country, you can say, collects VAT at all stages as added value increases, and then it is transferred just to the country of final consumption. In the situation, I will go back to the example I was talking about. When we are dealing with a country with low administrative efficiency, where it is, say, a higher gray zone indicator, etc., this country does not collect full VAT to pass it on to the country of final consumption, a country of higher quality administration. And the other way around, it's already working. Therefore, this is a logical argument that arises during discussions in working groups of officials from the ministries of finance of different countries, namely that the condition for resolving this problem is to improve the tax administration in countries that are considered to be inefficient. Now the question is, will this happen soon? There may be some doubts about this, which in fact means that IT improvements may need to be made. So we have a real dilemma. There is such a conclusion that at a time when administrations will already be so efficient, endowed with IT solutions quickly identifying companies that cheat, this zero VAT will no longer be necessary, because this problem is already a little or to a large extent, one can say, solve. In general we think that we note that these goals are very distant and these benefits are very conditional, very dependent on an incredible effort not only from the Polish administration but also from abroad. It is therefore important to deal with these conditions that are. We do not have a very optimistic approach that something will change in the VAT regulations in Europe quickly, especially since the VAT Directive requires unanimity. The reversed VAT is a solution, but a temporary one. However, the most important are the system solutions, i.e. the creation of an instrument in which effective administration is able to quickly locate those companies that are. At the same time, the Ministry of Finance, which is worth paying attention to, is working on solutions that will be coming up soon. This month they will be transferred to internal government work, which aims to ensure that in some sense they seal this category of companies that are VAT-eaters. The current easy entry, too easy entry into a group of VAT companies gives rise to temptation, because it is easy to create a pole, and then all these problems arise, for example in the steel industry. It is therefore necessary to take such practical action by the administration. However, in order for the administration to act quickly, it must have a set of data. The best solution would be a central invoice register, because it would provide fast access to business data. It works in such a way that it indicates that this and this company is risky in the sense that it should be subject to scrutiny, because the procedure, the various data that come from this company, matches a pattern. That's the mechanism. I don't know if I answered... [[There are still revenue implications for the budget.]] Oh, there's still the budget implications. Currently, the VAT gap is estimated by the European Commission at 25%, slightly more than 25% VAT receipts. So... [[In Poland or Europe?]] In Poland. Over 25%. The aim of this project is to reach the European average, close to the European average, which is about 15%, within 3 years. Reducing the VAT gap at this level really means an increase in revenue between 20 and 30 billion PLN. This is generally the scale of the benefit. This is due to the fact that the VAT gap has actually 2 main roots. The first source is criminal activity, and that's most of it, reaching, let's say, close to 60%. Anyway, that's part of the analysis, and the second source is the gray zone. For this reason, I thank the senators once again very much for supporting the bill, which limited non-cash payments to PLN 15 000, because the grey zone is also an important, of course not a dominant but an important part. And here we were hoping that this solution... It refers to this second source of deficiency. The central register of invoices is important because the fight against the grey zone is a longer process. Nowhere in the world has there been a rapid reduction in VAT deficiency, and in the case of IT solutions good results come quickly. There are many countries, not just Portugal, where... If we look at the IT solutions of one of the US companies used in Russia, we will note that despite the recession and the decline in GDP, VAT revenues have remained at a pretty good level, which is, you can say, incompatible with the observed trend that, as growth is slowing down, VAT revenues are always falling. And there they remained, which shows success, benefits from the use of IT solutions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u209	Thank you very much. Senator Czerwinski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u210	Mr Marshal, Minister, you are still using European estimates about our VAT gap. Do you have any estimates? Did anyone at the ministry ever think about that? If they're fresh... did you do it or did you do it in the previous government? Will these possible estimates be used for the construction of this analytical overlay? That's the first thing. And the other thing. I have some doubts, Minister, although of course I do not deny the purpose of fighting the grey zone, with this VAT gap. On the contrary, because the later, the worse... It's been six months. If that's 3 billion a month, that means 18 billion, so to speak, we're in the back, theoretically, of course. The question is: is this the best tool for this project? Please note that this is a tool probably the most distant in terms of decision-making and influence of the Minister of Finance. Wouldn't it be better if... I understand that there are problems with paying. Wouldn't it be better to just hire the right IT specialists at the Ministry of Finance and pay them accordingly, top those rates and give them the stability of employment? Why? Because such a project will have to be preserved, new data will have to be introduced there, the analytical overlay will have to be developed, etc. We agree on that. Right? For example, in order to be able to train possible target users in the Ministry of Finance, there must be someone employed fairly permanently. Wouldn't it be easier to just hire the right people at the Ministry of Finance and pay them high enough? Another thing about it, too. A partnership with O.O. There is, then she's gone, and the employees of this company are becoming free people. Please note that they will have to have access to the data that you already have in your databases, and that to aggregate data, they will aggregate this data. In order to test this analytical overlay, you will need to enter, backwardly of course, data that you need to show us whether this overlay is effective, whether it actually selects a potential criminal circle or a potential circle of interest in the Ministry of Finance. We agree on that. Also, please note, the authors of this analytical cover will still have it in their head, after all, they will be the creators of it. The method of making this overlay will be one of the most wanted goods on the market. Knowing a tool that can detect tax fraud... Let's call it a simple text: you have to adapt so as not to be subject to this tool. Are we okay with that? So, Minister, explain to me why you have chosen a formula that I think is the least connected to the authors of this tool with the place where this tool will be used in the end. What's it like in other countries? Or have they chosen such... Because in other countries such tools already exist. Or were these IT projects selected, I don't know, companies, external entities, or was it created within, let's assume, the ministries there?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u211	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u212	Thank you very much. I'll start at the end. Most countries actually prepare such solutions somehow in the form of a public institution, that is done by some public entities. But another example that we can refer to is the United Kingdom, where this solution is similar, in the sense that there is a separate company. And this is a similar mechanism that was adopted there. And here's the thing... Complete agreement: are we absolutely aware of the dangers associated with what the senator said? Please pay attention to our way of thinking in the sense of answers... Because it's actually a serious threat in terms of safety. First of all, we're dealing with... Isn't the finance minister in control? There are certain regulations in the Act that indicate that, in fact, he chooses the Supervisory Board and the Supervisory Board may interfere with the operation of the Boards to a greater extent than in the normal company k.s.h. So it's like this interference... The powers of the Minister of Finance are attached to the guidelines. And in that sense, from this point of view, the impact is strong. And now I'm going to talk about this trouble, about the issue that the senator was talking about. The assumption is that, and this is defined in the form of a law which applies not only in this law, but in general the right that persons who have access to such sensitive data should have a certificate of access to information on the relevant classification. Of course, if this instrument was created in the Ministry of Finance or in a special purpose vehicle, then either here or here, there must be a person who creates these solutions, and she must receive a certificate of access. And this is some sort of control from the Secret Service. Both in the special purpose company and in the case of the solution created, let's assume, in the Ministry of Finance, these must be suitable places. In a special purpose company, these sensitive things will be located in institutions, let's call it security. It's not gonna be the usual area, company headquarters in some office building, etc. And we're already having a conversation about that. As for the Ministry of Finance, of course you can assume that this place is safe. Do we have a greater guarantee that an employed person who is working on this project and who, let's assume, would work at the Ministry of Finance, will not quit and will not start selling information about some modules on the city? I have great doubts as to whether, in fact, by guaranteeing access to public information, the supervision of the special forces will ensure that this place, these premises are secured to an appropriate degree. In both cases, I feel like there's no big difference here. A situation in which someone who wants to trade such information may arise both in the case of a special purpose vehicle and in the case of an official who, unfortunately, cannot be forced to sign a commitment to work in the Ministry of Finance for 20 years and to not be able to leave and work in a new place of work. So I don't know if there's a big advantage here when it comes to security issues. It's important that the law is enforced. It's about proper control, the right way to organize this process. We're aware of that. A certain security is that we minimize the number of places, you can say, and creation processes in which someone who participates in such a process has a broader picture, so that everyone only does a piece. And thanks to this, the fact that someone can only see a piece of the trial does not lead to the fact that such a person has some broad enough knowledge to sell this knowledge to criminals. It is therefore important to plan, ensure the oversight of security services, and to plan such a process, so that simply the minimum number of people who have the knowledge that they can do something wrong with this knowledge is minimal. So I hope that this is how my answer will satisfy the senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u213	Senator Włosowicz, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u214	Minister, such a brief question. We know the Slovaks have already done it. So can't you just buy it from them, or at least the part about the database itself, which must provide retention with probably a lot of billion invoices, and the analytical part that will cause, among other things. Synchronization with other parts, with other databases that you already have If it were so different or if these systems were different and could not be bought Just do it? Wouldn't that be faster?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u215	Yeah, we're watching Slovak... We are in close contact with the Slovaks, but I suspect that if the Lithuanians came to us and wanted to buy this mechanism from us, we would not be happy and would not want to sell, to get rid of something that is actually sensitive in this respect. I just have so much experience that they obviously show how it works, but for them this mystery is important enough to sell it is impossible, because they treat it as very important information. These patterns are similar to what Senator Czerwiński was talking about, which is just some kind of solution that, if they are revealed, is a loophole in the system, because it is not so effective... We'll have to work for a while to patch this gap. So that here we are already meeting with some kind of limitation at the level of the state's state's secrecy.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u216	Senator Klein, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u217	Minister, I will return to this VAT gap, to the 40 billion PLN. This is the opinion of the European Commission. The senator asked what our estimates were, because that would be interesting, but at the same time he asked if they were similar. And it was also a question of whether these data are old or new, present. There was another question about that... Because the Minister said he wanted to make it to the EU average, which is 15%. - Yeah? - Mm-hmm. We now have 25% according to the European Union, and this is 40 billion PLN according to the calculations given by the Minister. If we reach 15% Then 30 billion of this amount of PLN 40 billion... How did these calculations come out to the Minister that there were 30 billion, and we want to reach 15% In the meantime, there's 25%. ? I may be the one who made the mistake of thinking logically, but it doesn't seem right to me.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u218	Sure. Excuse me, I've actually simplified, I've given you an amount that also applies to... This amount of 20 and 30 billion applies not only to VAT in this area, but also to the grey zone and the reduction amounts, to narrow the gap even in CIT tax, that is true. So, yes, in fact, when it comes to the solution itself. I remember that. There are 13 billion zlotys written here in the year... I remember, in the OSR, yes, it's 13 billion 600 million in the third financial year, which is 2019. And this value is directly related in this sense... These are the amounts included in the impact assessment of the regulation. So in the first year there are 1 billion 400 million, in the second year there are 3 billion 400 million, and in the third year there are 13 billion 600 million PLN. [[It's the effect of this bill...]] That's the effect of the bill, yes. This is the effect of this law, and maybe I'll stop at it just to be precise. I'll get back to the question, because it's actually very good... Excuse me, I forgot about that question, and it's actually very good. When it comes to counting the VAT gap, this is a very difficult thing, because really these calculations, you can say... The VAT gap can be calculated by two methods: based on macro data or micro data. These calculations are actually based on macro data. So we're dealing with relatively broad data aggregated within certain national accounts that counts CSOs and says that gross domestic product is like this, individual consumption, investment at this level, and then disaggregates this consumption into some categories of goods in different industries. We're dealing with some kind of GUS estimate based on basically... notice how GUS works. If you think about where GDP from GUS is coming from, it will turn out that this is based on a survey of companies. It is a kind of set of activities, of course very professional in terms of methodological supervision, among others. Eurostat, but these are some survey estimates, and this word estimate is very important. This means, in fact, that the more this is aggregated, the greater the risk of error that we know exactly that the gross value added in such a industry, and not the other one, is just like that and not different. Because please note that when it comes to the declarations on which GDP is based, the smaller the company in general, the less likely that this company will fill out this declaration well and indeed these data are reliable. Therefore, these estimates are also relevant here. I would point out that it is difficult to estimate the VAT gap at macro level because we really need to believe in some estimates that are from the CSO and which are based on the declarations entered by companies. For this reason, there may be doubts as to where this VAT gap is, in fact, in which sectors, whether in the furniture sector, or in the scrap trading sector, etc. These data are less reliable, we're aware of that. In general, this amount could be, let's say, considered something like this... Our estimate is that it's real, but they're real. It's more meticulous, the more uncertain she is. I think it would be best if you noticed, based on the micro data. The problem in Poland is that current reporting by companies and a set of available data, which have public institutions in their hands, do not allow for a good estimate. Because what does it mean that we should know exactly what the receipts and VAT shortfalls are, e.g. in the field of scrap metal? We should know all the transactions in which the goods sold are scrap metal, count the transactions, count what VAT should be, check the receipts specifically from this product, and have this information: transactions in the case of this product are like this, should be such a tax, and it has been paid in such a amount, and have it for all categories of goods. But there's no record of that. I'm just saying, there's no such thing as data. Only the creation of IT solutions, e.g. encourage entrepreneurs to send each invoice to the central invoice register, so that they can actually check the aggregate value of the transaction in a given commodity category, expect, what are the VAT receipts, and assign these VAT receipts. In addition, there is a question about individual consumption, i.e. consumption, something that is between the company and the consumer, namely retail sales. This will not be in the central invoice register and will be here, you can say, also an incomplete picture of the information. The optimal solution would be to supplement this with data that would actually come simply from what we see every day on the receipt, so that we can actually calculate that in Poland some goods are sold, e.g. water not gassed, in some amount, because this results from data Now there is no instrument for such data to be collected in the Polish country, and such a tax should be collected and VAT assigned to the goods has arrived, and we do not have such information, because in the current structure it is not entirely known where this VAT is actually from.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u219	Thank you very much. No questions. Thank you, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Leszek Skiba: Thank you very much.]] [[Voice from the room: A letter for Senator Czerwinski...]] I'm opening a discussion. Senator Dowhan is the first.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u220	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Dear Senators, I very much like this substantive discussion, because it uses a lot of arguments. I will vote, Minister, for this bill, although I have some doubts. First of all, I don't know if there's any point. creating a completely new company so that this company does something that they do today. tax offices. There was even a question here, probably from Senator Czerwinski... There are people in tax offices who are qualified, trained, who know very well the mechanisms associated with tax turnover. Wasn't it worth it to focus these activities on the fact that these new people were working at tax offices or customs offices, so as not to overly expand this base? But if you think this is a good solution that works in other countries... Well, why don't you try it. This huge VAT hole that doesn't affect us causes... You ask for this system to be sealed. If this huge sum of twenty-six billion comes back, even in some part, we will all think that this is the success of this new company and its people. However, I have concerns about security, as has been said many times here. Are these new people gonna be so connected to this company that they're not gonna pull this data outside, they're not gonna operate on it? I mean, even if the civil service that trained people were working in was shutting down, taking their vows and being connected to their work... Would putting this, I would say, in the outside hands have a good effect? Let's hope it doesn't happen that people will do anything for money to pull this data out and use it. Let's hope it doesn't happen that the rotation of people is going to be very big. We know what the remuneration is for private companies and what the remuneration is for companies that employ offices. Let's hope people don't get into knowledge, learn that, and in a minute, the company will leave and go somewhere else. A valid factor is always remuneration, and, as we know, remuneration in companies with the participation of the State Treasury cannot be fully regulated on the market. And that's what I'm worried about. I have data on, for example, the UK, which introduced such a system in 2010. It paid off very well. The influences have increased several times. I hope it's the same for us. I'm worried we don't know the name of this company today. Unless I missed something. And its capital is only PLN 5 million. With that kind of capital, you can't really do anything. Neither is the board of directors nor the board of directors known for today. If the legislation is aimed at limiting the gray area... I will not agree with the Minister here that one of the determinants is voted out here a week ago to limit transfers. It would be best if we didn't use money at all, because the money is very expensive for the state and, above all, for those who use it. Just storage, driving, counting money costs a lot. And it is also difficult to say no to this group of people who sometimes, occasionally in different situations, will want to make a purchase for an amount of more than 15 thousand PLN and will, of course, make it, and not throw it at themselves... It met with protests, for example, companies that operate in transportation, because sometimes you have to fix the car, there is no time to make a transfer, there are weekends, and no one will take it when they don't have a real cashu in their hands. I think these are occasional situations that are worth leaning over, but it is also not worth destroying the whole system that you are building. I think it is worth trying, risk taking these measures, so that this VAT at least in some part of our country stays at our disposal and is at the disposal of our country. So I'm definitely Robert Dowhan to vote for this bill. Thank you. [[Very good.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u221	Please take the floor of Senator Kleina.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u222	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The problem which is described today by the Act is close to us, and we have discussed a lot on this subject and in the previous terms and in previous terms. The matter is really important and serious. The attempts we made in the previous term to eliminate VAT fraud are effective, and the Minister also spoke about them, because the amount of PLN 0.5 billion last year is a significant amount. Of course, it would be small if we had only a picture of 40 billion PLN through our eyes and thought that now that we have introduced this law, the gap or tax fraud in the VAT system will disappear. Fortunately, the Minister said that such a perfect system could not be created. The law itself, which we are adopting, assumes that in the initial period of its operation these additional influences will not be as large as some even in this room imagined when they thought that this additionally a month would come into effect 2 billion zlotys of VAT. The first effect may be, as the Minister said, PLN 1 billion 300 million per year, somewhere within these limits. So even if this law, which I hope will work, will start to function, it is not possible to eliminate all abuses in the VAT system. Moreover, for a good cause, the extent of these abuses is not entirely known either. That's speculation. The operation of PLN 40 billion is also not entirely true and seems to me a bit abusive, also in relation to many thousands of Polish entrepreneurs, who pay VAT fairly, pay taxes and have contacts with reliable entrepreneurs. I think you just have to really look at the possibilities, the effects of everything you want to bring in here. When we discussed at the committee meeting, we had the most doubts about how to organise the system of invoice records, i.e. the establishment of a special company. Mr. Senator Czerwiński paid attention. It's a good thing it's from Law and Justice. In principle, the essence of this problem and the doubts that arose with the Senators of the Civic Platform, not only the Civic Platform, but also with the Senators of Law and Justice. The point is that we operate here a little bit in such a way that we repair with not exactly good tools a system that functions. It seems that the most rational solution would be to establish such a cell permanently within the Ministry of Finance, well paid, because the key, the reason for the creation of this company is mainly the pay issue. So you'd have to change... That's the question. or a request to every government. The idea is to change the funding system in the public administration so that it is possible to finance differently those tasks that the administration carries out and which are specific, unusual, find another way of paying. I think this company... Today we are talking about the fact that it will be created, will do its job and will be eliminated. Well, it's unlikely. However, it seems that he will need some team of IT specialists or specialists in this area, which we are talking about, to function permanently in the Ministry of Finance. After all, the situation will change, new threats will emerge, which we are not even able to predict today. If we enter certain criminal elements and they are eliminated, there will be new threats, new ideas from criminals, because this is a normal matter. We, implementing the Tax Act... about reverse VAT, which means steel rods, also mentioned this to the senator... After all, this case has been limited to some extent, even to a considerable extent, but, as the Minister said, criminals are jumping into another area, looking elsewhere for ideas as to how certain systems can be avoided. Therefore, the problem of creating this company in my opinion is just an idea. The Minister pointed out at the committee meeting, he said: but you Speaking of us, you also created special companies about the Civic Platform. And the minister gave an example of a company building a stadium, that was an example of how we were We did. I myself had serious doubts about this company, but after all, the Law and Justice officials criticized it completely as a bad solution, didn't they? So today, our seemingly bad solution should not very much be invoked, because we need to create better and good solutions. And I would like all of this to work well so that it actually has the effect that this VAT will have a fair impact on the state budget. But I would also ask you not to think that there will be a miracle here, that now, as some say, and in many statements, it's repeated, and some media are also talking about it. The additional PLN 2 billion in VAT per month will be influenced by this type of action. There must be many, various, various actions, there must be many activities of tax offices, of every private tax office employee, including entrepreneurs, so that the effect is greater, positive. Since Senator Dowhan As Senator of the Civic Platform Club, he also said that we want to support this law, I think we want to support it and we want to see what the effect of adopting this law will actually be. A Serious Doubt The Minister did not talk about this, but we will leave this to be discussed in a different situation. The question I asked about was, but the Minister did not answer, it was about the protection of personal data. There were serious objections to the transfer of these cases... Let's see how this all works in practice. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u223	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Messages, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u224	The meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the examination of applications announced at the 18th Senate meeting to the Act amending the Act on Horse Races, No 159, will take place on 19 May at 8.10 p.m. in room 217. Meeting of the Committee on the Environment for the purpose of considering the Law on the completion of the construction of the Swinna Poręba water reservoir, Senate printing No 171, will take place tomorrow, i.e. On 19 May 2016, at 8.15 p.m. in room 176.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-senat-18-1.u225	I'm declaring a recess until 9:00 tomorrow. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 15 minutes 08]]
