ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u1	Resume session. I'm sorry, ladies and gentlemen... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] I think we're gonna need a bigger ringtone... I ask Members to take their seats. I would like to appoint Catherine Osos, Piotr Łukasz Babiarz, Krzysztof Kubow and Łukasz Schreiber to the secretaries of today's proceedings. Piotr Łukasz Babiarz and Krzysztof Kubów will be in the first part of the session. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Piotr Łukasz Babiarz and Katarzyna Osos. I ask the Member to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u2	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Education, Science and Youth - hour 9.15, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 9.30 a.m., - Health-- hour. 9.30 a.m., - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 10, - Public Finance together with the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development - h.m. 10, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 10.30, - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 10.30, - Extraordinary for changes in codification - hour. 10.30, - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 12, - to the European Union in conjunction with the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, at 3 p.m. 12, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 12, - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 13, - National and Ethnic Minorities - hour. 13, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 13, - National Defense at 5 p.m. 14, - Constitutional responsibility - h.m. 14, - Culture and Media - hour 15, - Foreign Affairs - hour 15, - to Energy and Treasury - hour. 3.30 p.m., - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 3.30 p.m., - Public Finance - hour. 16, - Infrastructure - hour 16, - Senior policy - h.m. 16, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 16. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Mining Team - h.m. 10, - Parliamentary Group for: Solutions to Drug Addiction Problems - hour 10, - Parliamentary Group for: modernisation of national roads 51 and 57 together with the Parliamentary Panel on modernisation of national roads 58 and 63 and the Parliamentary Panel on modernisation of road 59 and S16 - hour 10, - Parliamentary Group for: solving problems of the inhabitants of Poland and Poland - h. 11, - Parliamentary Group for: Oncology - hour 12, - The Members' Team for the New Constitution - at 5 p.m. 12, - Parliamentary Group for: Economics and social entrepreneurship - hour 12, - Parliamentary Group for: Patients' rights - hour 14, - Parliamentary Team for Supporting Entrepreneurship and Economic Patriotism - h.m. 15, - Parliamentary Group for: Organisation for Health Protection - h.m. 16, - Parliamentary Women's Group - at 10 p.m. 17, - Euro-realistic Parliamentary Group - hour 5:30 p.m., - National Democratic Parliamentary Team - h.m. 18, - Lubuskie Parliamentary Team - at 10 p.m. 6:30.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u3	Thank you very much. The group of Members submitted a draft act on the National Media Council and a revision of certain laws contained in print No 592. At the meeting of the Seniors Convention, objections were raised to the completion of the agenda for the first reading of the project. This is, according to art. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the I will put this item to the vote on the proposal to complete the agenda. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of The adoption of the proposal to supplement the agenda will mean that the Sejm has agreed to the application of the Article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. You have come forward with your formal conclusions. Mrs Joanna Schmidt, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm filing a formal request for a break for the modern club, an hour's break. [[Applause]] Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, there was just a meeting of the Senior Convention at which we learned that you are likely to vote in favour of a draft law on the Council of National Media. It is a very important law that can cause many emotions. We do not agree that today - and the printing number was given yesterday - work on this project at midnight, between hours. 10:30 a.m. and 1:00 a.m. We're asking for a break for the club because we need to discuss this issue among ourselves. An hour's rest is necessary. [[It's gonna be late! He'll be here by the hour. 3.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u5	Thank you. The formal proposal was submitted by Agnieszka Pomaska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u6	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, As the High House still does not know the opinion drawn up by the European Commission, the opinion on the rule of law, I request that this meeting be kept secret, because I feel that this opinion may be secret in some way and that is why the Prime Minister cannot share it with us. I wanted to justify it. After a meeting with Vice-President Timmermans of the European Commission, the Prime Minister said: Of course, we, as a member of the European Union, are always ready for dialogue, to inform about the steps we are taking. It was after that meeting. Prime Minister Szydło is ready to inform the Vice-President of the European Commission. The Prime Minister is not ready to inform about her actions, about the actions taken by the European Commission towards Poland, he is unable to inform the Polish Parliament. He is unable to inform Polish citizens. I ask: Where is this fight about sovereignty that you are so eager to talk about? Where is the attitude that would be connected with the action in the interests of Poland, Prime Minister Szydło? I ask you to vote on this motion. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, I will start with my second speech, Mrs Pomaska. I'm just wondering what the formal conclusion is. [[Joy in the Chamber]] I would like to inform you that this letter, which the club submitted yesterday, was addressed to the European Union Commission for consideration. The Commission will deliver an opinion and perhaps the High House will address this issue. As far as declassification is concerned, the Sejm is not competent in this matter, even I suppose that the government is not competent because it is a document of the European Commission. [[Applause]] Therefore, I cannot accept this proposal as a formal proposal. In the case of the first proposal, Mrs Schmidt I, unfortunately, cannot accept this proposal either. I can't agree to a break because, ladies and gentlemen, I don't see a reasonable justification because this point was proposed on time in a dozen hours and therefore the club Modern will be able to reflect on the proposal. [[Applause]] We therefore proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: First reading of the Parliamentary draft law on the National Media Council and amending certain laws, print 592, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 229 voted against - 192, 16 Members abstained. I find the Sejm has accepted the offer. I propose that in the discussion on this item, the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. [[Objection!]] There's an objection. Would you mind if I... I'm sorry, who said that? [[Joy in the Chamber]] Mrs Lubnauer, right? Would you mind making another suggestion? [[Voice from the room: Reasonable.]] [[Ten minutes.]] Okay, I understand 10 minutes. Then we have a choice, so we'll vote. We will vote on the Bureau's proposal. We proceed with the vote on the proposal of the Sejm Bureau. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal from the Bureau of the Sejm to listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle in the discussion on the added point, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. The vote was 252 against - 174, 12 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has accepted the Bureau's proposal. We are returning to the examination of item 2 of the agenda: Information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the situation at the Institute - The Children's Health Centre. An objection was raised in the light of the proposal to accept the information submitted. I will put to the vote a request for information. The question is raised by Mrs Alice Chybick, the Civic Platform Club. Time - 1 minute. That's enough for you, I presume.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the following question. Why did it take 16 days? Why would you say $1.5,000? Did the kids bounce off the door of the Children's Health Center? Why? [[It lasted eight years.]] [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] And that question is not unfounded. [[Eight years.]] What if more high-specialist individuals face the same situation? I, on behalf of those kids who are coming downtown now, thank you for signing this at all. [[Eight years!]] [[Voice from the room: Insolence...]] Please also if this happens again, so that there are no 16 days. That could have been done a lot faster. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Where are your 8 years?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u9	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of informing the President of the Council of Ministers about the situation at the Institute - the Children's Health Center, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Who's saying that? [[Joy in the Chamber]] Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, there was trouble yesterday, too. 438 Members voted. For - 266, against - 171, 1 Member abstained. I state that the Sejm has accepted the information. We are returning to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the Health Commission's report on the draft law amending the Act amending the Law on the Information System in Health Protection and certain other laws. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 587. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print No.587 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. The vote was 437 against - 2, no one abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Act amending the Act on the Information System in Health Protection and some other laws. We are returning to the review of item 5 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Digitalisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies and the Committee on Infrastructure on the Government draft law amending the Act on Supporting the Development of Telecommunications Services and Networks and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 540-A. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask Barbara Bubula to submit an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Joint committees: the Committee on Digitalisation, Innovation and Modern Technology and the Committee on Infrastructure considered the amendments tabled at second reading yesterday. The committees propose that amendments 13, 14, 16 and 18 be rejected and that the other amendments be adopted and that the entire bill be adopted with the amendments recommended. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u11	Please, or rather thank you, Member. The committees are asking for the adoption of the draft Print Act 540 and, as we have heard, in an additional report of amendments on which we will vote first. Amendments 1 to 13. notified in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Act on Support for the Development of Telecommunications Services and Networks. In the 1st amendment to the amendment to the amended Article in the Act. 29b applicants shall propose that in paragraph 29b. 1 add point 6. Amendments 2 to 7 and 19 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The committees are filing for their admission. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments from 1 to 7 and 19 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. The vote was 437 against - 2, no one abstained. I state that the Sejm has accepted the amendments. In the 8th amendment to the article. 30 applicants shall propose that in paragraph 1. 1e add point 5. The committees are asking for her party. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 9th amendment to the article. Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5e applicants propose to amend their appointments. The committees are asking for her party. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In amendments 10 to 12, applicants propose editorial changes. We will vote on these amendments together. The committees are filing for their admission. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments from 10 to 12 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. The vote was 406, no one voted against, 32 Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 13th amendment to the inserted article. 36f applicants propose legislative amendments. The committees are filing for rejection. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 13th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. The vote was 176 against - 220, 32 Members abstained. I find that the Sejm did not accept the amendment, rejected it. Amendments 14 to 18 were tabled in Article. 2 draft amending act, including amendments to the Public Road Act. In the 14th amendment to the article. 39 of the amended law, applicants propose a new wording of the added paragraph. 3aa. The committees are filing for rejection. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 14th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 173 voted against - 234, 32 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Amendments 15 and 17. applicants propose to charge a fee for making part of the technological channel available. We will vote on these amendments together. The committees are filing for their admission. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of amendments 15 and 17 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. The vote was 437 against - 2, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 16th amendment to the article. 39 applicants shall propose a different wording of the added paragraph. 7i. The committees are filing for rejection. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 16th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 209 voted against - 227, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. The 17th amendment has already been examined. In the 18th amendment, applicants propose to add Article in the amended act. 52a. The committees are filing for rejection. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 18th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 170 voted against 266, no one abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. The 19th amendment has already been examined. In the 20th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of the Article. 21 draft amending act. The committees are asking for her party. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 20th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. The vote was 435 against - 1, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 540, along with the amendments adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. [[Applause]] So I state that the Sejm unanimously passed a law amending the law on promoting the development of services and telecommunications networks and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report from the Energy and Treasury Commission on the Government draft law on the rules for determining the remuneration of persons managing certain companies. The additional committee report shall be in print No 552-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Kubov to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Energy and the Treasury on the government draft law on the rules for determining the remuneration of persons running certain companies. The Commission considered two amendments tabled at an additional meeting, which I recommend rejecting. The Commission recommends that the draft law be adopted in full. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u13	Thank you very much. As we have heard, in an additional report, the committee sets out the amendments that we will be voting on first. In the first amendment to Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 3 of the draft law, applicants shall propose that, after the words "decided in accordance with paragraph." (b) add the words "not by more than 10% more than the remuneration determined in accordance with paragraph 2.'. 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. And here we have a Member who asks a question. Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u14	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! This regulation is intended to replace the provisions of the chimney law, which has been repeatedly violated and celebrated. Unfortunately, the proposed provisions and, in particular, the Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 3, make it possible to establish a higher remuneration than those laid down in the regulations for managers of state-owned companies. As the Russians say, the limit in this case is only the sky. The intention of the amendment, which we are voting on at the moment, is to seal this provision so that in future we do not have to deal with situations which were described by the Minister of Treasury in the so-called. Audition. This is all the more justified by the fact that Article. 10 applicants have provided for similar restrictions for members of supervisory boards. I hope that you will accept this amendment and that another gold Mercedes will no longer enter the companies of the Treasury. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u15	There you go. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 208 Members voted against - 231, 1 Member abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the second amendment, applicants shall propose after Article. 4 add Article. 4a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is raised by Elizabeth Stępień, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u16	I understand that the 1st amendment didn't go through, which means the Mercedes are coming in. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Law and Justice have left the competition method, separating people with experience, separating people with substance. We would like the amendment that we are proposing, above all, to give the basis for people who include presidential positions or government agendas to have minimal messages in this regard. [[News...]] Therefore, our amendment concerns both 2-year management experience and 5-year experience in the field of... [[What constitution is in force?]] ...government alert. I therefore hope that you will accept this amendment and that we will not have the same situation as in the case of studs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u17	There you go. We'll proceed to the vote... With another question? I can't see. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. Two Members abstained from voting 204 against - 231. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. And there are Members of the House with questions. Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u18	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Unfortunately, the gold Mercedes will enter the companies of the Treasury, a bit in different colors, but will enter. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill means in any case an increase in the remuneration in the companies and I want it to sound clearly from this stand. This is not a law to limit those cases that were loudly reported that managers in state companies received unjustified high salaries. As far as the largest companies are concerned, let me remind you that this will be an increase from six times to fifteen times the remuneration in companies. As far as smaller companies are concerned, and we have much more of such companies than the spectacular ones we talked about, this increase will be from six times to eight times. Once again, this is not a law that limits remuneration in state companies, local government companies and other government agencies. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We would understand the provisions of this law if Law and Justice recruited managers to state-owned companies on the market. Meanwhile...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u19	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u20	...managers in companies are also recruited from parliament benches. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u21	Mr Zdzisław Gawlik, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u22	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have three questions for the government, the Prime Minister. The first question is to indicate a provision which limits the amount of remuneration in the companies of the State Treasury, thus preventing this kind of sky, as has been said so far. Question two: Is it true that today a member of the Supervisory Board of the Polish Energy Group earns about 3,000, and after the introduction of this law will earn 10,000, and it is about a number of others? And what happened that even though the creators of the dual company management system in 1934 did not introduce as a necessary additional remuneration for the members of the supervisory board in the form of reimbursement, we are doing so today? Is this money related to the increase in the remuneration of the members of the supervisory board still not enough and another one needs to be added? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u23	Please. Mr Marek Suski also asks the question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u24	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the government, too, about the savings that the public sector will receive from reducing earnings on boards and supervisory boards. [[But it's not going to be a reduction, it's going to be an increase.]] This bill will reduce the total... [[Raise it.]] ...inventory. Madam President, I understand that he cannot count, so I ask the government, and I ask him to present... [[And you speak and think.]] But don't bother me asking a question. You may come to the question... [[Finish it.]] ...not to ask from the benches. I have a question: Are these amendments, all that you put forward during the committee's work, supposed to serve as it was? [[Applause]] Because if we say it's a five-year experience requirement, that means that people who are educated, after college, passed courses, passed a difficult exam, couldn't start working on any boards or boards, which means your people could, [[♪ The bell ♪]] ♪ and no one's new ♪ So he couldn't. [[Exactly.]] And what were your people like? [[And yours are the most important.]] One lady entered the board of Herbapolis just because she liked to collect herbs, and now she could work at the Treasury company... [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u25	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u26	...and new people, educated, no. [[Exactly.]] [[To Janów Podlaski, collect herbs.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u27	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u28	Thank you very much. [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u29	And at this moment the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Treasury will speak Mr Filip Grzegorczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u30	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, the fact that the chimney bill introduces any limits is absolutely not true. And there are people in this room who were beneficiaries of this very state of affairs. [[Applause]] So please do not mislead the public and the voting Members. There's no limit. [[Don't wave your hand.]] The beneficiaries of the lack of limits of the chimney law were civil platform activists on company boards. [[Applause]] Probably, too. [[What's this? You're talking to the Seym. You're the minister.]] On the other hand, I answer the question - yes, the remuneration of a member of the supervisory board at PGE... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Quiet!]] ...it will grow, and Mr Gawlik should know perfectly why. It will increase because in such a large company real ownership supervision must be performed. [[Uh-huh.]] In contrast, in many companies It's a down payment. The amount of savings is PLN 60 million per year. 60 million zlotys a year. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] Not much? Seems like a lot. Thank you. [[Voice from the hall: There will be no savings, you will spend much more.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u31	Thank you. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole, in print No 552, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 23 Members have abstained from voting 233 against - 186. I state that the Sejm has passed a law on the rules governing the remuneration of persons running certain companies. We would like to return to the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the report of the Parliamentary and Parliamentary Committee on Rules of Procedure and the draft resolutions submitted by the Sejm Bureau on the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Sejm. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 538. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft resolution in print No 538, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 387 voted against - 50, 3 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the draft resolution on the establishment of the National Entrepreneur's Day on 21 June. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 535. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft resolution in print no. 535 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. The vote was 432, against - 3, 6 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on the establishment of the Entrepreneur's Day on 21 June. [[Applause]] We return to the review of item 16 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on amending the law on medicinal activities and some other laws. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Health Committee for consideration. The question is raised by Members. Mrs Alicia Chybicka, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u32	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask if this bill was in line with the constitution. These local governments, which are rich, will be able to pay off debts, and according to this law after the first financial year the founding body must 100% Pay your debt. In the previous law, this record also existed, except that there was no immediate action of the debt collector and it was in some sense not implemented. Also those self-governments that have a lot of money will be able to buy health services for their people. These communities, which are poor, will not do so, i.e. there will be absolute inequality in access to health services. I'm not gonna mention high-specialized clinical hospitals anymore. None of the medical universities will be able to buy any services, nor will they be able to pay their debts. Thank you very much. This is generally a bad bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u33	There you go. Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u34	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is a terrible law which imposes an obligation on local governments to co-pay for medical services to which the National Health Fund is obliged. You're giving new responsibilities to local governments, not giving them a dollar. Thus, the liquidation of hospitals, the liquidation of the county, the weakening of Polish health services may occur. Yesterday Minister Radziwiłł convinced us all that he would present systemic solutions. Only these are not systemic solutions, this is poison that will poison the Polish health system to the end, but also poison the local government, poison universities. There will be no possibility to finance additional benefits without additional money. You want to push the responsibilities on the local government, and you're not gonna get the nurses to blame, you're gonna have to get the locals, you're gonna get the queues, you're gonna get the health care problems. Really think about it, ladies and gentlemen of the PiS. Listen to the voice of your self-government, your elders. [[♪ The bell ♪]] They know well, they know well. [[Ha, ha, ha.]] [[Game in the O.R.]] Your screaming is not a lotion for the difficult situation of Polish health care. [[Elewarr will help.]] Your scream is not a lotion, and your earlier scream at Professor Chybick, when she first asked a question, it's just rudeness... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u35	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u36	...because you're yelling at a person who's been treating and treating severely ill children, and regardless of what party she's from, her respect is due.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u37	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u38	Reject this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u39	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u40	Let's reject this law at first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u41	Thank you very much. [[How's Janek Bury?]] [[Silver.]] I'll just say it's a government project. [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: But most of them are from the PiS club.]] There is a difference between government and legislative power, fundamental. [[We control her.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the bill in print No 562, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. Three Members abstained in voting 200 against - 230. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendments... the proposal has rejected and has therefore sent this bill to the Health Committee for consideration. I propose that, on the basis of the article. 39 (1) (a) 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, the committee submitted a report on the draft within a time limit allowing for consideration at the current sitting of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. [[But wait, the objection.]] [[Mr Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: Objection.]] I don't hear any objections. [[Objection.]] There's an objection. Then you'll allow us to vote against it. In view of the opposition raised against the application of the Article. 39 (1) (a) The 3rd Rules of Procedure of the Sejm must be settled in the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of agreeing to the application of the Article. 39 (1) (a) 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, i.e., as I said, an indication of the deadline for the committee to submit a report at this meeting, would like to raise its hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. There were 231 Members voted against - 197. Six Members abstained. I find the Sejm has accepted the offer. And this, ladies and gentlemen, is the end of the vote. I'm declaring a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 9 min. 44 hours 9 min 54]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. The first question will be asked by Mrs Elżbieta Sobeck and Mr Wojciech Zubowski on the cancellation of tenders for the supply of uniforms to the Polish army - to the Minister for National Defence. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Mr Bartłomiej Grabski will answer. I ask you to ask Elizabeth Sobecka, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u42	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Anna Elizabeth Sobecka. Minister! At the beginning of this year several tenders were announced for the assortment for the Polish army, among others. for field uniforms, exit and galley uniforms, desert camouflage uniforms, summer and winter tank clothing, field shirts and others. Military tenders were already held in February. Unfortunately, there's been a cancellation of all tenders for uniforming soldiers. This took place at the end of May, after more than three months, an unprecedented long period since the submission of offers. The reason for the annulment was that exceptional circumstances related to the transfer of funds and the fact that the performance and execution of contracts are not in the public interest. Meanwhile, companies that won the tenders and offered the price in the ordering limit at such large orders began to prepare immediately after the tenders for the execution of the orders. The situation that after 3 months after the tender all procedures are voided, uniform orders, is quite unusual and curiosable in Poland. The winning tenders were to provide work and production by the end of this year for many Polish companies employing several thousand employees, companies that are often protected workers or disabled cooperatives. However, they are in danger of being wound up because of this decision. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister! We're talking about about about $5,000. employees. Hence my question: Why did the Ministry cancel tenders for the supply of uniforms to the Polish army after 3 months, and why does MON claim that the operation and execution of these orders is not in the public interest? Please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u43	Thank you very much, Member. I apologize, of course, for missing Anna's beautiful first name. I'm getting better.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u44	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u45	I ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u46	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Member! First of all, I would just like to correct: tenders which were announced by the Ministry of National Defence in terms of uniform and military equipment have not been cancelled. The procedure was annulled at a certain stage after the opening stage of the tenders. It is necessary to take a deeper look at this issue here. There are in the Ministry of National Defence the needs of the Armed Forces, which imply purchases. With regard to the state of stocks, during an audit carried out at the Ministry of National Defence, it was identified that the stocks and resources, as far as this range is concerned, are sufficient, I would even say that they are very large. The Civic Platform announced, prepared these tenders at the end of last year, setting such heights that far exceeded the needs of the Armed Forces. There's a cloud problem that we'd buy a huge number of uniforms that would be in storage states. Taxpayers would pay more than PLN 260 million for an assortment in an area which, according to the analysis of the audit carried out, does not require such volume of purchases. There are other tasks and priorities pursued by the Armed Forces, much more important for the security and functioning of the Armed Forces, the tasks and priorities for which these financial resources should be allocated. When these tenders were announced, the new management had not yet had sufficient knowledge of the situation and stocks as well as the activities of the previous authority. Therefore, the tendering procedure prepared by the predecessors was launched despite subsequent reservations as to its validity. At the same time, this opening audit, which I mentioned, confirmed the concerns of the authorities, the current national defence department, that these purchases would be irrational, exceeding the needs and, from the point of view of the Armed Forces, unnecessary. With regard to purchases in two thousand... the army will buy uniforms and equipment in this year, which results from the signed multiannual contracts for the years 2014/2016. This year about PLN 50 million will be spent on this assortment. In previous years, in 2014 and 2015, over 600 million PLN was spent on uniforming and equipment of the Armed Forces so that the Member of the Commission would be aware of this. Of course, we are aware that giving up this year's purchases from the perspective of business planning for companies that provide such services is a difficult decision, but unfortunately we are not... The good of the Armed Forces is a priority and here these purchases had to be prioritized at further locations. And here's the formal issue. It is not possible to process those contracts for which there is no financial means, i.e. the transfer of these funds from RBLog, which is the contracting authority... cannot be further processed. I think that's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u47	Thank you. I would like to ask you an additional question by Anna Elizabeth Sobecka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u48	Thank you, Marshal. Minister, thank you for this reply, but I am unfortunately not satisfied with it, because we are talking about Polish companies and at least I think that this is a bit of an argument when it comes to decisions of the Ministry, with our programme, the Law and Justice programme. We're talking about $5,000. employees. He applied to me, Minister, President of the Association of Polish Textile Producers, who presented me with the entire report of these companies, how many materials were ordered after these tenders, how many people are employed, how many are scheduled to be released after you withdrew from these offers. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In addition, I must say that it is customary for fabric producers to start production after the tender has been decided. Supplements are ordered, also parts of fabrics, because all materials for such specific production are made for specific orders and require technologically difficult several months of production. In the present case, the extension of the tendering procedure...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u49	Member, please go to the end.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u50	In short, it destroys companies very much, it leads to bankruptcy, to liquidation. The association of the textile industry of Polish companies is really very concerned.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u51	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u52	Therefore, does MON realise that the cancellation of these tenders will result in the collapse of many textile companies in Poland?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u53	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Minister. All ladies and gentlemen, I would very much like to ask you to keep an eye on the time regime, as we have a very intense day today. These meetings are scheduled to be held late at night and therefore I apologize in advance, but I will be very strict about the time of the questions asked, including the answers given. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u54	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Member, I will repeat this once again. Taxpayers must not pay for irrational decisions of the previous authorities of the Ministry of National Defence. As far as uniforms and equipment are concerned, spending more than PLN 260 million in public funds to fill the stocks is devoid of any logic. Unnecessary shopping, in my opinion, from some clothing companies, running... It was announced to open offers, and there was no evaluation of offers, there was no indication which company was winning, so making purchases by these companies, e.g. material or other decisions made regarding the preparation of production are so-called. business risk. Here in this case, in this situation, money must be used for other, from the point of view of the Armed Forces, priority actions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u55	Thank you very much, thank you to the marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u56	Thank you, Member. Thank you, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. You, Mrs Joanna Kopcińska, Mr Jarosław Szlachetka and Mr Krzysztof Ostrowski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, ask a question about the problems related to the provision of suitable rolling stock on the Warsaw-Łódź route, in particular the lack of maneuverability of locomotives at the Łódź Fabryczna station. The question is addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, Minister Jerzy Schmit, will answer. The first question is asked by Mrs Joanna Kopcińska. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u57	Thank you, Marshal. Minister, for several days there has been information in national and regional media about possible problems related to the provision of suitable rolling stock on the Warsaw-Łódź route. It is a lack of possibility to maneuver the locomotive at the Łódź Fabryczna station. The Łódź Fabryczna railway station will be the only terminal station for some time. Here the trains will start and finish their course. Technical regulations established by PKP Polskie Linie Kolejowe, according to media reports, largely exclude the use of wagons which dominate the Łódź - Warsaw route. There are therefore problems with assemblies meeting the requirements of the PKP PLK and certain EU rail procedures. I have a question: Is there a danger of a significant reduction in the network of connections on the Łódź - Warsaw line due to the insufficient size of the corresponding rolling stock? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u58	Thank you very much. And please take the floor of Minister Jerzy Szmit.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u59	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will try to answer the question a little more broadly. In relation to the developed target model of train traffic PKP PLK SA confirmed that all types of PKP Intercity SA warehouses that are currently running between Łódź and Warsaw will enter the new Łódź Fabryczna station. In the new timetable from the station Łódź Fabryczna will depart 35 trains of PKP Intercity SA daily. The company plans to significantly increase the use of the latest EZT trains, electric traction units. The expected service of the Łódź Fabryczna station are vehicles of Pesa Dart - 9 warehouses, vehicles Flirt 3 The introduction of Pesa Dart and Flirt 3 vehicles to the Łódź - Warsaw line requires the approval of the EU Transport Projects Centre, as these projects are covered by EU funding. At the time of purchase of units of both types of PKP Intercity SA did not intend to support this relationship, so it did not include the Łódź line in the application for EU funding. PKP Intercity SA is already conducting interviews with CUPT in order to obtain the appropriate permission. In addition, updates need to be made to the national running documents purchased for the PSC segment of the trains Pesa Dart and Flirt 3. The current transport plan and the framework contract for the provision of public services do not assume the service of the direct relationship between Łódź and Warsaw. This line has so far been of a commercial nature. However, as a result of the over-expected dynamic development of road transport on this route in recent years due to the parallel development of the network of modern roads, it is currently being considered to include this relationship in the scope of the public service contract. The PKP Intercity SA rolling stock renewal project for the relationship between the Łódź agglomeration and the Warsaw agglomeration, the object of which was to purchase 10 storeys of electric traction units, was included in the reserve list of individual projects of the Operational Programme In view of the lack of funding from the European Union for co-financing of the PKP Intercity SA project, it was not possible to finance this purchase on its own. In addition, the Warsaw - Łódź route is not covered by the framework contract for the provision of public services. At the time of the inclusion of the project in the reserve list of PO IiŚ 2007, no decision was taken to include the route in this agreement. The above-mentioned project could therefore only be financed through regional aid. The effective level of EU funding for rolling stock on the Warsaw-Łódź route would be close to the level of funding of the Pendolino project, or even lower. It's funding at the level of ok. 22% eligible expenditure. In view of the fact that most of the own contribution to the financing of the projects carried out in the perspective for the period 2007-2013, PKP Intercity SA obtained from the European Investment Bank's loans which were recoverable, such a low level of funding would result in a significant increase in the company's debt in order to finance its own contribution to the project. Dear Members, High Izbo! I think what is most important in this information is that all types of passenger trains will enter the Łódź Fabryczna station, that there will be 35 connections, that their scope will be extended as far as possible and that communication between Łódź and Warsaw will be greatly strengthened.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u60	Thank you, Minister. The additional question will be asked by Mr Jarosław Nobletka. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u61	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Question: "When did PKP Intercity know about technical requirements related to the possibility of using the Łódź Fabryczna station?" Second question: Did the Management Board of PKP Intercity realise that the construction of the Western warhead had been abandoned? Since when did the board have that knowledge, and did they have it at all? Next question: Has any other options related to the use of other suitable rolling stock been secured, how much is the PKP PLK position on the subject of traffic assumptions for the Łódź Fabryczna station taking into account the possibilities of PKP Intercity regarding its own rolling stock and are transitional periods taken into account? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u62	Thank you. And please take the floor of Minister Jerzy Szmit again.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u63	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! All types of trains available to PKP Intercity will be able to enter the Łódź Fabryczna station, so this problem has already been solved. On the other hand, as far as transitional periods are concerned, there is no need for transitional periods, simply those individual warehouses that I mentioned earlier will be able to make connections. Question: Since when does the PKP know about technical requirements related to the possibility of use? It's been three, actually, for two months. This is the last thing. Unfortunately, this is still the backlog of previous boards of the PKP, individual companies which were not able to agree this earlier. But now these problems, like I said, have been solved. On the other hand, as far as the Western warhead is concerned, it was the decision of the European Commission, because it was previously stated, when examining the project of the Łódź Fabryczna station, that it is oversized, that it is too big in relation to the needs which were signalled at the time. And then, in fact, under the influence of the European Commission, this decision was made. Whether she was right or wrong, we will probably find out, but today we want to bring about a situation of full use of this station, so that it can serve communication in the centre of Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u64	Thank you, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz and Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, ask a question about the draft law amending the Act on renewable energy sources and some other laws. The question is addressed to the Minister of Energy. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Mr Andrzej Piotrowski will answer. The first question is asked by Mrs Gabriel Lenartowicz. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u65	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I want to ask a rather comprehensive question and I will ask for an answer in writing first of all. These questions relate primarily to the desert system. I would like to ask if there are sources, data in professional literature, which confirm the superiority of the exit model over guaranteed tariffs, especially in terms of support and development of so-called. Prosumerism, that is, civic energy. If the Ministry has economic models on which its desert system and the mechanisms used are based, I would ask you to present them. But I would like to focus primarily on such an element of the so-called law. RES, which as if does not adhere to the substance and in particular to the transitional fee resulting from the so-called. Act on PPAs. It is a change in the rules for the settlement of long-term contracts, which the European Commission has treated as public aid, which it has incorporated in the amendment of the law, and has requested their termination. After long negotiations, for which notabene was responsible by the then Deputy Minister of Economy, and today's Minister of Energy Krzysztof Tchórzewski, Brussels issued a decision approving the applicable law and a certain model of public aid in this area, which is included in this Act. My question concerns the reasons for this amendment in the RES Act and what actions to ensure security of energy supply the applicant means by extending [[♪ The bell ♪]] the tax base. At the same time, I wanted to ask, if it is possible, the justification for the increase in the fixed fee, as opposed to the existing arrangements, for households up to 8 PLN gross per month...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u66	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u67	...and at the same time reduce it - I'm finishing up - for the biggest audience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u68	Thank you very much, Member. Please take the floor of Minister Andrzej Piotrowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u69	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! I'm answering. You do not have any model of grants that would be scientifically justified, because grants are not researched, they are policy subjects. The way they are separated is a political decision, and therefore, when it comes to effectiveness, it is actually shown only by the results. We never, as the Ministry, claimed that where tariffs were applied to the prosumers, the system had not developed. Of course, if we pay someone, they'll do what we expect. On the other hand, we referred to the socio-economic sense of such a solution in the context of the RES Act and in the context of the development of precisely socio-economic farms. In this context, briefly, because we have a tight agenda today, I would say that the development of prosumer installations, which are understood as installations designed to meet our own energy needs, does not mean that there is a need to generate significant profits for the selected group at the expense of another group of citizens, and that Members should also bear in mind, not only the Ministry of Energy. In this context, the view repeated by the energy department that the introduction of guaranteed tariffs does not ensure efficiency in the creation of prosumer traffic should be understood to mean that, given the creation of a financial stimulus for the production of a maximum quantity of electricity, not the quantities necessary to meet its own needs, it is true. In view of the above, I would like to point out that from the government's point of view, it is important that the support mechanism based on guaranteed tariffs, as causing an excessive burden on end-users, which is disproportionate to the benefits in terms of meeting the RES target, is replaced by the form of waste proposed by the energy resort. As I conclude from previous discussions, the word "emptiness" was not a form previously known by the Member. I recommend that the words "emptiness" and e.g. be inserted into Google. .Professor. Honey, honey, honey, honey, honey, honey, honey, honey, honey, honey, honey, honey, honey, honey, honey, honey, That word is in Polish. It should not be wrong, which is unfortunately quite common, to replace the form of "emptiness," because it is a completely different procedure. I'm not gonna quote it, it's related to killing animals. As far as the transitional fee is concerned, this is indeed a situation in which, in order to bring our Polish excise system into line with EU directives, certain orphaned costs have been incurred. I don't want to develop it here. Indeed, the way these orphaned costs were settled was discussed with the committee. As with any such act in which the issue of state aid arises, so it has been settled. As a result, in the course of the committee's work, we found that extending the definition of what costs are intended to do with the so-called costs. KDTs can cause doubts about whether or not something has changed. This was logically justified, because de facto it is a question of the security of the energy system and of the power that had once been produced for loans, which suddenly could not be guaranteed in some way in connection with the change of the system. On the other hand, in terms of the increase in the fee, during the previous team's reign, this mechanism, which has been operating for many years, resulted in quite a considerable debt of over PLN 1 billion at the end on the part of the clearing manager. As this debt was financed by loans, it was simply necessary to put in place a mechanism to compensate for this at the moment. However, I note that these are individual zlotys per bill, which are often 100 zlotys per bill. So much for explaining.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u70	Thank you, Minister. I would like to ask you an additional question by Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u71	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! A fundamental question: Is RES a value in an energy mix or a curse imposed by the European Union? Is RES technological development or, on the contrary, RES interferes with technology development? Yesterday at an hour. 1 a.m. I was amazed. By the way, it's interesting that such an important bill is considered at hours. 1 a.m. and you have 5 minutes to perform. You said you opposed co-burning as technologically modern windmills as technologically outdated. I understand that when it comes to old windmills, but the new law and auction system assured us that the latest technologies were to be used. Basketball. In fact, you're making it look like there's gonna be discrimination against baskets. I was a big fan myself. But if you want to destroy wind energy at the entrance of the second act, it shows that you're only betting on co-incinerating. 'Cause you're not gonna tell me the biogas plants are gonna do it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] an increase in the energy mix that protects the appropriate level of RES required by the European Union. We have a 12-percent decline in wind power and an increase in co-incineration. Is that what this is about?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u72	Thank you, sir. I ask the Minister to speak again.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u73	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! I think it's going to be a little academic to discuss the development of technology in one area, the development of technology in the other area, and which one of these developments is better. I propose one simple measure relating to which of these developments is more useful and at the same time meets the objective. The purpose of RES is known to all: there are certain limits to be met. And let us approach this in a pragmatic way, to establish attention. If we look at the development of turbines, it is a development related to two issues. It's the size of the turbines. As I mentioned last night, this is an incremental development that allows you to gain more unit power from the installed turbine, which allows you to build... It requires bigger propellers, and therefore higher masts are built. Higher masts allow you to reach to this part, let's call it climate phenomena that take place a little higher. Therefore, the efficiency of the turbine is slightly improved in the sense that it works for a longer period of a year, statistically speaking. Is this advanced technology? No. This is the use of the physical phenomenon. In fact, these smaller turbines could also be theoretically higher, but it didn't pay off before. At a time when there is more power, it can be expected that more energy will be sold, so that the whole closes economically. On the issue of co-incineration, I would like to say that we are dealing with a completely different package of problems. I would like to stress that the management of biological waste is very important and this is an element, let's call it a clean-up of our waste environment. Therefore, I do not see any reason to deny the meaning of this technology and to say that, in that case, let it rot, let it generate gases at this point, which are not classified as greenhouse gases, just because they were formed in a certain cycle of circulation. But they are emitted, generated and do not benefit the current, on the contrary - they bring discomfort to the population. The government therefore follows two considerations: firstly, to ensure the stability of the energy system, second, to make use of the possibilities for the management of natural resources and in particular waste. Thus technological baskets arranged according to such logic, although in the Minister's regulation will be precisely defined, what and in what order appears, what is government policy. Government policy seems to be obvious. [[♪ The bell ♪]] a reason to shape. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u74	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. [[There's still a question.]] The Member has already asked the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u75	Mr. Marshal, I'm just here on a formal matter. However, I wanted to repeat my request for a written reply to the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u76	Thank you, Member. Let's move on to the next question. Mr Maciej Masłowski, the Poselski Kukiz Club15, asks a question on the draft regulation of the Minister for Health on the definition of specific criteria for the selection of offers in the procedure for the conclusion of health care contracts, which concern rehabilitation of children with developmental age disorders in the centre or in the ward. The question is addressed to the Minister of Health. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Mr Piotr Gryza will answer. I ask you to ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u77	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Dear Minister, A proposal for a regulation, which requires the employment of a medical rehabilitation specialist of at least a part-time job of 10 beneficiaries under the age of 18, reached small rehabilitation units. The current dimension of doctor's working time is also at least part-time, but is not linked to the number of patients, so that institutions can freely adapt the working time dimension to the real needs of patients. According to specialists involved in rehabilitation of children with disabilities, solutions proposed in the above mentioned. In fact, the draft regulation is impossible to comply with and will lead to the collapse of many institutions. Rehabilitation centres would be obliged to additionally hire doctors for medical rehabilitation, which, with the dramatic absence of doctors for this specialty and the unchangeable criterion for financing for years, is no longer a condition to be met. It should be noted that in rehabilitation facilities the main burden rests on other members of the therapeutic team, i.e. physiotherapists, educators, speech counselors or psychologists. The system, which has so far been functioning, is recognized in the environment of both rehabilitation professionals and patients. I therefore ask the Minister with the following questions: Is the Ministry going to give up the record making the employment of medical rehabilitation doctors dependent on the number of recipients? In the event of leaving a record making the employment of medical rehabilitation doctors dependent on the number of recipients, will the Ministry lead to such an increase in subsidies and subsidies so that healthcare establishments can meet the new requirements set out in the draft regulation? And lastly: Does the Ministry know the criticisms of the rehabilitation professionals' environment for the proposed changes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u78	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u79	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, The draft regulation of the Minister of Health, which we are proceeding here, is the execution of the statutory authorisation provided for in Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 3 Public-funded healthcare provision law. From 1 July this year. The Minister for Health shall be authorised by law to issue a regulation laying down detailed criteria for the selection of tenders in the procedure for the conclusion of health care contracts. It is important to note that this regulation concerns premium criteria. A competition for healthcare provision is held and this criterion does not specify access conditions because these access conditions are set out in the basket criteria issued pursuant to Article. 31d of the above-mentioned bill, so... This, in fact, appeared in questions or comments on this project - at the same time I reply to the Member's third question - I actually with all the comments, in this particular case concerning rehabilitation, and in particular the rehabilitation of children, was familiar with and what was important - it is precisely that in most cases those who responded and participated in this consultation process thought that this was a replacement, even there were such requests: we ask you to replace or maintain the previous conditions. The point is that this regulation sets out award criteria, not access criteria. Failure to meet these conditions does not exclude participation in the provision of benefits, but simply sets it in a hierarchy. During the competition it may turn out that someone who meets these criteria will be in the first place, and someone who does not meet these criteria will be in the second place, and one, and the other offer can be accepted by the National Health Fund. And the other thing is, it works in a whole system. It must be borne in mind that the National Health Fund, in the form of a decision by the President of the National Health Fund and in the form of a decision by the director of the National Health Fund branch, identifies the products and identifies the areas in which these services are to be contracted. This is also extremely important, because these areas decide, including access criteria, i.e. basket regulations, and award criteria, i.e. the regulation on which we are proceeding, the possibility of performing or the possibility of winning a contest by a given provider of benefits. So, in fact, first of all, it is important to note that this does not close the possibilities, but these are the bonus criteria. Again, I am talking about this because this is a very important issue in understanding this criterion. On the other hand, as far as the substance of this issue is concerned, which the honourable Member was talking about, we have indeed met with a number of comments on the Children's Rehabilitation Regulation, and indeed the allegation was about too high requirements for the employment of specialist doctors in 10 patients. We take into account the comments made and try to take them into account to a large extent. I would like to say that the Ministry of Health is currently working on this regulation, very intensive, because we need to spend it by the end of this month. The issue of rehabilitation of children is of great concern to us and all the comments that have been received, we are thoroughly analyzing. And this is overstated, but this is a certain interpretation, a premium criterion - let me repeat once again: the premium criterion - regarding the employment of medical personnel will be modified by us. That's the answer to the first question. The second question I don't have to answer is that the answer to the first question solves the matter. And to the third question I answer: yes, we took note of all the comments, I also read most of the comments concerning among others. therapeutic rehabilitation for children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u80	Thank you, Minister. I don't know if there's an extra question. No. Then thank you kindly. The next question is the question of Mr Mirosław Pampuch, Mrs Kornelia Wróblewska, Mrs Ewa Lieder and Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloski on the consequences of the entry into force of the Law on the Stopping Sale of Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury and on the amendment of certain laws. The question is addressed to the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development. Minister Zbigniew Babalski will answer the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. I'd like to ask you a question. The first question is asked by Paulina Hennig-Kloska. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u81	Mr. Marshal! Minister! It happened that the new rules on the agricultural system, which entered into force on 1 May, as we predicted, led to investment paralysis in Poland. These provisions, apart from the fact that they restrict very much those who have the opportunity to acquire agricultural property, to individual farmers, to the state and to the Church, are also a profound interference in the sphere of disposal of these properties. As a result of the new regulations, part of the economic investment in the countryside cannot be implemented and the planned investments in the agricultural land sector are almost frozen. Worse still, as a result of unthinkable records of hundreds of people building houses in Poland, also on small plots, up to 3 thousand. m2, which were to be excluded from the act, received negative credit decisions, often already during the implementation of their most important investments in life, investments aimed at building their own four corners and a roof over their heads. Financial institutions have withdrawn from financing investments with in-kind collateral in the form of a mortgage on agricultural property as it is not possible to establish a mortgage on these real estates covering not only the value of the land but also the investment carried out. No one, ladies and gentlemen, will finance the investment if he does not obtain a security equivalent to the risk being taken. No one will play partial entries either, because this threatens to cause serious complications, and as a result of the lack of collateral for the lending bank. The problem concerns both agricultural commercial investments and the private buildings I mentioned in these small plots. These small parcels that were to be, I will remind you, excluded from the act, [[♪ The bell ♪]] are agricultural real estate, and this definition refers to most of the rules governing the agricultural system after 1 May, including guidelines for the establishment of these mortgages. The problem is hundreds of people, because it's hundreds of people coming to us about this...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u82	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u83	They're reporting. So I would like to ask the Minister briefly: How is the Ministry going to solve this problem and in what time is it planning to solve this problem?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u84	Thank you, Member. Please respond to Minister Zbigniew Babalski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The honourable Member asking the question, ladies and gentlemen asking the question, the answer may be very short and I should actually end there. We are already working on this and immediately what is an obstacle to people will be corrected. From this point on, from the high stand, during the debate on this bill, I said that if there were situations that would require repair, we would do so. But I would like to remind you of the main objectives and principles that were presented during the procession and when the bill was adopted. So, first of all, it should be recalled that these are not regulations, Madam, concerning the agricultural system, this is a law which for 5 years stops the sale of the state stock of agricultural land. The corrigendum, then, is not what you're talking about. This law suspends the sale of agricultural real estate as part of the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury for 5 years. The rules have been introduced that only individual farmers may in principle be purchasers of agricultural property. Agricultural real estate can also be acquired through inheritance, as was the discussion during which you threatened that this would be impossible. Agricultural real estate which, on the date of the entry into force of the Act, in final decisions on the conditions for the construction and development of the land were intended for purposes other than agricultural and agricultural property with an area of less than 0,3 ha shall be freed from it. The amendment of the Law of 19 October 1991 on the management of agricultural real estate states: "Agricultural real estate from the Agricultural Property Resources of the Treasury will first be leased out or sold for the expansion or creation of family holdings. If you are talking about the situation that the land has been frozen, I would like to say to you that the lease mechanism has started to work very strongly. I'll let you know. If necessary, any tabular data will be provided to you. So it's not true what you said was that agricultural land was frozen. Another issue that can really cause some concern and they reach the Ministry of Agriculture. I personally fly it, I personally talk to those people who report these problems. The case concerns the amendment of the Law of 6 July 1982 on perpetual books and mortgage. There we have such a provision through the rules that the sum of the mortgage established on agricultural property must not exceed the value of the property. This regulation was intended, I would like to remind you, to enable the agency to exercise the right of pre-emption by excluding the earlier burden on the property concerned with excessive mortgages which are not intended to cover the market value of the property. And the practice was that three to four times the value was overpaid and entered into the mortgage. There's one more thing I want to remind you of. Here in this matter, practically speaking, we have not changed anything about the Civic Platform and PSL Act of August 2015. We are convinced that, in terms of the protection of farms against bankruptcy - I am thinking, above all, of agricultural holdings - this provision will lead to the fact that this protection will be stronger, they have transferred this provision to this law. We added that it would be necessary for an expert valuer to assess it, but in principle this has not been changed in relation to that law. Were there any problems? Yeah, there were problems. Some banks, I would like to say to you, Madam President, Members of the Commission, have ceased to grant mortgage loans, which were to be secured by agricultural property. According to Art. Article 68 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2a of the Act of 6 July 1982 on perpetual books and mortgages, the sum of the mortgage on, I repeat, agricultural property within the meaning of the Act of 11 April 2003 on the formation of the agricultural system must not exceed the market value of that property fixed at the date of the establishment of the mortgage. The new regulations introduced do not prevent agricultural property from being burdened with a mortgage in order to secure e.g. a loan to buy or build a house. The market value of agricultural property shall be determined by the court. The application for entry into the mortgage shall be accompanied by an estimated operation drawn up by the asset valuer in accordance with the property management rules. If this valuer determines the value of this plot, it seems to me, or actually I am convinced, that if the owner of the plot has decisions about the construction conditions, the building permit, starts the investment, this plot loses its agricultural character at all, because it will no longer be used agriculturally. So it gets more and more [[♪ The bell ♪]] I don't understand what's happened - although I can guess what's happened - to cause a partial blockade when it comes to mortgage lending. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u86	Thank you very much, Minister. Before I ask for a supplementary question, I would like to inform the High House that our deliberations are being listened to by young people from the General Schools Group today. Santa Copernicus in Zator, Karpia Valley. Young guests at the invitation of Mr Zbigniew Biernat. We cordially greet the young people of the Karpia Valley. [[Applause]] I would ask you to ask an additional question from the Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u87	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Of course, we can continue to play this political game, which doesn't mean that hundreds of people don't have problems. You can't explain that you copied a law that didn't come into force. That's not an argument to me. It is true that the law that was included in this law - and that is what I was talking about at the time when we were working on the law - is that only 100% The current value of the property can be entered into a mortgage, makes no one take risks, lends money to people without adequate collateral. It would only be necessary to increase, to note that such collateral is possible at the level of the value of the investment made, which is a natural expectation from who borrows money. And here I would really ask you not to look for a hole in the whole thing. Ready-made amendment in this case is already prepared by the Modern, already filed with the marshal. The solution is ready and can be quickly [[♪ The bell ♪]] The pace of helping people. The question is, do you want to stand? here over political divisions and not continue to participate in the political game that is going on.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u88	Thank you, Member. And I ask the Minister to answer the additional question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u89	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and We have the will, we have the courage, and we have an idea. Thank you for your idea, we'll analyze it. We have preliminary agreements with the Polish Bank Association. This is also information for you, especially for you. This shows that we respond immediately to situations that are. I would like to remind you that this law entered into force on 30 April, so it has been in operation for a month. On the website of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development there is a special icon: Ask a question to the minister, report a problem regarding the bill. We're analyzing all the problems that are being reported. I inform you that yesterday I had a meeting with representatives of the Polish Bank Association. We are at the stage of working together to find a solution that, as I said at the outset, will help people and will not disturb them. And just so you know, I want to give you something else, you know. I received the instruction today from 11 May 2016, I will not tell you which bank, how to deal with situations that you also describe. Interesting, I have to tell you, reading. I won't tell you, of course, what kind of bank it is, by keeping, let's say, such a situation, because the credibility of this bank could be undermined. This is really a very interesting, informative guide to advisors, what needs to be done so that they do not specifically facilitate. After yesterday's meeting I inform the High House, the topic is absolutely open, that together with the Polish Bank Association we will work out a good solution in a short time and these obstacles that have arisen will be removed. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u90	Thank you very much, Minister. I'm asking you to ask me another question. Mr Marek Suski and Mr Maciej Małecki, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, a question on the plans of the Minister of Treasury for companies in liquidation, bankruptcy and non-business. Minister Marek Zagórski will answer the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Treasury. Mr Maciej Małecki is the first question to be asked. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Among the companies of the Ministry of Treasury are such categories as in liquidation, bankruptcy and non-business. Please inform me how many of these companies are, what is their financial situation. I am aware that the Minister will not present the situation of all companies, but it is about general, aggregated information. Are there companies deviating in terms of financial situation, wealth, from such a state as bankruptcy, liquidation or liquidation? I'm talking about this because there are e.g. in this package. sulphur mines in Tarnobrzeg, a state-owned company, which owns three companies, among others. chemical plants employing 400 people. In view of the fact that the company of sulphur mines is in liquidation, is the Treasury taking any action concerning chemical plants and, above all, were the decisions of the previous management of the Ministry of the Treasury adequate to the situation and were those decisions taken in a proper manner? Next thing you know, the Industrial Institute of Construction Machinery, the owner of several hectares of armed areas in Kobyłka and the owner of a mechanical company in Biskupiec, it is a large estate - what steps have been taken in this regard? Does the Ministry have an idea for managing this area of companies after transferring the Industrial Development Agency to the Ministry of Development? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u92	Thank you, sir. Before I ask the Minister to speak, I would like to inform the High House that our deliberations are being listened to by young people from the School Group in Głogska Medyna. We greet the young people warmly. [[Applause]] Please respond to Minister Marek Zagórski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u93	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen! The Treasury Minister is now responsible for these categories of companies, which were asked by the Member, 153 companies and one state-owned company, including 45 companies which are in liquidation, with varying shares of the State Treasury, 65 companies, and with different shares of the State Treasury, which are in different stages of bankruptcy and are 43 companies with different shares of the State Treasury which do not operate. With regard to the latter two categories, namely bankruptcy or non-business, supervision and in general decision-making possibilities, the impact on what is happening to them, the Minister of Treasury is very limited, basically down to monitoring these processes in companies, although in some cases, which we are currently analysing, there is a suspicion that there is still some possibility of finding and doing something with these companies, where the situation is generally very complicated, because there are no longer companies, I am talking about companies in which the Treasury has a rather minority share and has no influence on what is happening. On the other hand, a completely separate category are companies which are in liquidation or entities which are in liquidation. In this category we have 23 companies with a 100% share of the State Treasury, one with a majority share of the State Treasury and 21 companies with a minority share of the State Treasury. Where we have a minority stake, our influence on what is happening, how the liquidation process is taking place is limited, although we are affecting it, and above all we are focusing on this group of 23 companies, which are in liquidation, in which the Treasury has a majority share. After analysing what was happening to them and what was happening to them, we separated 14 companies plus one state-owned company, where the validity of the liquidation process raises doubts, at least doubts, because these are companies that have very large assets. Sometimes they operate, as in the case of the sulphur mine in Tarnobrzeg, where the liquidation process lasted, it lasted for 16 years, where in addition to chemical plants there are still two companies that operate. In total, these companies employ more than 500 people, their revenues are over PLN 300 million, whether they are close to PLN 300 million per year, these are companies which bring very high profits. This is a company that's been in liquidation for 16 years. You also asked about Kobyłka, which is another example where the company itself, the institute is no longer active, although it was still operating a year ago, while it is the owner of mechanical plants in Biskubec, a small company but profitable, which also operates. The question is why the liquidation decisions were made. Let me put it this way: in some cases this was absolutely justified, because the company was already generating losses and there were no prospects, but there were also cases that the only reason for this liquidation was that there was no idea for this company, there was no idea for example. for privatisation. After this analysis, when we separated these companies, we decided that at least for 14 entities plus this state-owned company we would reverse the liquidation process and either we would re-create the normal business they are carrying out, or we would consolidate and create the entity that will deal with... One of these categories will be the entity that will deal with restructuring. It will also be an entity that will be used for the development of the remaining items, i.e. minority packages, which we have in companies. To illustrate what we are talking about: the book value of this property to which we have those companies, which we intend to reactivate at least partially and then consolidate, exceeds PLN 0.5 billion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u94	Thank you, Minister. The additional question will be asked by Mr Marek Suski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u95	Thank you, Minister, for your encouragement. Of course, a special programme of supervision of winding-up processes and the recovery of companies in bankruptcy is very interesting and necessary. And this is the first such attempt, as I recall, for many years, when it comes to the operation of the Ministry of the Treasury, because so far they were interested in either privatizing or dividing and leading to bankruptcy. This information about companies, where the bankruptcy process is prolonged, is indeed very interesting. I have a question about these companies with prolonged bankruptcy, where even after several years there is a bankruptcy, or actually the syndicate is the sole beneficiary, and creditors or even employees can't wait to receive their debts. Is there a special program for the ministry here, or maybe even a bill, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which would cause strict supervision and force within a reasonable period of time the bankruptcy or the extraction of such a company from bankruptcy and its recovery? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u96	Thank you, sir. I ask the Minister to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u97	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Speaker! High Izbo! Like I said, we're analyzing these cases. Unfortunately, they're not uniform. If we are talking about companies in bankruptcy, we have two categories: one where the bankruptcy was at the initiative of the founding body, the Minister of the Treasury, and one where it was at the initiative of creditors, that is, judicial bankruptcy. At the moment when the syndicate enters the company, our potential for influence on the company in its current legal state is limited. We're analyzing it, it's a whole analysis package at all. If it turns out that we have a systematic problem, constantly repeating, then we will definitely solve it by the so-called. A cleaning bill, that's what we call it, a law that will transfer the powers of the Treasury Ministry to other institutions. We're also going to adjust this thread. I mean, there's no way to shut it down completely. under the jurisdiction of the court, and we're certainly not gonna do this for five companies in bankruptcy, because maybe they're gonna be like that. If we identify the problems that are repetitive and identify that these problems are due to such and not to another legal solution, we will look at them. You often have to remember, too. that these companies which are in bankruptcy are later returned, therefore the basic category is that there are no funds for bankruptcy and the court dismisses the bankruptcy application and they return as liquidation companies and then these winding-up processes, if these are State Treasury companies, are co-financed by the Treasury Fund, which is the cost also, of course, for taxpayers. I repeat: the analysis is ongoing. The most important task for us, and that's it. the effect was to focus on the companies that have assets so that this property can be efficiently managed. We are already after the analysis stage, we are moving on to the implementation phase. The next step is to sort out the issues of liquidation companies and non-business companies. I can tell you that when it comes to companies that are not active, we've gone from 100 companies to 40. At the end of the year it will probably only be a dozen companies that will still be in stock, and it will already be such special cases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u98	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. Member of the Commission: Mr Marek Rząsa, Mrs Urszula Augustyn, Mr Walda Dzikowski and Mrs Izabela Katarzyna Mrzygłocka, the Civic Platform Club, have raised a question on the new organisational and functional structure of the Polish Gas Company sp. z o.o. and the situation in the companies Exalo Drilling SA, Geophysika Kraków SA, which are in the group of PGNiG SA - to the Minister of Treasury. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Treasury Mr Paweł Gruza will answer. Mrs Urszula Augustyn asks the first question. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! The question from which I will start will focus on the Polish Gas Company. About 3 years ago, six companies, which operated in different locations in the country, among others. Karpacka Gazownictwo Spółka Gazownictwo with its registered office in Tarnów was merged into a single creation, which was called the Polish Gas Company. So the logic of this action is good, that if such a consortium is well managed, then actually savings can be easily demonstrated, among others. that the orders are made from one place, that the staff and financial services are from one place. Somehow it's a weapon model, and it looks logical. It all happened okay. 3 years ago, i.e. six branches were created in place of existing companies, which jointly became part of the Polish Gas Company. In addition, of course, there were, there were employees who operated gas networks. According to how this gas network, technical infrastructure is built, employees worked. Therefore, e.g. Those who worked in the Tarnów branch continued to work and serve the inhabitants of the Podkarpacie region, Małopolska region, in part Lubelszczyzna and Silesia. Meanwhile, in the first half of May this year. The Management Board of the Polish Gas Company presented a new organisational structure of the company in Warsaw. Here we are surprised to learn that it is planned to liquidate these 6 branches, as well as 19 plants which have so far operated in the Polish Gas Company, and that 17 gas plants are planned to be established in their place, which would be located in the capitals of the various regions. At first glance, this would result in the fact that, first, the existing plants will be liquidated and, second, that the existing gas network system would not have been properly operated until now. [[♪ The bell ♪]] My question concerns the logic of such action. Does the Minister know anything about this? Would the Minister like to answer my question, what is the logic of eliminating well-functioning companies and transforming them into more branches located in the regions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u100	Thank you, Member. I'm asking the Minister to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u101	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Thank you for asking. The reform of the structure of the gas company results from several priorities adopted by the new management board. Firstly, the overarching objective is to increase the safety of network operation, to reduce operating costs, which are currently estimated at 60 million per year. And the social objective, the overarching objective - the changes in structure are not to lead to a reduction in employment, as opposed to the plans of the previous PSG Board, which was intended to release 1300 employees in 2016. It is worth noting that the PSG does not plan the liquidation of plants in Jasło, Sandomierz, Wałbrzych, Zgorzelec, Mińsk Mazowiecki, Ciechanów, Kalisz, Radom and the branch in Tarnów, but plans to turn these plants into gas plants. It should also be emphasised that this process will not result in a reduction in employment. The new structure is intended primarily to correspond to the administrative division of the country, which will simplify the company's cooperation with local authorities, which will also facilitate the absorption of EU funds and facilitate access to the company's services to customers. In addition, it should be noted that management efficiency will be increased, security of supply will be improved and that this will also be a return to the traditional three-level structure of the company. It should be noted that workshops are underway from 1 April to 15 June in which representatives of the company's headquarters, branches and the social side are taking part. During them a new organizational scheme of the company is created resulting from the gas industry tradition in Poland and adapted to the contemporary administrative realities of the country. The plans of the new Management Board officially supported the National Section for Petroleum Mining and Gas Industry (Solidarity). The letter in this case will be sent as an annex to the written reply. Also representatives of the National Trade Union of Petroleum Mining and Gas Industry in their position emphasize that the social side appreciates the fact that it is invited to co-create a new corporate governance. The way of dialogue with the social side is a certain novel appreciated by trade unions. The Management Board of PSG has repeatedly stressed its very critical assessment of the three voluntary schemes carried out in 2013 and 2015. The implementation of these programmes, according to the current Management Board, has led to the company being deprived of key employees with key competences, which undermines security of supply for citizens. On 6 and 7 June the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [6] laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 1). The Management Board of the PSG held meetings with employees of the Jasło plant and the branch in Tarnów during an away session in these cities. During the meetings the employees were presented a comprehensive concept of planned changes in the company with a particular emphasis on the positive results of the implementation of the new company strategy for employees. We therefore believe that your allegations and the arguments raised in the question are not reflected in the facts, because the objectives of the company and the changes in structure lead to the goals of saving jobs, simplifying cooperation with local authorities, facilitating access to services for customers, increasing management efficiency and improving security of supply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u102	Thank you, Minister. I would like to ask you an additional question by Mr Mark Rząsa. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u103	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! In the last paragraphs, you said you were saving jobs. In that case, how will you respond to the situation regarding the dismissal of nearly 900 people from Exalo Drilling in the coming days? That's a 30% reduction. It will significantly reduce the company's search potential and make it more difficult to maintain permanent extraction in the country, which is also included in the PGNiG strategy for the period 2002-2014. Is the Minister familiar with the situation at Exalo Drilling? What is the Ministry's intention to take to help out of this crisis situation? The second point concerns the situation in Geofizyka Kraków, which was placed under the management of the competitive Geofizyka Toruń company. From day one, the Toruń Management Board has been doing everything it can to destroy the Geophysics of Kraków. It is detrimental to it, giving up entirely the signing of pre-negotiated contracts for the performance of works that have been carried out. These actions destroy the efforts and commitment put in place over the past year and a half by all employees in the rescue of this company. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I wanted to ask you if you are familiar with the situation in Geophysics, and what are you going to do? I also wanted to ask you about the good change and password we listen to people. How do we listen to people's slogan about the fact that Geophysics employees have received a categoric ban on speaking about their company? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u104	Thank you, sir. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u105	Thank you for asking. As far as Exalo Drilling is concerned, it must be accepted that the situation in the drilling, oil and gas markets is difficult due to the significant price reductions of these raw materials. This reduces the demand for upstream services, which obviously translates into the situation of our company - Exalo Drilling. The changes that are taking place in the company are, of course, consulted with the social side. However, the situation is that the Management Board has decided to make exemptions which are intended to reduce excessive, in the light of the normative, the number of persons employed on specific drillings. We agree that the situation is difficult. Of course, the Treasury Department knows the case and we're monitoring it. On the other hand, with regard to the Geophysics of Krakow, the situation is, it can be said, heavier due to the long-standing negligence of previous boards in the company. The financial situation of the company is very bad not to say: dramatic. The accumulated losses are generated, such as those not avoided for the previous management board: in 2012 it is almost 16 million, in 2013 it is almost 10 million, in 2014 it is almost 10 million, in 2015 it is 22 million. For the first 4 months of 2016, this is already a loss of PLN 9 million. The previous board made very strange decisions. I have a list of those decisions ahead of me. Sam, judging these business decisions, I really think they're highly questionable. In the situation of a limited order portfolio, buying a modern SAP system for 6 million PLN is considered unnecessary at least. Claims for consulting services purchased by the company were paid before the date, while other key or critical outsourcing claims were not paid. Investment purchases were made without financial coverage when the company knew that it would not pay. People were fired in order to reduce costs, after which they were employed for higher-value temporary employment contracts. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So here's the idea... Excuse me, Marshal, one more sentence.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u106	You're welcome, Minister. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Treasury Paweł Gruza: There was a collision that eliminated PGNiG from the Indian market. This, in my opinion, is also a very significant fact. Geophysics of Kraków appeared in a tender that eliminated Geophysics of Toruń, which excludes PGNiG as a cartel already at this point from the Indian market for several years ahead. There's clearly no coordination. The actions of the current government, as seen by the Treasury Ministry, are aimed at coordinating these activities and using the good order portfolio of Torun to support and save Krakow in some way. Thank you. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Minister, I'll be obliged to answer your questions in writing.]] I'd like to ask you another question. Member State Gabriela Masłowska, Barbara Bubula and Jacek Falfus, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, ask a question about the loan needs of the State in 2016 - the extent to which they are met, the conduct of existing auctions, the sale of bonds on the domestic and foreign markets and the demand that has been reported for Polish securities. The question is addressed to the Minister of Finance. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Mr Piotr Nowak will answer. The first question is asked by Mrs Gabriela Masłowska. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u107	Minister! What was the loan needs of the State in 2016? What was their amount and structure? Was the sale of our bonds smooth, normal? As a result of the reform of the insurance system or the changes in the insurance system that have taken place in recent years, open pension funds are prohibited from acquiring bonds and so far the percentage of bonds purchased by OFE has been quite large. How did this affect the structure of our debt? Has the share of foreign claims, foreign funds, foreign banks and other entities increased or did this not affect the structure of this debt, broken down by domestic and foreign debt? If this is the case, how do you feel about it? Is it safe for us, and how safe, harmless, or does it make us more dependent on foreign capital, which is more demanding and therefore the cost of debt management is also increasing? Has the demand for our Polish securities been met or were there problems with the sale of our securities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u108	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of the Minister. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u109	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and As far as the question is concerned, I will answer that the data I will be giving are data as of 8 June 2016, i.e. practically yesterday. According to the 2016 Budget Act, the lending needs of the gross state budget amount to PLN 182.7 billion, of which the net needs are PLN 74.7 billion, while the redemption of the outstanding debt is PLN 108 billion. As of yesterday's day, funding already amounted to PLN 123.8 billion, which means that the level of funding for this year's gross needs is 68%. Today is another auction, the results are probably already there, I don't know yet, but today it was a sale from 3 to 4 billion PLN, so this will improve, will be financed most of it. As regards the sources of funding, they are as follows. National is PLN 89.7 billion, which represents 72.5% in the financing structure. If we divide this, that is: the sale of wholesale bonds on tenders, i.e. generally for financial institutions - the revenue obtained amounted to PLN 68.1 billion, the sale of retail bonds - it is PLN 1.9 billion, pre-financing in 2015 for this year - a higher level of PLN 3.3 billion and a tender for the exchange of bonds falling this year - PLN 16.4 billion. As far as foreign funding is concerned, this year we financed PLN 34.1 billion, which is 27,5% in this structure so far. This is the distribution that there were issued bonds denominated in euro and in a dollar worth a total of EUR 4 billion, i.e. about PLN 17.4 billion, and pre-financing in 2015 was at the level of EUR 3.2 billion, i.e. approximately PLN 13.6 billion, and the redemption of bonds falling this year was at the level of EUR 0.7 billion, i.e. approximately PLN 3.1 billion. Since the beginning of the year, nine bonds were sold, today it was 10, and one bond swap contract, on which bonds with a nominal value of PLN 70.2 billion were sold together. The total demand for these bonds amounted to PLN 116.6 billion, so the average supply-to-supply ratio was 1.7 and it was higher than the average for last year, because last year it was 1.6 and this year - 1.7 so far, we see that the demand relative to supply is even greater than last year, so we see a positive and positive direction, so to say, taking us as a country by investors. The sales structure was dominated by fixed-rate bonds, which was 81%. The share of floating bonds was 17% , and inflation-indexed bonds - 2%. In addition, since the beginning of the year, three government bonds have been tendered as part of liquidity management, on which vouchers with a nominal value of PLN 6.5 billion have been sold. They are not a source of funding for the needs for 2016, because they are collapsing this year. Bons haven't been issued in the last 2 years, because of liquidity needs we've resumed this this year, three pilots have been such emissions so far. In terms of foreign financing, Poland has carried out two issues on the euro market since the beginning of the year with a total nominal value of EUR 2.5 billion, at the current rate of approximately PLN 10.8 billion, and one issue on the US market in dollars worth USD 1.75 billion, that is about PLN 6.5 billion. The total demand for these bonds developed at euro level, respectively - 3.3 billion euros, dollars - 3.6 billion dollars. The structure of the buyers was diversified, which makes us happy, because it is also important how the structure of demand is shaped, the structure of investors, because it is a big difference whether there are pension funds, investment funds or central banks sometimes, or speculative capital, these so-called. hedge funds, which we do not see much at home, and this is a very good signal. In the case of euro emissions, euro area players, in particular Germany, have just had the largest share. In institutional terms, banks, investment funds, a large share of pension funds and insurance institutions, i.e. the so-called. stable investors - that's what they say in this slang: deep pocket - which is very good and safe. In the case of dollar issue, bond buyers were mainly US investors and the key share of long-term investors managing powerful assets in the US market has just been recorded. [[Interest rate.]] We'll get to that in a minute. As regards the structure of the Treasury's debt in 2016, the financing structure implemented allowed for a reduction in exchange rate risk - the share of foreign currency debt decreased from 34.9% at the end of 2015 to around 34% at the end of May this year, therefore by 0.9% the share of debt in foreign currencies has decreased. The public debt management strategy adopted by the Council of Ministers provided for a further gradual reduction in the share of debt in foreign currencies, ultimately below 30%. And in this direction we're going to go, but we just have to do it calmly, not abruptly, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I don't want to disturb you. The share of non-residents in sovereign debt fell from 58.1% at the end of 2015 to some 53.8% at the end of April this year. Since the beginning of the year, the debt refinancing risk has also been reduced - the average maturity of the national debt increased from 4,27 at the end of 2015 to 4,32 at the end of May. The strategy assumes a continued average maturity of the national debt of at least 4 years, so we see that there is already this margin, while ultimately we want to be 4.5 years old and we are going in this direction. The average maturity of the entire Treasury debt is now 5.35 years, while the strategy assumes that it should be above 5 so we have this safe buffer. In total debt we include currency debt, which is on average much longer than that denominated in Polish currency. About...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u110	Minister, maybe there'll be an opportunity to answer that after an additional question. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Piotr Nowak: Okay, thank you very much. The additional question is asked by Mrs Bubula. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u111	Thank you very much. The Minister has said a great deal about good changes, both in terms of the structure between the part of debt abroad and the part of national debt and who purchases our bonds. I would therefore just like to ask for more detail and maybe point out what the prospects for the future are, i.e. both with regard to this part of the loan needs of the State which we still have to finance this year and with regard to the budget of the next year, if the Minister can already say something about it. I mean, what kind of trends will the ministry continue? Will this structure be changed more to domestic debt and to what extent? And what about those who are our contractors in buying bonds? Are we going to try to direct them to those who are called deep pockets, that is, those more stable buyers of our bonds? And collapse. To what extent is the extension of this maturity foreseen for the future? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u112	Thank you, Member. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u113	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and We've got 68% financed. this year's needs, so there is 32% left, or about PLN 60 billion. If the conditions are good at the end of this year, we'll probably start pre-financing for 2017. As far as the total needs for next year are concerned, they are not yet known, because the work on the budget is only in the early stages. When it comes to diversifying investors, yes, we care very much about it, because we are interested in making them so-called. Deep pockets, not weight hands or fast money that generate volatility on the market. It's not good, we don't want it. On the other hand, we are also open to foreign investors, precisely those long-term central banks from Asia or Japanese pension funds, because the greater the supply of potential capital, the lower the price of money is, so profitability is much lower for this reason. As far as the financing of currency needs for this year is concerned, practically everything has already been financed, so there is no need. The media has been reporting for some time that we want to issue bonds on the Chinese local market in yuan. We're getting closer. Last week we were already visiting China, we had a meeting with the central bank, with regulators, with investors. This is very beneficial for us, because under the current conditions, if we had issued such bonds and swapped them into euro, we would have been very close to zero or maybe even profitability would have been negative, but that depends on the way things are going with Great Britain, with Brexit as a whole. This also has a positive effect because we would be the first European country to issue bonds on the local market, because so far it was only South Korea and British Columbia. This market is only opening up and thanks to the fact that we have an ever better relationship with China, we may be able to get this privilege and be the first European country to emit it, and thus Chinese investors, who have powerful capital, will slowly adapt to the credit risk of Poland, because it is still a relatively small country for them and quite distant for financial investors. We have the first positive reactions and we hope that over time they will also come for our government bonds in Polish gold, so it will be very positive received. We're looking into it. We have also visited investors this year on the east coast of the United States to make them aware of the economic and political situation in our country, because the messages do not always seem to reflect reality, and this also affects investor sentiment. The same was true in Asia - Japan, Singapore, Malaysia, Indonesia - we also talked to the central banks there. The reception is positive and they are sending us signals that they are still interested in being on our market, and these are long-term investors, so we see really very good prospects. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u114	Thank you, Minister. I'm asking you to ask me another question. Mr Janusz Cichoń and Mr Bożena Szydłowska, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, ask a question about the protest of customs officers and the associated difficulties at border crossing points. This is a question for the Minister of Finance. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Minister Marian Banaś, will answer. You are the first question asked by Janusz Silchoń. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u115	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Customs officials oppose the merger with the tax administration, they want to stop working on the reform of the National Tax Administration. They're worried about getting fired after they set up the KAS. They also want to bring into force the ruling of the Constitutional Court that the Customs Service should be part of the pension system of uniformed services. Here, let me remind you, the PiS promised them support, and the officers are increasingly determined, promising paralysis of the whole country, threatening to paralyze the border crossings completely. We remember what it looked like in 2009. The thorough checks are to be combined with mass applications for leave and sick leave, and a sample of what borders may look like in customs protests, we have had for a few days, for example. about the transition with Russia in Kaliningrad region - today 30 hours. In fact, it is enough to carefully and thoroughly check trucks to block the borders completely in a few hours, and paradoxically, these thorough checks on the one hand serve to improve tax efficiency, and on the other hand, which, in my opinion, is no less important, also serve our safety. I would therefore like to ask whether the government will give up its plans to create a KAS to take over the competences of the Customs Service or whether it is considering at least a possible exclusion of the Customs Service from the KAS. Finally, whether the government will implement the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal stating that the three articles of the Law on Pensions of Uniform Services are incompatible with the Constitution, [[♪ The bell ♪]] and the distinction between the legal situation of Customs officers and other uniformed services is unacceptable, arbitrary, discriminatory? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u116	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u117	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, To answer the first question, whether the government will give up plans to create a National Tax Administration, I will say: the government will not give up because it is one of the elements of public finance recovery. Currently, tax administration, fiscal control and Customs have a distributed structure, as we all know in three independently functioning verticals, and are unable to perform their tasks effectively and are very costly. In relation to other European countries, our costs are 1.6 in relation to the revenue generated, and in other countries it is 0.7 and 0.8. That's what he says for himself. In the tax and customs administration, there is a duplication of certain tasks related to the collection of tax and customs duties within the individual services, for example. checks on the correctness of the implementation of tax and customs obligations. The establishment of the National Tax Administration opens the way to improving the entire tax system and the measures taken are aimed at improving the efficiency and optimisation of structures. Institutional reform is only one element - as I have already said - of the system repair process, in addition to changes in law, e.g. so-called. the fuel package, the amendment of the VAT Act and the amendment of the Act on Gambling, the anti-tax avoidance clause, and the IT tools that are currently scattered are not integrated, and without a common database, we are not able to quickly control those involved in VAT fraud. That is why they have an advantage over us, because within a few weeks they can set up an entity that they then liquidate, and we are just carrying out a check and we find that VAT fraud has been carried out. Reform is necessary in the face of an existing large tax gap, where the rate is 26%. , while, ladies and gentlemen, in the European Union it is on average 15% , e.g. in the Netherlands, 4%. These are the facts that speak for themselves and clearly tell us that we need to make a thorough reform, above all, in the structure, but not only in legislation, which is already being done, and work in this area is going very intensively. With regard to the question, how many customs workers will lose their jobs in the event of the liquidation of the Customs Service, I would like to say that there will be no liquidation of the Customs Service, it is just a transformation into a new structure. All the officers who work at the borders, in mobile groups, that is, those officers who are actually investigating crimes, will find employment as officers, because in the new structure we will create a strong pawn combined with tax intelligence, which will have a tool to deal with really big frauds, not small cases that are expensive and do not have any effect on the budget. The National Tax Administration will be based on existing staff resources, as I said. It is assumed that experienced and substantively prepared officers and employees will find employment in the new structure of the KAS, except for those who will move to their pensions. Ladies and gentlemen, there are about 5,000 of these people, so there is no fear that any of the employees currently employed, contrary to what is claimed, will lose their jobs, will receive job offers. Optimisation of employment can therefore be achieved in full, as I said, naturally, by exempting people of retirement age from employees employed in tax offices, tax offices and customs officials. The Ministry of Finance is interested in the most effective use of existing personnel. This means building on the activities of the emerging service on the knowledge, involvement and experience of those who are already working in the structures of the finance minister. The assignment of tasks to individual persons currently employed in tax control offices, in Customs and in tax administration will be based on the needs of the KAS units and the employment of these persons so far, so as to obtain a modern, uniform and, above all, a very efficient and effective service in the National Tax Administration. As regards pension rights, the acquisition of pension rights in respect of Customs officers, I would like to say that the Council of Ministers is working on a draft position of the Government vis-à-vis the citizens of the bill amending the Act on Pension Supply of Police Officers, Internal Security Agency, Intelligence Agency, Military Counterintelligence Service, Military Intelligence Service, Central Anti-corruption Office, Border Guards, Government Protection Office, State Fire and Prison Service and some other laws, this is print No. 30. This draft law aims to implement the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 3 March 2015. The draft position of the Government towards the citizens of the draft law will be the subject of a permanent committee of the Council of Ministers meeting on 9 June. In the opinion of the Government, two models of determination of the right to a uniform pension for Customs officers are acceptable, taking into account only an internship in the Customs Service from 15 September 1990 after the following conditions have been met: at least 55 years of age and 15 years of service in the performance of the tasks referred to in Article. 2 (2) Point 1 (4) (6) of the Customs Service Act in the case of customs officers who have entered the service before 1 January 2013 and the second option is to reach the age of at least 55 years and to work for at least 25 years in the performance of the tasks referred to in Article. 2 (2) 1 Customs Service Act [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the case of Customs officers who entered the service after 31 December 2015 And I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that we have no objections, we want to grant these pensions, but to those officers who are actually available 24 hours and who have carried out the tasks referred to by the Constitutional Court's judgment. On the other hand, those officers who have performed normal tasks, like any other employee in the civil service, these pensions, in our view, should not be granted, because this would be in line with the principles of social justice as regards other professional groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u118	Thank you, Minister. And I'd like to ask you for an additional question. Mrs Bożena Szydłowska, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u119	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, I'd like to ask you an additional question. Since reorganisation is inevitable, I would like to ask, because customs officers are - yesterday we had the opportunity to find out - very dissatisfied, because since 2014. Law and Justice have assured them and confirmed that they will strengthen Customs Service, and at the moment we have 14,000. customs staff. After the reform, 5800 people will be employed, so Customs will be decimated. Then I suspect that there will still be an escalation of this dissatisfaction. Does the government therefore have an idea and how it would like to prevent possible paralysis at border crossing points, because it is not enough that they will be for this purpose, [[♪ The bell ♪]] If such paralysis occurs, lower budget revenues, will our security be compromised? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u120	Thank you, and I'm asking for your answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u121	I would like to say that in the Customs Service, on 7 and 8 June, there was an absence of customs officers resulting from sick leave and on-demand leave. The abstraction concerned mainly internal units, at border crossings during those days there was and is a full staff cast. The average absenteeship of 7 and 8 June in the border chambers was 15% , and in the internal chambers about 30%, and so, ladies and gentlemen, the vast majority of officers perform their tasks in a robust and responsible manner. Border crossings functioned and functioned properly. There are no queues and no obstacles. About an hour. On 8 June, only a few crossings on the border section with Ukraine had a maximum waiting time of 3 hours. There was no queue on any of the border crossings in truck traffic. From 2 June, at all border crossing points, the level of control has been increased due to the upcoming NATO Summit and World Youth Day, and I have given this order to all officers. In order to perform properly, and this is about security mainly for us, for the whole society, even at the expense of longer queues, the statutory tasks imposed on the Customs Service during the planned NATO Summit and the World Youth Days, as well as during the period immediately preceding them from 2 June, are undertaken in customs units serving border crossings in land, air, rail and sea traffic increased control activities, including. by increasing the level of control of goods, means of transport and persons, increasing the personnel resources involved in direct control of goods, means of transport and persons, making optimum use of the control tools available, working with the relevant Border Guard units. These activities relate in particular to increasing the level of control in areas related to the security of trade in goods with foreign countries, the infringement of the provisions concerning the introduction into Poland and the importation from the territory of the Republic of Poland of goods subject to restrictions, marketing bans for reasons of security and public order or international security, including weapons, ammunition, explosives precursors, narcotic drugs, psychotropic drugs, chemical preparations, violation of the rules against health and restriction of trade in goods, technologies of strategic importance for State security, and to the maintenance of international peace and security, irregularities in compliance with customs and tax obligations. In the internal chambers, organisational solutions and staff shifts are undertaken to eliminate obstacles to the operation of business customers. Emergency procedures are triggered in urgent and sensitive situations, and we have such procedures, as well as safeguards. At the moment, there are no complaints from the business environment and carriers regarding the negative effects as regards the situation in the Customs Service, and, as I say, there is no concern that normal procedures and actions concerning the tasks performed will not be carried out as planned. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and expected tasks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u122	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u123	Mr. Marshal, I have a request, because the escalation of conflict with customs officers is possible and paralysis at the crossings is also possible, in the light of the events to take place in Poland - the World Youth Days, I will ask for a written reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u124	Thank you, Member. The question will now be asked by Mrs Anna Czech and Mr Tomasz Latos on the order of the Attorney General to set up at the level of regional and district prosecutors departments for medical errors resulting in the death of a patient or serious injury to the Minister of Justice. Mr Bogdan Święczkowski and Secretary of State in the Ministry of Justice, Minister Michał Wójcik, are responsible for the first Deputy Prosecutor General of the National Prosecutor. The first question is asked by Mrs Anna Czech.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u125	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Gentlemen of Ministers! Currently, cases relating to medical errors may be handled by: the ombudsman of professional responsibility of doctors acting on the basis of the provisions of the Act on Competition of Doctors and Dentist, secondly, the ombudsman of patient rights acting under the Act on the Rights of the Patient and the ombudsman, thirdly, the committees for the judgment of medical events, fourthly, civil courts in the event of a case against a patient or his family, fifthly criminal courts in public or private prosecution, sixthly, the Minister of Health in the framework of the powers arising from the Act on Medical Activity and seventhly, medical entities which are required to notify after having informed the suspect of a medical error of the ombudsman of professional liability of doctors or district prosecutors. An important reason for delays in dealing with medical errors cases both in the investigation and later in criminal proceedings, as well as in civil proceedings and proceedings in the proceedings before the professional ombudsman of doctors and voivodship committees on medical incidents is the extremely long waiting time for the opinion of judicial experts or the opinion of a scientific or research institute. On the one hand, this is due to a limited number of experts in many fields of medicine needed to deliver an opinion and, on the other hand, to a large number of ongoing cases. Question: "Do you think that the above mentioned authorities are insufficient to ensure proper supervision of medical personnel?" [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u126	The answer will be given to the national prosecutor Bogdan Święczkowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u127	Dear Marshal, High Seym! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Regulation of the Minister of Justice of 7 April 2016 provides for the possibility of creating separate organisational units of the prosecutor's office dealing with medical errors. This is also due to the adoption by the High House of a new law on the prosecution, which allows prosecutors to specialise in cases involving different types of crime. According to these new solutions, the departments or prosecutors were appointed in all regional prosecutors' offices and in all district prosecutors' offices, among others. independent departments for medical errors were established in Warsaw and Katowice, Krakow and Lublin, and the other regional prosecutors were appointed coordinators. What made it necessary to establish such a new, separate structure specializing in medical errors? This resulted in the result of an inspection carried out in the former Public Prosecutor's Office in 2015, which showed that 60% the medical error cases examined were not justified by the decision to dismiss those proceedings. Only 40% the dismissals of these proceedings have been assessed as valid. In 2015, a total of 3394 procedures were conducted for offences of direct risk of loss of life or serious injury to health by doctors. Ladies and gentlemen, only 4% of these cases ended with an indictment or an application for punishment under Article. 335 Code of Criminal Procedure. This makes it necessary to create a specialized structure that will deal with errors in the medical arts. The fact is that these procedures are complicated and often require medical advice. To date, this area has caused serious problems, particularly as regards the long-term preparation of these opinions, but above all as regards finding an appropriate team of experts to prepare these medical opinions. The fact that we are creating this new section of the medical error prosecutor's office also allows us to establish close contacts and relations, as well as formal legal relations, with various research institutes or institutions dealing with medical issues in order to create such teams of experts for the prosecution. So, ladies and gentlemen, of course, such action is taken by the Attorney General - Minister of Justice Zbigniew Zioba to achieve the intended goal. Finally, the D.A.'s office is not involved in ensuring proper supervision of the medical staff. On the other hand, in the course of the preparatory procedure, if the prosecutor sees various types of errors, shortcomings in supervision or in the work of medical personnel, he may send appropriate signals to the appropriate institution, including the Minister of Health, to change the procedure or procedures concerning these matters. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u128	The additional question is asked by Mrs Anna Czech, club Law and Justice. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u129	Thank you very much. Minister, I haven't heard the exact answer, but the prosecution has been evaluated, and I think 60% of them are bailouts. Who was judging that? That's my question. The second, additional, is: Is it envisaged, in order to significantly reduce the waiting time for experts on medical errors, to amend the rules on the procedures of the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Code of Civil Procedure, as well as the possible change in the rates of remuneration of experts or how to determine the remuneration of experts? I think that this could also help to improve the pace of the procession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u130	Thank you very much. Mr. Bogdan Święczkowski again responds.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u131	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Mrs. Member! As for the second question, Minister Wójcik will answer the Deputy Minister of Justice, and as for the data I have provided, 60% will answer the question. cases decommitted have been assessed as unduly decommitted. On the other hand, about this number of several thousand cases, which I have pointed out, concerning medical errors only 4% These cases have been referred to an indictment or an application for punishment. Thus, 96% of these proceedings were terminated or suspended or, for example, a request for conditional termination of proceedings has been made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u132	Thank you very much, Mr. District Attorney. Mr Michał Wójcik, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, will now answer the second question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u133	Mr. Marshal! Mr. District Attorney! Ladies and gentlemen! To answer your question, I must start with what I usually start with when there are questions about the justice system. Today, the justice system in Poland trusts only 25% of citizens. This is a very low percentage and one of the elements of the whole system... If we are to fix this system of justice in various aspects, we need to fix, among others. that is all that concerns the functioning of an expert body in the judicial system. This is due, among other things. from the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber, which misjudged the actions of the Ministry of Justice in 2012 and 2014. It has been pointed out that no comprehensive research has been undertaken, that there is widespread chaos in the judiciary, that in some courts there are the names of experts from the 1960s, imagine. Therefore, it was ordered that a special report be prepared by the Institute of Justice. This report, today I can tell you, will be ready in August and this report will show us some directions for the necessary changes in the institution of the judiciary. Case number two. She asked if there would be amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Code of Civil Procedure. We do not anticipate changes because we believe that these regulations are good. Another matter concerns how they are sometimes applied, but I do not get into this subject. On the other hand, there will certainly be a new normative act that will regulate the functioning of the expert body. It's gonna be a bill, it's not gonna be a regulation anymore. At the moment, the work is being done in the Justice Department, and I even have a working version here. I think after some consultation... Such consultations will be conducted, among others. with the professional government of doctors to show the best directions of solutions in terms of experts. As the National Attorney has already said, there aren't enough experts. We don't have much, for example. doctors with very specialised knowledge, and on the other hand we do not have a good verification system, who should really be expert. So in my opinion... At least I'll try hard to convince the Minister of Justice, the Attorney General of the Minister of Justice, Zbigniew Ziebra, to [[♪ The bell ♪]] bend down, among others. over solutions in other countries. In the Netherlands, after a series of scandalous judgments, a reform of experts was carried out and verified there within a short period of time, for example. 600 people and 200 people fell out of the system, about 20%. Specially new solutions have been prepared, but various types of elements have been taken into account: expertise, first, ethical elements, second, and thirdly, what is interesting in the Netherlands, is that the expert can prepare his opinions in a clear, clear language, present his opinions as extremely important documents. So that I inform you that as far as rates are concerned, I am not addressing this question for the time being, it is premature and at this point I would like to conclude this speech. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u134	Thank you very much, Minister. We are approaching the final question on current matters. Iwona Michalek, Lidia Burzyńska and Joanna Borowiak ask them. The first question is asked by Mrs Iwona Michalek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u135	Dear Marshal, Minister! After the liquidation of the so-called. card hours, the elimination of the very expected teacher environment as a result of the recording of the article so far. Article 42 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 point 2 of the Teacher Charter, to the parliamentarians, not only to me, many parliamentarians are informed that, in exchange for the abolition of these additional hours, certain local authorities, and thus some directors, will plan other mandatory activities in a larger dimension than that laid down in Article. Article 42 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 and paragraph 3. 7 point 3 of the Teacher's Card. Such a situation occurred in one of the municipalities of Kujawsko-Pomorskie Voivodeship from my district, where the directors reached the so-called. general rules for the preparation of school organisation sheets for the 2016/17 school year for primary and secondary schools. These general principles shall be prepared by the lead authority and sent to its subordinate directors. In this case, this document, which I am referring to, was assessed as unlawful and will be sent, even perhaps already, to the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodeship in order to examine the legality of this document. The suggestion by the authorities to allocate fixed hours free of charge to teachers in the weekly school curriculum is contrary to the applicable rules. This is simply unacceptable. Therefore, as such practices are, I have a question. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is this a way for schools to interfere with the work of subordinate educational institutions? I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u136	Thank you very much, Member. She corresponds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of National Education, Minister Marzenna Drab. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u137	Mr. Marshal! Dear Members, Madam President, of course this is against the law. I'm going to give you some information here, and I think this will sort of explain the whole thing. Since we know that such matters are affecting your Members, I would also like to inform you that such worrying questions are directly addressed to the Minister of National Education. I'm bringing it up. In accordance with the Article. Article 42 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The Teacher Card Act The weekly working time of a full-time teacher is up to 40 hours. Within this working time and the fixed remuneration, the teacher is required to carry out the three types of activities referred to in the following points in the article. Article 42 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 of the above-mentioned Act. First of all, these are educational, caring and teaching classes, so-called. pension, statutory classes and preparation for classes and professional improvement. With regard to statutory classes, because this is what we are talking about and this raises many questions and inaccuracies, from 1 September 2016 the article will be in force. Article 42 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 point 2 of the Teacher's Charter Act as follows: Other activities and activities arising from the statutory tasks of the school, including caring and educational activities taking into account the needs and interests of the pupils. From 1 September 2016, primary and secondary school teachers, including special schools, and teachers of upper secondary schools, including special schools, will be freed from the obligation to carry out the so-called. card hours in the current formula. They will not have to account for these hours during the half-yearly periods, and this has been the time so far, possibly working off activities that were not held due to the absence of the teacher. The directors will also cease to account for, among other things. from the readiness to work as a teacher, which was also fiction when the teacher wanted to do classes, but there were no students. In primary schools and junior high schools in the classrooms, there will be activities only by teachers employed in the educators' positions. This is provided for in the Act that only a teacher who is qualified will be able to conduct classes in the classrooms. There can't be any rotation around here for someone random to take care of. According to this provision, the teacher will be obliged to implement, inter alia, the 40-hour working week and the salary received. care and education activities that take into account the needs and interests of students. However, in the light of the article. Article 42 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Section 2 of the Teacher Charter Act The assignment of such activities and activities cannot be used by the Director - I stress this very strongly - to replace teachers who should perform these activities or pursue classes within the mandatory weekly dimension of the course. The establishment by the school head of specific tasks of a teacher within the meaning of other activities and activities arising from the statutory tasks of a school must take account of the need to enable such teacher to carry out all the duties referred to in Article. Article 42 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 2 of the Teacher's Card. During the transition period, because this is probably also an overinterpretation and over-exploitation of this, until the entry into force of the system solution, i.e. until 1 September of this year, on the abovementioned year. activities which the Director considers very necessary, reported by teachers - the needs of pupils here will be taken into account - motivational allowances should be used. Such resources are available to directors. And this motivational supplement has really lost its value today. This is the moment when the director should start looking more closely at everything and, if necessary, motivate his employees properly. Students staying in the common room - at the moment I am referring to the commonplaces - must have constant care. For this purpose, the school principal employs educators who have a weekly compulsory period of 26 hours. I would stress: this is the weekly dimension of the day care course. Teachers can also have a weekly compulsory dimension of teaching, education or caring activities for hours of work in the classroom. In this case, due to the fulfilment of the obligations laid down for posts with different weekly mandatory hours, Article will apply to determine the weekly mandatory dimension of the teacher's classes. Article 42 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 7 point 3 of the Teacher's Card. I would also like to add that according to the article. 35 of the Teacher Charter Act in special cases, dictated solely by the need to implement the curriculum, the teacher may be obliged to do paid work in accordance with his specialty in over-sized hours, the number of which may not exceed one-quarter of the weekly dimension. A higher number of over-sized hours may only be allocated to the teacher with his consent, but the number may not exceed 1/2 weeks of mandatory hours. And, of course, there's an extra salary for a teacher here.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u138	Thank you very much, Minister. The additional question is asked by Mrs Lidia Burzyńska from the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u139	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I know the rule of art. 42. The changes that were adopted were dictated only by the choice of meeting the expectations of teachers, because in fact these two hours of card was just bureaucracy, because the full-time teacher has a class dimension of up to 40 hours. On the other hand, we cannot forget, Minister, that, however, schools have their privileges, so to speak. In the opinion of the Minister, is it possible, with such a broad interpretation of this change, that the Ministry of National Education will issue a communication addressed to these units, the authorities leading them to interpret these records unambiguously? And one more thing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Does the Minister here see the role of voivodeships and curators of education in order to counter similar practices within their supervisory powers? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u140	Thank you very much. She again corresponds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of National Education, Mrs Marzenna Drab. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u141	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Membership! Thank you very much for this question, because it is actually a clue around which we are discussing today. Ladies and gentlemen, breaking the law is not a privilege. The body constituting... We're talking about the lead organ here, I'm sorry, about JST. This authority has clear records to read in the bill and to be implemented. There's nothing special out there that needs an interpretation. I would like to inform you that on 25 May the Minister of National Education sent a letter to all school curators with information on how to read directly accepted provisions of the Act. Ladies and gentlemen, in the area of pedagogical supervision, the education curator is responsible. If such situations are taking place, which the Member here at the moment informs you that there is simply a breach of the law, then such matters should be reported to the school curator. The school curator then enters with control - it may be a super-planned control - determines the facts and when he finds that the law is being violated, is incompatible with the law of the whole organisation of the year, he makes a decision in which he states and recommends how the school head should behave as well as the host body. Of course, the voivode is the next instance here, but the first word - I really think it's so final - has a probation officer. If recommendations are made, unfortunately also the school principal, and the host body should simply correct this. Ladies and gentlemen, may I just say here that according to Art. 34 Education Laws if the school or institution or the managing authority carries out its activities in breach of the rules, and we are talking about such a case here, the pedagogical supervisor, the curator, may recommend by decision to remedy the deficiencies within the prescribed time limit. And now I'd like to quote you here... So first it is a recommendation, and when it is not removed, it is already a rigorous recommendation. I hope, ma'am, that what we are trying at this moment as the Ministry of National Education to introduce, i.e. to strengthen pedagogical supervision, this is exactly the way it is, is to eliminate such matters from life. I would like to say this: the overinterpretation of this provision is at least puzzling and significant, [[♪ The bell ♪]] because before 2009 and we return to it, there was a similar situation and there was no abuse. Today, abuse occurs in some local governments. I hope this doesn't happen. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u142	Thank you very much, Minister. This question concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that at this meeting of the Sejm information on the functioning of the law on the suspension of the sale of property of the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury and on the amendment of certain laws, which was introduced by Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be discussed. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Robert Telus.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u143	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I have the great honour on behalf of the Law and Justice Club to be the Member of the applicant, to represent the applicants as part of the current information. Today, after a month of operation of the new law, we would like a law on stopping the sale of property of the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury and on amending certain laws, a law which is very important and makes many changes, both structural ones and those concerning the sale of our Polish land... This information, which we asked the Minister for, is important to us, because we want to take very much care of this Polish land, we want the law to function well, so that the Polish land is well secured. We know that this bill raises a lot of doubts and many discussions in the media, but not only in the media, also in our parliamentary offices, because many people come and ask what's going on with his share, whether he can sell this plot. In order to resolve all the doubts we encounter in our parliamentary offices, which appear in the media, we have just requested such information, Minister, we have requested you. We are primarily concerned with the good of our Polish land, especially the good of agriculture. We want to monitor the implementation of this law from the very beginning. That is why, after a month of her work, we have proposed as a Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice, which I have the honour of representing here, at this moment, to the Minister for this information. There are questions that are often asked on the air, in public discourse, and I ask the Minister to answer these questions. The first question raises many such doubts and many, much bitterness, is about banks. Many banks do not want to grant mortgage loans or withdraw from them at the moment. This is a problem for many residents, for young people who want to build themselves, who have applied for this loan and even had promised this loan. At this point, the bank is pulling out of this because it doesn't want to sign a mortgage on this loan. I do not hide that this is a problem that raises some doubts. Therefore, Minister, I ask whether this is some kind of error in a law that needs to be corrected, whether it is merely the invention of banks or internal banking procedures that do not want to give these loans and thus explain their decision. Minister, I may ask a very far-reaching question here, but I would also like the Minister to try to answer that question. Or do the banks not want to use the act of this law, the entry into force of the new law to get some greater profits for themselves? Isn't that a decision? And if this is, as I said at the outset, a legal gap in this law, is the Ministry planning to act quickly to resolve this problem? When we brought in, when we were debating this bill, there were many such controversial questions. Here, too, I want to ask the Minister what is going on in these cases, e.g. in matters of inheritance. You know that many questions have been raised from many parts of the Parliament's Chamber, but not only, ladies and gentlemen, because these questions have also appeared in the media. Has the inheritance changed? Will the father be able to rewrite the land to his son, his child, who is not a farmer who is not qualified? Is that a real problem? [[♪ The bell ♪]] or Was it just a problem that scared the farmers of this bill? Another thing that was also controversial when we discussed this law is the issue of the original purchase by the Agricultural Property Agency. Minister, I'd like to hear specifically, are there any reports of problems with this right of pre-emption? And here I'd like to ask you a question...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u144	Thank you very much, sir. Time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u145	Whether this bill means a novelty in the law of the first purchase or the right of the first purchase of the agency had for a long time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u146	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u147	Last sentence, Mr. Marshal. Do agricultural organisations, agricultural trade unions raise objections to this law? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u148	Thank you very much. I would like to welcome a group of Boy Scouts from the Little Village to the Płock County, who came to the invitation of Mr Maciej Małecki. We welcome you very much. [[Applause]] I now ask that the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development be answered by Mr Zbigniew Babalski. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u149	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Guests! It's actually been a month since the bill was introduced... [[Problems.]] [[They were predictable.]] ...and like I said from this place many times... [[Yeah, we did.]] ...while proceeding with this bill, that we will monitor on an ongoing basis all events that will eventually take place during the implementation of the Act. [[That's a master's answer.]] I thank the Law and Justice Club for taking this initiative. I'm ready to stand before you every month, in front of the High House, if need be... [[Is that a bad bill?]] ...and we're going to talk about this bill, about the positive effects of this bill. If they're negative, we'll talk about it too. As I have declared in several of my speeches, the response will be up-to-date and immediate as necessary. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On 30 April 2016, the Law of 14 April 2016 on the suspension of the sale of real estate of the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury and on the amendment of certain laws entered into force. This law introduced a number of amendments to the rules governing the marketing of agricultural real estate. At this point I would like to remind you that this law, first of all, stopped the sale of real estate belonging to the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury for a period of 5 years from the date of the entry into force of the Act, excluding real estate intended for investment purposes and agricultural real estate with an area of up to 2 ha. In addition, the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development, at the request of the President of the Agricultural Property Agency, will be able to agree to sell property other than those indicated if socio-economic considerations so warrant. Nothing bad has happened in this matter so far. Secondly, the Act of 11 April 2013 on the shaping of the agricultural system has been amended. Firstly, the introduction of the principle that the purchasers of agricultural property may in principle only be individual farmers, namely farmers with agricultural qualifications, who personally carry out at least 5 years' agricultural holding with an area of not more than 300 hectares of agricultural land and who reside on that holding. This requirement will not apply to the acquisition of agricultural property by local government units, the Treasury, ecclesiastical legal persons, religious associations and loved ones. I particularly stress: loved ones, because this problem has also started to appear during this month. The next case, agricultural property may also be acquired through inheritance, except that in the event of inheritance under the will, the agency will have the right to acquire real estate inheritance if the estate heir is a person outside the circle of loved ones but not an individual farmer. With the agreement of the President of the Agency, expressed by an administrative decision against which the appeal will be given to the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, agricultural property will also be able to acquire other entities providing guarantees of proper agricultural activity, if, at the same time, the acquisition does not result in excessive concentration of land, here we are talking about this limit of 300 ha. In order to eliminate the possibility of speculative purchase of agricultural land by persons whose principal activity in life and occupation takes place outside agriculture and their purchase is treated as a form of investment in capital, there is a ban on the disposal or transfer of agricultural property to another entity without the consent of the court for a period of 10 years. Another case to be recalled, the Agricultural Property Agency was granted the right to buy shares or shares in commercial companies owned by agricultural real estate. In addition, in the event of a change of partner or the accession of a new partner to a partnership which owns an agricultural property, the agency acting in favour of the Treasury will be able to make a statement on the acquisition of that property for payment of the equivalent monetary value. I would like to inform the High House that such circumstances have not yet been established. Further important factors to be said, i.e. the raised doubts, including in Mr Robert Telus's speech, as well as during the work on the bill on the suspension of the sale of the property of the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury and on the amendment of certain other laws - were raised doubts related to the inheritance of the property by persons close to the owner. Agricultural real estate can be acquired through inheritance, except that in the case of inheritance under the will, the agency will have the right to acquire inherited real estate if the estate heir is a person outside the circle of legal heirs - including loved ones, i.e. the successors, the initials, the siblings, the children of siblings, the spouse, the accompaniers and the persons appointed - or the non-individual farmer. Persons who inherit agricultural property, e.g. after parents, they will not have what we confirm, and there were a lot of reservations and questions, the obligation to personally run the farm, which included the agricultural property they inherited. Inheritance of agricultural property for the benefit of a loved one and acquisition of real estate by such a person, e.g. by way of a donation, may take place regardless of the area of this property. Such questions were also common during this month. We maintain what we said during the process of this bill. There are no official letters to the Minister of Agriculture, but questions are asked. In Mr. Robert Telus' speech there was also a strong thread of banks and possibly excessive, so to speak, the application by the Agricultural Property Agency of the right to buy. I want to give you this information. During the period from the beginning of implementation of the Law on the shaping of the agricultural system, i.e. from 16 July 2003, until the end of December 2015 the agency received, note, 643 thousand. agreements transferring agricultural property with a total area of ca. 1250 thousand. ha. But note, during this period, the agency submitted purchase declarations in 629 cases, which concerned an area of 16,7 thousand. ha. In 2015, the agency declared the acquisition of 10 properties, and therefore made appropriate statements concerning 1265 ha with a total value of PLN 32.9 million. The financial plan - because that is also the question, maybe it will also rain from the hall, so I explain - in the financial plan of the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury for 2016 there are expenditures on the implementation of the purchase of land under the Act on the formation of the agricultural system in the amount of PLN 330 million. In addition, I would like to inform you that by 7 June this year. The President of the Agricultural Property Agency has received 409 requests for approval of the acquisition of agricultural property by entities other than individual farmers pursuant to Article. 2a Act on the shaping of the agricultural system. So far, 25 administrative decisions have been made in this regard. Now I want to return to the situation concerning the banks that Mr Robert Telus raised at the very beginning. They actually showed up... [[25, Minister, decision?]] You will ask, Madam Member, I will answer. [[As if the Minister could repeat it.]] In addition, I would like to inform you that, by 7 June, 409 applications were received by the President of the Agricultural Property Agency for acceptance of the acquisition of agricultural property by entities other than individual farmers, pursuant to Article. 2a Act on the shaping of the agricultural system. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So far, 25 administrative decisions have been made in this regard. Now I'm going back to the banks. During the month, and actually at the end of May first of all, information began to appear in the media about obstacles to obtaining loans for investments, e.g. for the construction of residential buildings. I would like to tell you that this information appeared primarily in the media only after an official speech, perhaps on 25 or 26 May, if I remember. The association of Polish Banks commented on the granting of loans for investments. Immediately after this speech, within 3 days I invited representatives of the Polish Bank Association to the Ministry of Agriculture. Yesterday we had this meeting and this conversation. We described both sides and banks, and the Ministry of Agriculture, which is the problem. I would also like to inform you that on 11 May - it is a pity that this did not come immediately to the Ministry of Agriculture - one of the very large banks came up with instructions on how to proceed with the granting of loans if the property is agricultural. It's a shame this manual didn't get to us either. I've got this manual, but I didn't get it official, I've got it off the record. There it is really shown how to try to secure at all costs, but not on agricultural property. There's a situation today... Mr. Marshal, I realize I'm running out of time, but it's an extremely important matter. I'll have the next 10 minutes. I'll be done in a minute. Having built-in conditions, having a building permit, having respect, the bank, according to what is written in this law, cannot enter more value than the real value of the property. He doesn't take into account the situation at all, which is a little weird and incomprehensible for us, he doesn't take into account today... [[We have it in the bill.]] Speaking of this record, we trusted PO and PSL so little too much, because we faithfully moved this entry from the August 2015 Act. That's where the record was. We thought this assurance that the value is to be entered is good for farmers. There was an agreement, but there were other circumstances. Imagine that at the time neither the bank nor anyone else intervened, there was no problem. It is today, but we lean over it and we solve it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u150	Minister... Secretary of State, Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Zbigniew Babalski: I'm done. The valuer does not estimate the future investment, even though there is a building permit, even though there is technical documentation to put the building there. The valuer does not take this into account, but estimates the value of agricultural property. This is where the problem begins. After yesterday's conversation with the banks, we're in the process of finding an agreement. For our part, on the part of the Ministry of Agriculture, we have a way out of this situation and we will propose it immediately. We will ask for the opinion of the Polish Bank Association and in a short time, if necessary, we will update it so as to simply help people, not hinder them. You could say this: when it comes to farmers' safety, several hundred thousand farmers are protected. At the moment, there is a situation that several dozen such monits came to the Ministry of Agriculture, but this certainly applies to a few hundred people who may have collided with this problem. Thank you very much. Excuse me, Marshal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Minister. 39 ladies and gentlemen joined the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. You're the first question to ask... [[These aren't questions, they're discussions.]] Please, I'm opening the discussion. Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be the first to speak in the discussion. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u151	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I want to thank the Minister and his colleagues for the hard work you have done. I would also like to thank the parliament and all those who worked on this law on ordering agricultural land in Poland. I am glad that we made it before 1 May to protect the Polish land from both redemption and unauthorised, unjustified speculation of these lands. I know we stepped on a print, got into a conflict with a lot of groups who made huge money on agricultural land. They may be dissatisfied about this. However, this is not a law which would be contrary to the interests of Polish agriculture, Polish farmers, which would be contrary to the national interest. Similar entries are made in many countries of the old European Union and are accepted by EU law. Therefore, I believe that it is a modern, beneficial law for Polish farmers. Of course, there are various interpretation problems. A month is too short a period to make an objective assessment of its application. I see the shortcomings that the Minister mentioned. The banks are attempting to introduce additional procedures when granting loans to farmers under a mortgage, and there is also the failure of notaries to draw up notarial acts, including in cases where the law does not give the Agricultural Property Agency the right to buy in. Think about what? You just have to do those notarial acts. It is also often alleged that people who are not related to agriculture who wish to move to the country do not have the possibility to buy parcels. Ladies and gentlemen, in Poland there are about 22 million parcels below 30 a. Any city would like to buy a plot for purposes [[♪ The bell ♪]] construction, that's what he's gonna have. [[You can't share it.]] Minister, the courage to implement this bill. In a few months. Let us make a comprehensive assessment to eliminate possible minor inconveniences and shortcomings. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u152	Thank you very much. Mrs Dorota Niedziela, the Civic Platform Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u153	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, until the words come to their mouth, "Didn't we say?" That is what some Members have said. The law is, of course, in our view - and we continue to say so - a legal bubble, which will have further consequences, not only after a month of monitoring, because after a month of monitoring, Minister, there was a problem of banks, and then there will be a problem of unconstitutionality, and then there will be a problem of personal property violations, and further consequences will be many other problems that we have repeatedly called your attention to as an opposition. You wouldn't listen. You can cover yourself with stories. It's the Minister who's gonna have it in his parliamentary office, we have it. I know a certain person who came and asked: "How will you help me, Minister, if I have been denied a loan, because the bank cannot write it down, it is an enclosure. The man started building for his money and some of it was built, waiting for it, he wanted to get a loan, while the bank refused it. It's very interesting how the Minister will help him. I remember, Minister, the first meeting. There hasn't been a bill yet. We met in the Senate, the Minister brought the foundation of this law, there was not yet a project submitted in the Sejm. The first point that we pointed out was the problem of bank security and what would happen to the loans. That was the first question. Then, with joyful work, the Minister said that there would be no problem because you asked the banks. But I don't think the Minister asked you exactly. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Talking about it now and creating another enemy after the enemy who was supposed to come and buy our land, the next enemy in the form of a bank conspiracy, sir, is simply unworthy. It is necessary to write a bill so that it is clear to the banks, to the owners and to all those who sell the land, because it is very easy from this seymous platform to say: please write the bill. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's simple, it's for sale, you have to write it, only someone takes responsibility for it, that's what people take responsibility for, because it's people's money and it's people's lives. And the bill that needs to be monitored after a month, I think it's a bill that's just a bubble, it's wrongly written. And it's not surveillance, Minister...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u154	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u155	...it's only right to admit that this is a bad bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u156	Mr Marek Sawicki from the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party will now speak in the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u157	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Of course, a month to evaluate the bill is too short a period. The agricultural land is a special good, subject to, subject to and should be subject to restrictions on turnover, and these legal solutions that we are monitoring today were primarily intended to prevent speculation of agricultural land for other purposes, as well as to prevent the sale of this land to foreigners. Unfortunately, the ban on selling agency land for a period of 5 years compared Polish farmers with foreigners, so the Polish farmer also cannot buy agency land. And here I constantly express my view that there is no need for intermediaries between the land and the farmer, and unfortunately the club of the United Right, PiS considered that the country is a better owner than a private person than an individual farmer. I advise once again to verify this view or at least release from the ban on the sale of agricultural parcels not up to 2 hectares, but up to 5 hectares. These are generally the parcels that are after the former Earth State Fund, and these parcels today, with free capacity to sell land in larger parcels, could actually sell and distribute permanently to farmers. At least in Eastern Poland, the south-eastern expectation of this land from farmers is high. I also want the agency to give me information on how much it has expressed reservations in value during this month and how much it will benefit from the right of priority of purchase, because you spoke here about 25 cases, but I would like to know what this value is and how many measures the agency provides for this year to apply this priority of purchase, [[♪ The bell ♪]] because this priority can also protect from the possible transfer of agricultural land by the so-called. The pillars of the donors who gave the money for it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u158	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Gawron, Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u159	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Due to the implementation of the law on the suspension of the sale of property of the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury, problems have arisen which have already been mentioned here. This was mentioned by the Minister, a representative of the applicants spoke. The main problem is the problem of banks, which unfortunately create various problems, sometimes even refuse to grant mortgage loans. The valuer, judging the property in question, is primarily guided by its destiny. Well, when the property is in a spatial planning plan or a decision has been made about the conditions of construction, it is worse if these conditions are not met. Unfortunately, a large part, however, of these land is not covered by the spatial planning plan. At this point, it would be good to give reasons, among others. The point is that, as the Minister said, these solutions, which are adopted by the Act, are based on the regulation which was adopted in the Law on perpetual books and mortgage and is virtually no different from what was adopted in the proposals for the Act of 5 August 2015 on the shaping of the agricultural system which was adopted. Personally, I believe that all the signals that have been reported here today, which are being transmitted to our Members' Offices, should be considered. This must be taken seriously, and the representatives of the Ministry have said that they are monitoring the bill and, if necessary, these changes will be implemented. In my opinion, it is important to work more closely with agricultural chambers. Agricultural authorities can make an important contribution to the provision of information about the law, but this is the essence of the matter, so that information reaches farmers as far as possible. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It is not true that this is a defective act. It is a good law protecting Polish agricultural land. The worst are myths that have spread to the opposition since the beginning of the law's implementation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[What myths?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u160	Thank you very much. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u161	Mr. Marshal! Minister! As an opposition, we were right, which we have to say today without any satisfaction, because it is really about people's problems. Only 40 days have passed since this law came into force, and today you must admit that it needs to be amended. In fact, it's a good thing that you admit that you're not in denial, which happens a lot here, so you have to appreciate the courage and admit that things didn't go the way they should. Of course, the satisfaction of people is small because many of them are in trouble today. It would be good if they weren't fighting in other people's breasts, but in their own breasts, because talking about some kind of abuse, using this situation by banks, about the inability of notaries is, first of all, not serious. In fact, it was necessary to ask the banks, their representation of the effects of this law. There was no opinion, and in many situations there was no opinion. You have to admit, it's not a good method: not to ask. It also seems that the method of recognizing matter by warfare does not seem to be good. On this point, I don't think the village likes that kind of stuff. I'm just not gonna say that sometimes the village still has things buried here and there and can take things quite seriously. So I ask, Minister, what went wrong? What lessons will you learn from this lesson? It would be a good thing, Minister, if you had scratched it down here, to outline the necessary amendment, because we didn't know that either. And finally, it's a proposal, and basically, it's a request. Please, because there will be an amendment, to lean on the case of care farms, which is to say, when an old farmer, often lonely, wants to save the land to a person who [[♪ The bell ♪]] He's taking care of him forever. These mechanisms exist. It is worth leaning on. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u162	Thank you very much, sir. The gallery welcomes young people from Bochnia Elementary School invited by Mr Włodzimierz Bernacki. We welcome you very much. And now you will be speaking with Mr Jan Łopat from the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u163	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The new rules have led to significant restrictions on the exercise of ownership of the property being imposed on the purchaser of agricultural real estate. In particular, within a period of at least 10 years from the date of acquisition, he will be obliged to run the holding in which the acquired property entered. During this period, the possibility to dispose of real estate will also be excluded, as well as to give it to other entities, e.g. lease or lease. Consequently, since 30 April agricultural real estate may not be purchased for purposes other than holding. I know what you're going to say: that's exactly how it was meant to be. But was it also intended what we are talking about here all this time about development opportunities, investment opportunities? After all, investments, even those with EU support, were usually supported so colloquially, with loans. Many people who are now also visiting my parliamentary office, although I am in opposition, are asking for an intervention, asking for a change of rules. It is a good thing that in the Minister's voice it sounded like you were thinking about a possible change of legislation, because banks often, only generally refuse to secure mortgage loans for the economy to the so-called. the land, and the Polish Bank Association, in a letter to the Minister of Agriculture, made such a request. I ask: Was this also intentional, and if not, are you going to change the rules? In what period, to what extent and when? I would very much ask you to bring up the important issues that voters are asking about. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u164	Thank you very much. Now the question will be asked, I apologise, and Mrs Lidia Burzyńska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will speak in the debate.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u165	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In fact, the Land Act limits the possibility of Polish land flowing out, its transition into the hands, which certainly prevents the Polish farmer from marketing the land. But this bill after a month of operation, among others. brings some suggestions, which, as Minister Zbigniew Babalski emphasizes all the time, we are looking at. They come to us, Members, to inform us that notaries do not want to sign notarial acts. They're afraid they might misinterpret the bill. The question arises: Could this be a collusion of notaries? Therefore, did the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development engage in discussions with the competent Ministry on the training of notaries in the field of this law? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u166	Thank you very much. Mr Leszek Ruszczyk, the Civic Platform Club, will now speak in the discussion. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u167	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! In the explanatory memorandum of the Law on the Stopping Sale of Property of the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury, it is rightly felt that our national treasure should not become the subject of speculation and combination. So I have a question: Wouldn't it be the influx of different types of structures, relationships, their formation, and their willingness to trade in land that would allow this to happen to religious unions? Are there any examples of relationships that are particularly interested in earth trading? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u168	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, is now speaking.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u169	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Thankfully, most of these evil intentions were eliminated at the procession stage in the Sejm thanks to strong voices of the opposition and farmers who came to Warsaw and protested, because today these problems would be several times more. On the other hand, the goal was to make the land cheap. Then everyone warned, notaries also warned that it would cause problems, because people have taken credit. There's land left, which is security. Nobody listened to it then. It's not some collusion of banks or notaries, it's just the rules of the market. If the price is falling, and today it is not known how long it will fall, what will be the price, then everyone is afraid of that risk. And that's where it comes from. It is ultimately hitting farmers, because most of all at the moment there are problems with already collected loans. On the other hand, if anyone wants to take a loan, the bank will give him several times higher collateral obligations than before. So this problem has to be solved. Farmers are faced with the need to finance the co-financing of the aid available under the various programmes, and this problem will continue here. This isn't some kind of scare, this is real stuff. It's only been a month and there's already a lot of problems. You just have to listen, that's what the government didn't want to hear. Maybe it wasn't exposed enough, because in other cases, even if he inherited it, he managed to force the government to withdraw from these evil intentions. It is said today that it is a good bill, but it is simply due to this second part of the hall and the farmers themselves who protested, came to Warsaw, paid attention. So the government should be very practical about this. Today banks will have a problem with meeting their debts because it will be a problem to sell these properties if it comes to recovery because of who to sell it to? The circle of buyers will be very narrow because you have to have agricultural qualifications, you have to live in a given area, you have to grow this land. So the earth will lose even more value, and this problem will deepen. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u170	Thank you very much. Ms Joanna Borowiak from the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice is speaking now. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u171	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! The Agricultural Property Agency has since 2003 the right to buy land belonging to the Treasury. This entry does not apply to the succession of holdings by relatives. However, the number of farmers has reached false information disseminated by the opposition in the process of proceding the law that such a solution will not be legally possible. Questions raised by farmers often come to me during meetings with them. I therefore ask the Minister: Is the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development planning to carry out an information campaign aimed at farmers, e.g. in cooperation with agricultural chambers, to reach the agricultural environment in a clear way the real information and to eliminate in a categoric manner the untruth which is sown? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u172	Thank you very much. Ms Bożena Kamińska from the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club is speaking now.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u173	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It's a bad bill, it's a very bad law restricting property primarily private. The Government of Law and Justice was informed by the opposition, by the Civic Platform, that banks would reject farmers' credit claims because they would not be able to establish a mortgage on them that banks would not give loans on land. The new laws of the Law and Justice Government were intended to protect the land from being bought by foreigners. Meanwhile, the so-called. A good change of Law and Justice generated the fruitage of new problems - problems for Polish farmers, problems for agricultural companies, reducing opportunities, without giving the possibility to receive loans for building houses and implementing investments on agricultural land. According to PKO BP, a very, very big problem with obtaining credit - even this will not be possible - will have owners of agricultural parcels not subject to bans of the new law. This applies to landowners under 0.3 ha, and there are thousands of landowners in Suwałszczyna or Podlasie. Minister, why did the Government of Law and Justice agree that the restriction should not apply to these properties? On the other hand, failing to care, he ignored and rejected the amendments tabled by the opposition, the Civic Platform, as regards not to be affected by their new legislation governing the level of mortgage protection. Minister, it's worth it, it's really worth it, because it's about the good of Polish people. [[♪ The bell ♪]] farmers and owners of agricultural land, listen to the opposition, which proposes for their sake appropriate amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u174	Thank you. Mr Krystian Jarubas, the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, is now speaking.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u175	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! In addition to writing a defective bill, did the PiS do something good for farmers? I'm asking you, Minister. The farmers are asking. So far, a farmer who wanted to build a real estate on his land has received a loan provided that he has established a mortgage on it in an appropriate amount. Banks included not only the current value of the property, but also took into account that the value of the property would increase as the investment was carried out. The Act introduced a provision which states that a mortgage on agricultural property must not exceed the market value of this property from the date of the establishment of the mortgage. Banks are surprised by the change of law and stop credit procedures. Part of it requires a security other than the agricultural parcel. Does the Minister realise that not everyone has the opportunity to find additional security for several hundred thousand zlotys? Does the Ministry note the difficulties faced by landowners in obtaining a mortgage? Is the resort working on a solution to the current situation that significantly restricts access to loans to owners of agricultural property? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u176	Thank you very much. Mr Józef Lassot from the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club is speaking now. [[What about Buda? And the PiS?]] Oh, I did miss it. Mr Waldemar Buda from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. [[Thank you, Marshal, for seeing me.]] The Member will be with you in a moment. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u177	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I would like to join in with the doubts raised here concerning the proceedings and the notaries' positions. After talking to one of the people in the parliamentary office, I called several notaries from a given village, one of the several thousandths of the village. It turned out that they were still before training, do not know how to apply the law, have a number of doubts and therefore did not sign any notarial act concerning agricultural property. This is difficult to understand, because notaries conduct business activities, they are professionals. The expectation that they will train for months, and we will have stopped selling such property, is incorrect. I don't know if there's any intervention by the minister here, even if there's an intervention involving a notarial government, it wouldn't be necessary. However, even worse, I have also heard that there are doubts that raise some concerns in notaries, but completely ridiculous, namely the sale of agricultural property below 0.3 ha, or 3 000. m2. There was an interpretation among the notaries, from which it appears that this exemption from the application of the law of these plots below 3 000. m2 concerns the area of the seller, not the plot to which the sale relates. That means if the seller has more than $3,000. m2, it cannot sell real estate or must apply those criteria which result from the Act. And that is completely ridiculous, because the ratio legis of the law was such as to limit the application of the law to those small parcels below 3 000. m2, not to examine the agricultural property area of a farmer or a seller who is not a farmer. So that I do not know whether the official position of the Ministry is necessary in this regard. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u178	Thank you very much. Now Mr Józef Lassota from the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u179	Oh, Mr. Marshal, something's collapsed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u180	Oh, please. [[It's a strip from downstairs. That's where she was lying.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u181	Then who was digging like that? I can't. It's state property.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u182	Mr President, you've ruined the podium. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u183	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to give proper consideration to the Minister for Agriculture's situation within the administrative limits of the city. Of course, it's I-III land. As the Minister knows, there has been a law for five years under which this land has been landed, while since 2014 agricultural land has been restored and there is a need for de-agriculturalisation. Well, in many cities, e.g. in Krakow, this land is very much. Kraków is one of the larger agricultural municipalities. I would like the Minister to consider this: Is it not, or cannot it also be in the current law or in this law which the Law and Justice passed, an element of such manipulation? Today, because of this bill, the land is cheap, because not everyone can buy it. At the same time they are excluded from this law e.g. religious relationships. And now a religious relationship that... I am not even talking about existing ones, because it is possible to establish, someone can create, buy agricultural land, it is a great investment in capital, and for some reason the local government will turn it into a building site and, of course, sell it with a huge profit. This is an element which, I think, may be present, so it is worth considering whether to restore again - and you have proposed this recently - also this element, so that the agricultural land in the cities will be deflected by the law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u184	Thank you very much. Mrs Barbara Bartus, Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u185	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! After the elections won by the Law and Justice in Poland, a scream arose, but this is the scream of people who fear the loss of privileges, fear that they will no longer live at the expense of others, and oppose everything that the Law and Justice will do. At the same time, there were demands for the Law and Justice to make things right, what had been ruined for eight years. It is similar with this law, which we are talking about today, a law that has certainly violated certain interests, but it is not the interests of all farmers, small farmers, it is the interests of privileged groups. And today there are a lot of arguments raised, and there are a lot of lies about that. Among other things, people who apply to me at the office claim that the law provides that only an individual farmer, a natural person with agricultural qualifications, may be the buyer of an agricultural property, has resided in the territory of the municipality of the place where the real estate is situated and runs a private farm. So I have a question: Is in the so-called. a person meeting the criteria of an individual farmer in the Małopolskie voivodship may, for example, acquire real estate in Pomorskie voivodship? I would also ask the Minister to explain once again to everyone whether this law has introduced any restrictions on the circulation of land between the family. Are there any restrictions on inheritance, gift, any other transfer of property to the nearest ones? Let me stress once again that the bill is very short-lived. There's still a loud cry, but isn't it because it's really an opportunity to strike the Law and Justice again, not counting on what's really in this bill? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u186	Thank you very much. Mrs Dorota Rutkowska, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, is now speaking.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u187	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You yourself admitted that this bill may be flawed, so, ladies and gentlemen, don't try to hide these flaws behind some parade of notaries, bankers, maybe even courts. As a rule, the law was supposed to protect the Polish land from foreigners, but it really caused a big mess in the lives of many Poles. Minister, the scale of the credit problem is really big, we'll all repeat it. So far, I've received several dozen personal interventions, written interventions in the office, and I've filed an interpellation on this matter. I'm going to give you a little example - a situation from my county. Only in one suburban village has about 200 people. These parcels were bought before anyone even thought of the bill, they were going to build there. They started construction, unfortunately banks have stopped all procedures, they do not accept new applications, and they are even moving on to the fact that loans already granted after the first tranche are suspended. I don't know a bank that's recently given any kind of mortgage credit. Minister, there is even a special social group on Facebook that sees this problem and is already more than 1,000 interested. persons. So this is a really powerful scale. I have a question: when? You said it was urgent, but we know your effectiveness when it comes to law enforcement. You sometimes impose such a rapid pace, that before anyone knows that the new law is being passed through the legislative process, [[♪ The bell ♪]] she is already put to the vote. So maybe it's worth a little speed around here, Minister? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u188	Thank you very much. Ms Ewa Filipiak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, is speaking.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u189	Mr. Marshal! Dear Members, Minister! This bill is a really good bill and on April 30 we consciously committed this law. I have already talked to you about this many times, the case is especially about Małopolska, where there are small plots, under 30 a. Why does the article in the Law on Perpetual Books and the mortgage somehow restrict the owners of these parcels? Why do banks and judges in the courts, the perpetual books refuse mortgage loans? This Article introduced. 2a says that the mortgage may not exceed the value of the plot on the date of the mortgage, but some banks do not even sign mortgage agreements up to the value of the plot. I would very much like to thank the Minister for his talks with the banks, for what you said here, that yesterday was the last meeting with representatives of the Polish Bank Association, but it concerns a lot, I would say that even a few hundred thousand young people who want to build houses have permits for construction, plots under 30 and in the area of MNR, i.e. non-agricultural, but where housing is allowed, parcels are intended for construction sites. There's a time to build, and that's why he's in a hurry. I would like to know - because the Minister said that in a short time - when this situation could be resolved, because maybe all we need to do is change this article added in the bill on perpetual books and mortgage, just modify it a little bit, [[♪ The bell ♪]] and many thousands of Polish families will be able to borrow mortgages and build their homes. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u190	Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, is now speaking.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u191	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It is very good that today we have in the information of the current topic, which is for us, Members, known for daily visits to our offices of people who have been disappointed by this good change. [[Don't exaggerate.]] Yeah, I'm not exaggerating. People are disappointed in this good change. The changes made by the PiS in the Agricultural Land Trading Act make it difficult for banks to lend for investments in agricultural property. The new law on agricultural land does not allow the bank to enter the perpetual book with a mortgage. It has also happened that many banks apply these provisions to other parcels as well and have stopped lending for all agricultural parcels. Our parliamentary offices are storming people who wanted to build houses for loans granted to them by banks. There have already been arrangements, these people have often started investing for their own money and are now helpless. You can hear the crying and the wailing, because the banks are withdrawing from previous arrangements. They come to us, to our parliamentary offices, people who voted for Law and Justice in previous elections, asking for help, for a response. They're really disappointed. I have a question: Is the ruling party going to react somehow to this problem disappearing, but not chronicly, just as my Mrs Rutkowska said, from my club, to make it effective and fast, or is she going to leave it as a bad change? If the government has good intentions, please tell me how long it will improve the bill and when potential borrowers will be able [[♪ The bell ♪]] count on a good change. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u192	Thank you very much. Ms Ewa Szymańska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, speaks.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u193	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I only have one brief question about the agricultural system law. How much has the Agricultural Property Agency allocated this year, in 2016, to the implementation of this law, in particular to the exercise of the right of first purchase and acquisition of real estate? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[330.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u194	Thank you very much. Mrs Lydia Gądek, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, is now speaking.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u195	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It has been over a month since the minor cosmetic change of the Polish agricultural system. The effects are excellent. Thousands of German bauers left our country in terror, and those who were on their way turned around just outside the border. The notaries recorded record influences in April, and the Polish village finally got up from its knees and... fell on its face. No one will ever ride between the Polish gold Mercedes potato perch again. We're a success. The banks have stopped securing loans with mortgages on agricultural land, but that's okay. Something's gonna come up at the banks. The result is also a higher supply of agricultural land, and demand for agricultural land has decreased, but this was the case. There has also been a paralysis of enforcement proceedings. Very good. After all, the bailiffs in the light of some politicians are very bad people, and the notaries, since they earned so much in April, let them always feel the fear of not realizing the right of the original purchase. Besides, we heard here that they're probably in cahoots. Let them guard the state, the private. Oh, finally, the issue of appointments and names has been settled. A concubine is a close person when he is a close person and a distant person is when he is not a close person. Everything is clear and understandable now. Above all, however, the fact that a husband who has not defiled himself with his work in his field will now give it to no one without the permission of the parish priest. May war all over the world, as long as the Polish village is quiet, as long as the Polish village is calm. Mon are afraid of traffic in the village. Pon nose laughing in the spirit. [[Ha, ha, ha.]] Minister, you know why you're quoting me. We all know. Ladies and gentlemen! In this way I presented a very sad situation in the Polish village. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And I think it's gonna be a reflection on at least some in the process of making the amendments announced by the applicants, a fantastic change. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u196	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Jan Duda, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u197	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Law on the Stopping of Sale of Property of Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury and on the Change of Certain Other Acts entered into force on 1 May 2016. And I'm sure it's too short a time to make an overall assessment, but I think it's a good time to talk about the possible problems that result from the introduction of this law, because talking about the introduced almost certainly is important. And I don't know a man who could come up with the perfect recipe. And after all, we're just people, so something can always happen. [[But the PiS is perfect.]] The Law on the Trafficking of the Land is intended to govern this sphere, that is, the rotation of agricultural land. According to the Act, if the agricultural property in the spatial planning plan is intended for purposes other than agricultural purposes, e.g. for residential construction, the restrictions on the establishment of mortgages on such parcels do not apply. The spatial planning plans are designed to structure the spatial economy, as is the agricultural land management law under discussion. And now I have a question for you. Minister, how many municipalities do they have today's plans for land use, even in percentage terms? Does the Ministry have that knowledge? Because this is, I think, an extremely important thing, too. And the voice in this conversation, in this discussion. We are talking about banks, safeguards, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen. You know perfectly well that banks aren't just protecting themselves. [[♪ The bell ♪]] For the real estate they give credit for. That's not true. We answer with all our wealth. It's not enough that the house we're going to build for the loan will be returned to the bank. We answer with all our assets, so I don't know what the problem is. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u198	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Anna Wasilewska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u199	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The inhabitants of the region also come to my parliamentary office, asking for help on the land law, which entered into force on 30 April. Landowners cannot believe what the PiS government is doing, and they cannot accept the consequences of the bill. To land that is private property, no one has the right. It's the citizen who wants to decide what he's gonna do and when he's gonna do it. The prices of land are dropping. It is estimated that in 2 years on each 1 ha the farmer will lose about 10 thousand. zł, these are millions of citizens' losses. The state is favored, and there is no protection of the citizen. Lawyers are right to say that this is a golden time for them, because thanks to such a mess lawyers earn a lot of money for trials citizens versus the state. Another case is connected to the banks. Banks refuse to lend investments on agricultural parcels. Is this how young people who want to stay in the countryside want to live close to their farmers' parents? Are you going to do something about this problem? Young people are powerless and determined. They cannot rely anywhere on help to obtain a mortgage from the bank to build their own house on agricultural land. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u200	Thank you very much, Member. I ask Mr Bogdan Rzonca, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u201	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! These lamentations which you present concerning the great value of the Polish land concerning the great estate are not authorized. Of course there are farmers on the street. Marshals who never knew about agriculture and had nothing to do with agriculture, they lament. [[Applause]] And let them mourn, for the earth is of great value. [[Yes, sir.]] Of course, the law may not be perfect, but it is good, it needs and it will have good consequences also in terms of achieving this basic goal to which the land is intended, in terms of the development of Polish agriculture, Polish agriculture, which under the rule of the past coalition has been devastated. [[What are you saying? What devastation?]] I hope that this law will be really good for those who want to use the land for very good agricultural purposes, and those who smuggle land have a problem, farmers from Marshals have a problem. I have a specific question for the Minister. How does a farmer applying to the President of the Agricultural Property Agency for consent to sell this property prove that it was not possible to sell it to individual farmers? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u202	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Mirosława Nykiel, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u203	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Not so long ago, I asked you why the PiS government was so obsessed with their enemies, but that's your problem. Today I want to ask you why you are trying to make life so difficult for the ordinary people you are supposedly listening to. And that's not just your problem anymore, it's the problem with all of us. After all, in the course of the work on the law on land trading, we proposed changes in specific records in order to avoid the situations we are talking about here today. You weren't listening. Plus, you've shown yourself as usual, with your shoes and your arrogance. Now that the banks refuse credit for the construction of ordinary citizens, because the provision of the Act states that the sum of the mortgage, which is included in the perpetual book, cannot be higher than the current value of the plot confirmed by the estimated operation and does not take into account the value after construction, the banks refuse credit. I ask what the Poles should do because the voters in the parliamentary office ask me to do this. Why did you give the citizens another problem? Why are you now snooping around with bankers, notaries, not fighting your own breasts? What are you gonna do with this thing, when you're gonna do it and how you're gonna solve this problem? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u204	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Mark Polak, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u205	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I must say that, while I have met with many, but questionable comments concerning the entries in the amended agricultural law, I have never heard anyone question the idea that after the end of the 12-year period of protection there was a great risk of uncontrolled land buy-back on a massive scale, and this only in my opinion confirms the validity and the need to implement legal provisions strengthening the protection of the Polish land. But I wanted to return to those negative arguments that the opponents pointed out in this law, and I wanted to ask the Minister whether the Ministry, after its entry into force, confirms the validity of these concerns, or whether they had no justification, and whether there were unforeseen circumstances or legal gaps which require the amendment of certain provisions of this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u206	Thank you very much, sir. Because there are still a few people on the list to ask questions, and I would like everyone to be able to ask a question, if you don't mind, I'm going to shorten the time for asking questions to 1 minute so that we don't have to interrupt this point. [[And that's in accordance with the rules?]] Please, Mrs Elżbieta Radziszewska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u207	Thank you very much, Marshal. I have to say that I only wanted to ask one question, but I can't go through with what has been said. In response to the fact that people with problems arising from the provisions of this law have been going to our parliamentary offices, to lawyers, to law firms, to notaries, even though it has been in force for a month now, the Minister has been putting his head in ashes and saying: there are shortcomings, but we will try to listen to what these shortcomings are about, but when I hear what you are saying here in this Chamber, I must say that fear is to think - these are myths, these are conspiracies. What's the problem? Someone who has a piece of land, if he has one in the city or in the country, and doesn't have to ask the real estate agency, and wants to build a house, a bank can't give a loan higher than the value of this land alone. Once the bank considered the value and the land, and in the future of this house. Unfortunately, it can't be like this today. The bank can [[♪ The bell ♪]] only and only give to the height of the earth's value. So someone who wants to build a house for $300,000. zł, and it has a plot worth 100,000, gets a loan of 50,000. Where are the young? Minister, these are not myths, these are not collusions of notaries - these are the real problems of young people and in the countryside, and in the city. It is a legal bubel and as soon as possible should this provision of the law and other changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u208	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Kazimierz Golouch, the Law and Justice Club. [[Nobody applauds. Give it up.]] [[Applause]] [[That's too bad. I spared you. I shouldn't have spared you.]] [[That's too bad.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u209	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! When the law on the suspension of the sale of agricultural property of the Treasury and on the amendment of certain laws as members of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development we said that we would monitor this law, the effects of this law, and that is what is happening. The Minister has also made such a promise, and he has kept that promise, for which I thank you very much. A month after the entry into force of this law today in the Sejm we are debating and this is very good. I thank the Minister for this speech, for the information presented here. The provisions of the Act are valid in many countries of the European Union, the old Union, and I will say that they are sometimes more stringent than those which are already in force in this law. We should protect the Polish land, because agricultural land is the most important means of food production, and here there is no doubt in this room. On the other hand, at meetings with local government officials, also during the [[♪ The bell ♪]] meetings, whether there were questions at the municipal council meetings, whether a study of spatial development could not be regarded as a local document and, on this basis, also be traded on the ground. Such questions were raised by local government officials.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u210	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u211	Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u212	I invite Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u213	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I still believe that this law is harmful to agriculture and that the Polish countryside did not expect this law, especially as regards the regulation of private turnover. The Polish state does not trust its citizens, and farmers were the group that has had the highest confidence since the war. The Polish State does not trust its citizens, its farmers, by regulating what to do with their private turnover. That's one thing. Second thing. I wanted to ask you specific questions. The previous tenants, regardless of their legal form, were obliged to hand over 30% to the Agricultural Property Agency. land. Will they be able to buy up to 300 ha in possession of the current lease, within the meaning of more than 5 years? Second question: Will they be able to [[♪ The bell ♪]] have extended leases? It's about being able to buy back after the time has passed. And last question: What socio-economic considerations will the Minister be guided by in the event of personal consent on this subject? I'm talking about art here. 2 (2) 2. What specific socio-economic considerations?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u214	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u215	And time will show, ladies and gentlemen, whether this law actually brings something good. I don't think so. There's no worse bill...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u216	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u217	...like restraining private property. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u218	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Jerzy Gosievski... Excuse me, Mrs Małgorzata Golińska, Law and Justice. I am so sorry, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u219	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! After many open meetings with residents, especially farmers, agricultural families really thank the Minister for this bill, and as far as any objection is concerned here, I am very pleased that the Minister also sees things and, as you have declared, he will change them on an ongoing basis. But with the entry into force of this new law, which we are discussing today, many unverified and untrue information has also appeared. One of the allegations that appear are those that say that the Agricultural Property Agency has received unlimited rights, the possibility to decide on the future of agricultural land in Poland, especially the land of small family farms. In this regard, farmers ask whether it is true that the agency may exercise the right of first-buy in the event that they wish to give their land to children and children are not farmers. And this is my final question: In which cases the Agricultural Property Agency [[♪ The bell ♪]] Can't he apply the right to buy real estate? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u220	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Jerzy Gosievski, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u221	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! According to the position of the Warmia-Mazury Agricultural Chamber Assembly of 21 March 2016, the Agricultural Government of the Warmia-Mazury Region supports the intention to suspend the sale of agricultural land from the Agricultural Property Resources of the Treasury for a period of 5 years and to introduce permanent leases. In this position, the Chamber has made a number of proposals, most of which have been incorporated into the final form of the law, which means that the government is listening to the voice of its citizens. Minister, do the figures in relation to previous years concerning the Warmia-Mazurskie voivodeship on the lease of agricultural land confirm the validity of the law adopted? And second question. Whether the control of the sale of real estate from the stock will take into account regional variations, [[♪ The bell ♪]] because individual parts of Poland differ in the structure of farms, soil quality, intensity of production, diversity of terrain, etc.? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u222	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Ursula Rusecka, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u223	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! A lot of questions and doubts have already come out here. What I would like to stress is that this law is a very important law which fulfils its fundamental purpose, namely it protects against the redemption of Polish land. On the other hand, I have a question for the Minister regarding the suspension of bank mortgages. Has the situation of these people applying for it changed in any way in connection with the entry into force of the new law, where there is a spatial planning plan in the municipality, the plot has a construction purpose, is there a valid building permit? In fact, the situation in relation to the one before the entry into force of the Act has not changed in practice, but the banks nevertheless refuse to grant mortgage loans. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u224	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Bartłomiej Stawiarski, the Law and Justice Club. [[I am now, Marshal.]] Oh, good. I'm sorry, I didn't see you there. Mrs Gabriela Masłowska. I am so sorry, Member. I haven't seen you, and that's why...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u225	It's okay. Minister, is it true that the existing rules have regulated the effects of the fall in property prices as follows: if the price of the plot has decreased, its value, the law has allowed banks to be able to mortgage all other properties of the borrower, i.e. they are beneficial to the banks, because they have always had their situation secured and avoid risks? On the other hand, was it beneficial for borrowers? I'm having second thoughts. It is therefore true that, in the law that has been passed and which we are talking about today, in force since 1 May, this provision has been abolished, i.e. that banks will not be able to charge other mortgages, other real estate, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which often people then lost, unaware even of the consequences of their decisions at the time when they were borrowing? And the other thing. The issue of lowering the price of the earth, falling the price of the earth, as a result of the entry into force of this law, has been raised several times. Is this really the fall in the price of the earth? How in a month was the knowledge that the prices of the earth had fallen...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u226	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u227	...how do some statements indicate catastrophic? Does the Ministry have any data in this regard? Is there really such a radical decline in the price of the earth?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u228	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u229	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u230	I invite Mr Bartłomiej Stawiarski, the Law and Justice Club. [[There isn't.]] There's no envoy. I invite Catherine Chechara, the Law and Justice Club. There isn't. Mr Andrzej Noblechta, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u231	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! After the entry into force of the law on the suspension of the sale of real estate from the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury, but also at the process stage in the Seym a number of doubts and myths concerning the effects of the Act were created, and the purpose of the Act was to strengthen the protection of Polish land against speculative acquisition by persons who do not guarantee compatible with the social interest of using the land acquired for agricultural purposes. This is why it was necessary to stop the sale of real estate belonging to the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury within 5 years from the date of the entry into force of this law, which was the fulfilment of demands made by farmers who wanted to have equal opportunities in access to the national agricultural land in Poland. During the first weeks of operation of the Law adopted by the Sejm, new developments have emerged, such as difficulties in the granting of loans by certain banks for mortgages. [[♪ The bell ♪]] agricultural land. Minister, what is the scale of the difficulties in mortgage loans that agricultural property owners are applying for, e.g. To build a house? Who determines the market value of agricultural property for credit purposes?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u232	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u233	Is it a bank or an asset valuer? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u234	Thank you very much, sir. You will now speak with Elizabeth Duda, the Law and Justice Club. [[There isn't.]] There isn't? This is Mr Stawiarski, who appeared in the Chamber. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u235	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Many properties belonging to the Agricultural Property Resource of the State Treasury are currently leased to large agricultural companies. Some of them are based 100% on foreign capital. This is the case, among others. in the district of Nysa, where the German company leases almost 700 ha on the basis of the lease agreements of agricultural real estate from the resources of the State Treasury. This company declares its willingness to purchase or lease real estate. One of the contracts ends this year, the other in 2019. Individual farmers report their willingness to purchase or lease these areas. My question. Minister, what is the policy of the Ministry and the Agricultural Property Agency in such cases? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u236	Thank you very much, sir. Is Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice here? There isn't. The last question is asked by Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u237	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! To be honest, sitting here in the Chamber, I could not listen to some of the statements made by Members of the Law and Justice, which are simply a further game played on this subject. [[Oh, dear!]] Today, less than a month after the agricultural land trade law came into force, we are dealing with the tragic consequences of it. Thousands of people can't build a house. Government policy made dreams of their own four walls and a roof over their heads for many Poles just blew away. The problem is that the law states that the bank cannot establish a mortgage on the value of the investment. No one, ladies and gentlemen, will be borrowing money, unable to establish a security adequate to the risks being taken. The problem also applies to parcels on the outskirts of cities and peripheries and in rural areas up to 3 000. m which, according to the original assumption, were to be excluded from this law. This problem is a result of the pride of PiS politicians who do not listen, thinking that they know best of all politicians. I was very clear in my work on the bill, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that this bill will paralyze investments in the country.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u238	Questions, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u239	Law and Justice believes that they want to support young Polish families in acquiring housing. Our amendment to this law has already been notified to the marshal. The solution is ready. If you want to prove that you want to support young Polish families, you can do so and take a step backwards. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u240	Thank you very much, Member. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Robert Telus. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u241	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Maybe I'll take it because it's dangerous. [[The Member removes a fragment of the strip from the speaker]] Minister, thank you very much for this information. I'm so glad we could talk about this. To be honest, at the beginning of this information, I was a little concerned, because many of the information that appeared in the media was controversial. But in the questions asked by Members of the opposition, the Civic Platform, the Polish People's Party, in fact - Minister, you have also noticed - there is one problem. That's the problem with banks. [[Not with the banks, with the bill.]] And that's the problem to solve, the problem to solve. I'm thinking about it -- mortgage loans -- to sort this out. I'm just wondering about the sentences that were coming down here, the slogans that you're proud of, that you don't want to talk. I am a member of the third term, for the last two terms, when the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party ruled, it was never so that after a month the law would be discussed. For the first time it happened that after a month we were talking to you, wondering if there was anything in this bill to improve. That is why we want to talk to you and with the opposition and with the farmers. We want this law to serve the Polish farmer, to serve Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, I know why this cry is raised by the opposition, by the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, we know that almost 200,000. Ha land has been sold to poles. And that's the problem. Because now those people who bought the land that bought the land because they got some foreign money from investors have a problem with what to do with it. And that's where it's going, and that's why all the screaming and all the fuss about this bill. Minister, I would like to say very specifically, with determination: thank you for this bill. Thank you on behalf of Polish farmers, thank you on behalf of Poland, because this law protects our Polish land. And that's very important, and that's the most important part of this bill. [[Applause]] If there are mistakes - and we see that there are errors in this case, there are problems in the matter of mortgage loans - please, Minister, to deal with this matter as soon as possible. Because we care about Polish young couples who want to build, and so that we can get this case done as soon as possible so that they can take loans for mortgages. And that's also a little hypocritical on the part of PO and PSL. After all, this record, which is in our bill, is from your August bill. And I don't want to blame you here, but that record was in your bill. Of course, we need to change it, we need to improve it, because we care, as I said, about the good, our national welfare, on Polish soil. I think this is the most important thing. And yet, Minister, there is a very important thing. You can see that the notaries... Anyway, I had this exact signal in the parliamentary office. The notary said to the farmer: let's wait a little longer, because this bill still needs to bite in. Isn't it necessary, Minister, to draw up a scheme, some description of the bill, and send it to the notaries so that the notary has some kind of download on this bill? [[So complicated?]] Or maybe some kind of notary training to train them to know how this bill works and to start signing notarial acts faster? Because farmers are waiting for this. Besides, thank you again for leaning on this bill for talking to me. Thank you for all the questions, including those that were malicious. I think that the point is that we should discuss and correct our laws to serve us, especially Polish agriculture, to serve Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u242	Thank you very much. With a corrigendum from Mrs Elżbieta Radziszewska. But please, one minute, Member, because we really don't have much time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u243	Thank you, Marshal. Mr President, you have, among other things, been responsible for this. He misunderstood my statement. If we question the records that are in the bill, if we're talking about the fact that today someone who lives in the city or in the countryside and has agricultural land can't sell a house where there's a piece of agricultural land, he can't sell his property because he has a piece of forest. This is a real problem. You were clapping when one of your colleagues said that they were illegal laments because farmers from the Marshals are wailing. I don't know who's coming to you, because I've got a lot of people in my office, and they're not the ones who bought a lot of land, and they're poles, and you don't know who they are. These are ordinary people from cities, towns and villages. I think that you should be ashamed of this statement and this unfair defence of all the records that really restrict the law not of Germany, not of the Netherlands, not of anyone else, but of our Polish farmers, our Polish citizens in cities, towns and villages, where the land is classified as agricultural land. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In Krakow there are 46% It's a land like this. These aren't imaginary problems. However, I ask you, Minister, that, without paying attention to these praises, you turn your back on the problems that Polish farmers and Polish citizens have. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u244	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Minister Zbigniew Babalski. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u245	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, As for my last speech, I'm going to avoid names so that you don't straighten up again, because it just doesn't make sense. [[I've been avoiding names, too.]] I'm already leaning so far, Madame, that my back hurts. [[Applause]] I'm showing you, I'm really showing you that I'm ready. I'm acting on behalf of the Minister of Agriculture, my boss. We are also ready to accept this criticism that I have heard from you. The effect will definitely be positive, I promise. In fact, from this discussion - thank you for this discussion and for these questions - it appears that the objective that we originally set to achieve in this law seems to be being pursued because you have not questioned this country in any way. Protection of Polish land, which should be grown and where Polish food should be produced to give food security to Polish citizens. And houses, ladies and gentlemen, we should build - here I address you, I will not name you - on investment parcels. These investment parcels are less than 3,000. m2 throughout the country we have, as Mr Ardanowski said, approx. 22 250 thousand. in the resources of the Agricultural Property Agency. Let me at least try in a telegraph brief to answer some of the things that you've been discussing here. Maybe I'll start with a collective attack: you don't listen to the opposition. We just listened to the opposition. I'll prove to you that we listened to you. Especially on my left, you know what I am talking about. I'll read it. Act of 5 August 2015 on the shaping of the agricultural system, so praised. All right, I listened to the opposition. What was written down there? I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The sum of the agricultural real estate mortgage shall not exceed the value of that property, determined using the methods provided for in the property management rules. I listened to you. And today I have this fruit. We have to fix this together now. We added only one thing there, that this value is determined by the valuer, and the final value - the court, after the operation. We were protecting Polish farmers? We were protecting you. It turns out that we've protected them too much, because by the way, we have to move towards change, because those who aren't farmers who want to invest in their own homes, their own apartments, are starting to have problems. I'll be the last person in this room to say we're supposed to teach banks, notarial corporations. I never said that, and I'm never gonna say it. On the other hand, I expect from banks, from the National Council of Notarial support, not the media attacks that appear. I repeat: Where was all this, ladies and gentlemen, when the PO-PSL Act in 2015 appeared with the same record? [[Applause]] No one ever referred to it when it came to banks. The banks... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I'm not talking to you. No one ever referred to it. Today's the plarum. [[Voice from the room: Don't push...]] I'm not pushing, I'm just showing examples that actually are. I'm not accusing anyone. I'm not going to argue with you because it's too far. And now that I have listened to the opposition, what I have read, they accuse me - when I read the names, you will straighten it out, but I must - Mr Kasprzak, Mr Jarubas, Mrs Kaminska, Mrs Nykiel, that I have listened to the opposition. I listened in good faith. Sometimes good faith comes out the way it comes out. Everything is actually limited to discussing the mortgage and the attitude of the banks. I'm not judging whether it's right or wrong. [[Not everything.]] Bank bets, I repeat. I'm not judging whether it's good or bad, because I suspect they're acting in good faith. But I can't accept that there used to be this practice, that the value was 100,000 and that the mortgage was four times higher. What was that poor farmer supposed to do? He was bankrupt quite often. That's why it was the intention of this recording. I'm speaking in general. You asked questions, so you know who said it: the bank can't give credit. The bank can lend and the bank lends. The mortgage or the value of the property is not the only factor that authorizes the agreement between the borrower and the bank to be signed. That's not the only factor. If you look, points are exchanged. The third point is the mortgage. Your status, your employment contract, your income, whether you're left to live, to pay your bills, when you pay your credit check - these are the basic sources. The mortgage is extra. And if the banks have so far assessed the property and the alleged investment on it, and estimated it at 300,000. zł, give credit. Now we say, "Something prevents us from having all the documentation... Let me give you a simple example. I called myself, I went to the website, I found a bank, mortgages, how to get a loan. I introduced myself, presented the terms that a young man presented to me. One of the messengers said there was a discussion on Facebook. I'm there, I'm discussing with these people. I can prove it to you. They're showing me... Because first I said this: you write normally according to such a copy-paste principle, such letters are. So they started talking, signing up, and giving phones. I'm talking to these people, and they're telling me all the problems that they are. I called one of the banks... I didn't call. When I gave my phone number on the website, my bank advisor called me back in a minute, there was an immediate response: Are you interested? Yes. Here's an example. I described the situation that a young man described to me in turn, in which the incident took place. I impersonated him, of course I didn't name him, there was a preliminary call. He's got an investment plot that's under 3,000. M2, he wanted to build a house, but there was an opportunity. He described it to me. There is a house, an area of 120 m2, which stands on a farm, forest, practically, and he wanted to buy this house. All the conditions were met, he was creditworthy, he wrote what he was making. He says everything was fine. The moment I gave the map from the old days and it was written there - a wall, one answer: you will not get the value of not only this plot, but also the house that is standing there - because he wanted to take credit to just renovate it - from us credit. And it also said: you will find it difficult to get credit from any bank, because it is an agricultural parcel. I moved on. I said thank you, but I checked why it's an agricultural plot, since the house has been there for 20 years. Yeah, because the owner prefers to pay agricultural tax because it's less than real estate tax. Can't such a case be solved individually by the bank? I think he should be. [[Minister, these are just little things.]] I'm giving an example because that's the most important problem. I'll be right with you, too. But, sir, these are things that people describe, and they say they don't understand why they don't get credit for renovating a house they want to buy. So we're gonna figure this out, I'm gonna say it again. There was a conversation with representatives of the Polish Bank Association yesterday. In the near future, maybe next week, I will also try to invite representatives of the national notarial corporation to the Ministry of Agriculture and we will try to discuss this subject with them, so that perhaps even before the holiday break we will take a subject and try to fix it all. [[Applause]] This is a preliminary announcement, not a 100% guarantee. But I'm pre-announcing it. The point is, before vacation, before vacation, to straighten it out. A fellow Member asked a question. I'll answer that. It was not excluded, it refused to disable, there is no possibility to renew the lease and there will be no extension of the lease. There's no way to buy it back. We will not set precedents because there is a large group of farmers or farmers who simply will not do so. There are a number of cases in court, and we are also waiting for judicial decisions, and then we may perhaps be able to lean on this subject, as you said here, because I repeat, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I think I lean down quite often, and I'm not afraid of it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u246	Thank you very much, Mr... Secretary of State, Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Zbigniew Babalski: Your Marshal, as the subject is huge, I still have a few questions to answer. The question about religious relationships was asked here. It's a competence... But you're welcome... You've extended your time before, too. [[In writing, Minister.]] Secretary of State, Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Zbigniew Babalski: But I have the right, Marshal. I know, but it's beyond... Secretary of State, Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Zbigniew Babalski: I have the right. There's been a lot of charges here that I have to address. There will be a written reply to the section. The time of information is defined by the Sejm's Rules of Procedure, and we've already crossed it. Well, then you'd better hurry. Secretary of State, Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Zbigniew Babalski: I understand. Just a moment, please. Religious unions are the affairs and powers of the Minister of Home Affairs, not the Minister of Agriculture. We have no indication that within a month there was an avalanche of new religious unions standing in line to buy the land. It's not there. There have been questions about how much security we have in the register as far as the Agricultural Property Agency is concerned for the exercise of the right of the original purchase. There were several such questions, among others. From the former Minister of Agriculture. Today, the amount of PLN 330 million is planned. I just want to remind you that in the last 16 years, we've made our originals within 16,000. ha. So don't worry. This is where they say the agency will stand under the fence and buy this land to hold it. Someone said we were gonna rake the country's land. No, I give a simple example, and what happened within a month as regards the lease, ladies and gentlemen, is tangible. Go to the punch line, Minister, please. Secretary of State, Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Zbigniew Babalski: Within a month, we leased... In general this year, given to the Polish village will be in the form of a lease of 100,000. ha. Within a month, from the moment this bill came into force, we leased 21,000. ha land in restricted tenders. [[Applause]] This is the answer to the fact that this direction is absolutely right. Don't nod your head, sir. You told me this was the right direction. [[Yeah, I agree. I agree on this part.]] Good. [[Applause]] But you're welcome, Minister, you're really... Secretary of State, Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Zbigniew Babalski: Maybe this is what we're gonna do. I will try to answer you because you have actually asked a lot of questions. I see you're impatient, but you want me not to prolong this time. I will therefore respect your wishes. For the rest of the questions, the specific ones, because you know that they have often been repeated, we will answer in writing. In conclusion, I would like to say - I do not want to murder you - that we have opinions of lawyers from the University of Warsaw, professors of agricultural law who say that under no circumstances the articles of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, articles of the Treaty of the European Union have been violated in this law. It's described in the opinions of people who do it on a daily basis when it comes to agricultural law... Minister, please... Secretary of State, Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Zbigniew Babalski: These are documents, which are also the basis for the fact that this law, which entered into force, in our opinion, is a law fulfilling all conditions which in Polish law apply. As I said at the beginning, another possible information on how It's functioning, it could be in the fall, at the end of the year, when we get all the attention. And I'm going to say this: we've already prepared the material, which will show you step by step, who, how, where he buys, will sell. [[Applause]] This will all be on the pages of the Agricultural Property Agency and on the pages of the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development. Thank you. Thank you. [[Marshal, give the floor.]] Thank you very much, Minister. Secretary of State, Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Zbigniew Babalski: Thank you so much and I'm sorry. This statement concludes the examination of this point. The Rules of Procedure of the Sejm apply equally... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: I can...]] No, no, Minister. The timing of the current information is precisely specified in the Rules of Procedure and I would very much ask that we stick to it. I've closed that point. [[The Minister didn't answer my basic question. You're welcome.]] Gentlemen, gentlemen, calm down. Emotions are big. We proceed with the examination of items 19, 20 and 21 of the agenda: 19. First reading of the civil draft law on the Constitutional Tribunal (print No 550). 20. First reading of the parliamentary draft law on the Constitutional Tribunal (print No 558). 21. First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Constitutional Tribunal Act (print No 569). I ask the representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee of Mr Jarosław Marciniak to present the justification for the draft law contained in print 550. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u247	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As a Polish citizen who stands in this dignified place, I wonder what happened. What happened was that Poles had to stand up for the Constitutional Tribunal, and that they had to stand up for their own representatives. Representatives who, when taking their honorable positions, swore, often referring to God, to obey the Constitution. I'm sure no one expected the trial of paralyzing the tribunal to bring our nation together to defend what our grandparents, our parents... [[Voice from the room: Not all of them.]] ...and often we ourselves, fought for almost 50 years. What I'm talking about now is freedom, because every conscious citizen knows that we need to become slaves to the law to be free. Every conscious person knows that freedom does not exist without the rule of law, and the rule of law does not exist where there is no functioning Constitutional Court. In a democratic state of law, those who put themselves above the law put themselves above the equality and freedom of citizens. He who fears judges in a democratic state of law, fears the Constitutional Court and the rule of law, certainly does not have good intentions: who, with the good of Poland, is aware of the need to cooperate with all countries for the good of the human family - I quote a passage from the Constitution... [[Voice from the room: Art. 197.]] I remind you, because I have the impression that some of you have forgotten this: Who, with the interests of Poland in mind, is aware of the need to cooperate with all countries for the good of the human family, it would not bargain with the rule of law, which the tribunal protects. There are rules that the High House can't erase with all the power of its majesty, even by changing its constitution. These principles come from the dignity of every human being. These are principles that guarantee freedom and equality. These are rules that would like to deny fascistic groups based on the cult of forces that are growing in our country. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Let's show that our intentions are good. The whole Europe, the whole free world is now looking at Poland. With an increasing wave of nationalism, with an increasing wave of hatred for what is alien... [[Voice from the room: Ad rem.]] ...I hope that Members of the House will show that Poland can continue to be an example to others. All you need is your good will and your willingness to correct the current situation, through which Poland as a country and Poles as a nation can suffer very much. Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! There is no point in divorcing about the constitutional crisis we are currently in. Practically everything has been told about this crisis in Poland and abroad. I will therefore not quote the facts and interpretations thereof. [[Voice from the room: Especially abroad.]] Facts and interpretations which all Poles heard from the mouth of politicians from left to right. I come here on behalf of the citizens, the citizens you represent. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Time's on the clock. As a citizen, acting on behalf of citizens, I am convinced that you also believe that, in the current political and international situation in which Poland is located through an ongoing constitutional dispute, the time has come when we must resolve it. One day it will be time for a fair assessment of the current situation, but now is the time to act. The obligation to resolve the constitutional conflict lies with you, Members and Members of the Republic of Poland. We, citizens, come to you with a hand outstretched hand, with a project that is enough to accept, prior to the vow of judges elected in accordance with the Constitution and the publication of unpublished judgments. The conclusion of a constitutional dispute that has been ongoing since December must not be based solely on the development of a political compromise. The conclusion of this dispute must, first and foremost, be achieved by the fulfilment of the law and the restoration to the Constitutional Court of its legal position and social authority. [[What's with the screaming?]] The Committee for the Defence of Democracy was created as a reaction to attempts to paralyze the Constitutional Tribunal. The Committee for the Defence of Democracy is a forum from which citizens of the Republic can speak. It's a forum from which they can speak and be heard. I speak on behalf of those citizens who are concerned about the common good of Poland. High Izbo! Citizens understand the importance, role and importance of the principles of a democratic rule of law. They also understand the role and importance of the idea of constitutional justice. Not without reason, High Izbo, the rise of the constitutional court has occurred in response to the tragedy of both world wars, in response to the most disgusting crimes committed at that time. Constitutional justice is the idea of a legal and judicial mechanism. This mechanism guarantees that democracy will never transform into a cult of force in which one who is different color of the skin, another religion or other sexual orientation, ceases to be treated as a man and a citizen and becomes an object. Constitutional courts in Europe were supposed to ensure that Europeans could never again, deny their human nature, commit the hideous crimes we know from the history of the 20th century. Constitutional justice is one of the greatest achievements of European political and legal culture, and this is an achievement that we Poles are also proud of and should be proud of. For decades Poles envied Western Europe's economic, social, and civilization achievements. Now, however, after decades of captivity, we finally have achievements that we can be proud of, we have achievements that we should be proud of. Do you, Members, know that such a Polish achievement, which is truly admired in Europe and in the world, is 30 years of the judicial work of a small tribunal in Warsaw? The caselaw of this Polish tribunal of only a dozen judges is an authority also for European tribunals and other constitutional courts in Europe and the world. However, the case law of the Polish tribunal is not only cited and analysed by lawyers, the case law of our tribunal primarily really changed the lives of millions of Poles after 1989. It is the caselaw which co-shaped the Polish legal and social order, the legal order which should uphold the freedom and human rights of the citizen. This is a case law which guarantees that no authority, even the legislative authority elected by the people in general elections, will rape the fundamental rights of citizens. This is the case law, which is the foundation of the Republic of Poland built for decades by the community of free people. This is a case law that we should be proud of, which we should promote, to which attachment should be the duty of every Polish patriot. Therefore, I ask you, Members, to protect what the great Polish lawyers and social authorities: Ewa Łętowska, Andrzej Zoll, Teresa Liszcz, Marek Safjan, Wojciech Hermeliński, Mirosław Wyrzykowski, Jerzy Stępień, Lech Garlicki, Biruta Lewaszkiewicz-Petrykowska, Janina Zakrzewska, Zdzisław Czeszko-Sochacki and dozens of other outstanding Polish constitutional judges have been building for the past 30 years. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Citizens associated with the CODE, citizens who share its ideas, and even those who are reluctant or indifferent to the CODE, have decided to use their vote. Today, the draft law on the Constitutional Court is being discussed as a result of this action. The draft of our bill has one noble purpose, which the High House seems to have lost. The aim is to comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland and contribute to the end of the constitutional crisis in Poland. Our project aims at fulfilling the judgments of the tribunal, guaranteeing their entry into force and observance by all public authorities. Moreover, our project equips the tribunal with effective procedural mechanisms, as set out in the previous June 2015 Act, which will enable the tribunal to perform its constitutional duties. And, most importantly, our project restores the court's ability to serve its citizens by controlling the constitutionality adopted by the High House of Laws. Mr Fellowships, Mr Fellow Members, Our project aims to comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, but also within the limits set by its provisions it aims to introduce solutions which take maximum account of the demands of the governing camp, all these demands which, we want to believe, are also an expression of concern for effective mechanisms for enforcing the provisions of the Constitution. Therefore, the draft law on the Constitutional Court presented by the CODE, inter alia. The President, the Sejm, the National Court of Justice, the Supreme Court and the Supreme Administrative Court, in most cases, provides for the selection of judges of the Tribunal by a majority of 2/3 votes in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members, introduces a safeguard mechanism in the form of the delegation of the function of Judge to a judge whose term of office has expired in order to avoid paralysing the Tribunal in the event that the High Chamber would not be able to decide on the election - exactly as is the case at the Court of Justice of the European Union and as is the case with our Ombudsman - and the Judge elected will take an oath before the Marshal of the Sejm at the same sitting at which he will be elected. High Izbo! I would also like to emphasise - and I would like you, when voting in accordance with your will, to bear this in mind - that our project is fulfilling all the demands set out in the opinion of the Venice Commission. If you claim to be your goal today to resolve the constitutional crisis, if you want Poland to stop being a free world problem, please accept this project as soon as possible - the international community will accept it with recognition. Law and Justice promised to listen to the citizens. As you can see from this room, very few of you keep that promise, and I would say that almost no one does. We trust that you will keep your word during the campaign, and I hope that this will change in the future. Here I would like to stress one more thing: this project and its proceding in no way exclude responsibility for the violation of the Constitution, which is currently carried out by the President of the Republic of Andrzej Duda and the President of the Council of Ministers Beata Szydło. Moreover, the process of this law cannot be a smokescreen before the European Commission, it cannot be a facade for lack of dialogue. From here on behalf of the nation... [[Voice from the hall: What nation?]] ...I demand that you carry out the duties that the sovereign has imposed on you through your constitution, which you are subject to on an equal footing with other citizens. [[Applause]] High Izbo! Finally, I would like to quote a passage from the 2006 Constitutional Court ruling. On behalf of the citizens whom I represent, I would like Members to take these words to heart, because it is important to remember that the principle of the division and balance of the authorities is the cornerstone of a democratic rule of law. The Constitutional Tribunal is in her custody. These principles have been created s. in order to avoid, historically known, experience. This experience is both a risk and a real danger of a simplified understanding of democracy - mainly, if not exclusively - to the sovereignty of the parliamentary majority. In order to avoid this danger, a constitutional democracy system was created in the 1997 Constitution. This system is based on the Constitutional Tribunal. High Izbo! Let's get things back to normal. It's not art with politics to destroy the law. The art and true virtue is to make politics in accordance with the law. Once again, I will remind you that three elements are needed to resolve the constitutional crisis in Poland: to take a vow from legal and in accordance with the constitution of elected judges, to print the judgment of 9 March and a bill that will not paralyze the Constitutional Tribunal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u248	Thank you. I would like to ask Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz to provide a justification for the bill in print No 558.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u249	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Before I proceed with the presentation of the draft by Members of the Law and Justice, I wanted to stress what was not taken into account, and it is extremely important, in the speech of my previous speaker. [[It's not a time for polemics, it's a time for justification.]] For the first time in many years, it has happened that the citizens' project is being conducted in the first place. [[Applause]] Few have voted in favour of this civil project on the agenda of the current session of the Sejm. [[Applause]] Representatives of the Civic Platform and the Modern Club were opposed to putting the citizens' project on the agenda. It is worth noting that today's governing group has consistently, repeatedly over the past eight years, demanded respect for civic projects. And today we have shown that we do not change our opinions in this regard. That is why a representative of the Civil Committee had the opportunity to present the citizens' project first - and today. [[Besides, it's a poppy fig.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Constitutional Tribunal is a judicial authority operating for 30 years in the Polish legal system. Its jurisdiction is defined in the Constitution of the Republic of Poland of 1997. 197 held that the organisation of the tribunal and the procedure for proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal were governed by the law. It is currently the Act of 25 June 2015 on the Constitutional Court. Several months of application of this act, already amended several times, shows that the solutions contained therein need to be reviewed. According to § 84 of the Annex to the Regulation of the President of the Council of Ministers of 20 June 2002 on the principles of legislative technique: In view of the above, in view of the numerous legal problems related to the Act of 25 June 2015 on the Constitutional Court, signalled by national and international entities interested in maintaining constitutional order, it is appropriate to draw up and issue a new law in this area. In particular, this need also arises from the fact of a legal dispute involving the Constitutional Tribunal itself. On 9 March 2016, in Case K 47/15 pending before the Court of Justice, the Court, in proceedings in the composition of an unknown constitution and law, reached a decision which does not meet the standards of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. The resulting refusal of publication and further action of the tribunal alongside the applicable law poses a threat to the legal order contrary to the principles of legal certainty and security. The legislative activity, which has the right to rule universally and to regulate the rules of procedure before the Court, can solve this problem by repealing the controversial 2015 act and issuing a new regulation. The practice of the Constitutional Tribunal to enter into force of the 2015 Act, including the resources of organisational experience, as well as of proceedings and decisions, leads to the conclusion that the provisions of the Act of 1 August 1997 on the Constitutional Court, i.e. the Law preceding the 2015 Act, provided that the body with a smooth functioning and proper fulfilment of its powers. The change thus undertaken is formally complete. The law will have a new shape, but in practice it will be easy to accept. After all, it is based on a law well known to the authorities of the State, including the Constitutional Court, because it was ruled on the basis of it several months ago. The law only introduced, I am talking about this 1997 law, a few major amendments, about seven articles, and a dozen partial adaptations of existing standards resulting precisely from the above mentioned at the beginning of the sentence of the amendments, called essential. The designer introduced them in order to improve the process and to improve the rank and legitimacy of the decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal. He also took into account the relevant case law of the Court with them. The draft law on the Constitutional Tribunal is based on four chapters. Chapter 1 concerns the jurisdiction and system of the Constitutional Tribunal. Chapter 2 sets out proceedings before the Court, general provisions, proceedings for the compatibility of ratified international agreements and normative acts with the Constitution and on legal questions, ruling on constitutional complaints, resolving disputes of competence, examining the compatibility of political parties' objectives or activities with the Constitution. Chapter 3 governs the rules and procedures for the judgment and enforcement of judgments, hearings, hearings and rulings of the tribunal. Chapter 4 contains transitional and final provisions. The first provisions of the proposed law refer to the political position of the tribunal resulting from the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. With regard to the jurisdiction and system of the Constitutional Tribunal, the proposed law characterizes it as a judicial authority and determines its competence by referring to the scope indicated in the Constitution of the Republic of Poland - art. 1, Article Article 2 and Article 2 3 projects. Art. 4 of the project regulates the scope of the information obligations of the Constitutional Tribunal, which the Tribunal carries out in relation to Parliament, i.e. the Sejm and the Senate. This is not only due to the principle of the division of authorities, but also to the mutual balance of authorities. This mechanism consists in the fact that the legislative authority creates acts subject to scrutiny and, if necessary, executes decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal by creating in place of provisions recognised by the Constitutional Tribunal as contrary to the constitution of legal remedies. To provide the Sejm and the Senate with information on the relevant problems arising from the activities and case-law of the Court and the possibility to submit observations on the deficiencies found and gaps in the law, which are necessary to ensure the consistency of the legal system of the Republic of Poland, is also an expression resulting from the principle of division and balance of power of the obligation to cooperate with the authorities laid down in the preamble to the Constitution of the Republic of Poland of 1997. This is all the more important because the Constitution of the Republic of Poland did not confer on the Constitutional Court the power to introduce legal standards into the legal system, in particular the legislator did not authorize the Court to lay down rules of law in general. In the area of constitutional competence of the tribunal, there is also no known doctrine, although strongly debatable and controversial, an institution to revive the old provisions of the law by recognising contradictions with the constitution of the new standards. Art. The 5th draft shall determine the composition of the Constitutional Tribunal and the term of office of the Judges of the Tribunal. The provision provides that the Constitutional Tribunal shall consist of 15 judges, which is a consequence of constitutional norms. The term of office of Judges shall be nine years. Art. 5 of the proposed law also defines the qualifications of candidates for a judge, which clarify the constitutional wording that they are chosen from among those who stand out in legal knowledge, that is, Article. Paragraph 194. 1st sentence and next sentence of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 the proposed law lays down the rules for the submission of candidates for judges, so that this belongs to a group of at least 50 Members or the Sejm Bureau, and the rules for their selection: a resolution adopted by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the total number of Members. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The rules and procedures for the taking of the oath by the persons elected as Judge of the Constitutional Tribunal have been laid down in 5 and 6 of the draft. The legislator authorizes the President of the Republic of Poland to receive it. In the text of this article we will also find a rota of oaths and the consequences described both in terms of refusing to take it and in terms of taking it. In the first case, this is tantamount to resigning. The consequence of the taking of the oath is the right to enter into office and, at the same time, the duty of the President of the Constitutional Tribunal to create such a judge's conditions for the taking up of the duties of judge. This is the consequence of the judgment of the Constitutional Court of First Instance. K 34/15, in which we read - quote: The vows made to the President in accordance with Article. Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Constitutional Tribunal Act is not merely a solemn ceremony of a symbolic nature, referring to the traditional inauguration of the term of office. This event has two important functions. First of all, it is a public promise by the judge to act in accordance with the vows he has made. In this way, the judge declares his/her personal responsibility for the impartial and careful performance of his/her duties in accordance with his/her conscience and respect for the dignity of his/her office. Secondly, the taking of the oath allows the judge to begin office, i.e. the execution of the mandate entrusted to him. These two important aspects of the vow show that it is not just a solemn occasion, but an event with concrete legal implications. For this reason, the involvement of the President in taking the oath from the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal elected by the Sejm should be placed in the sphere of the exercise of the powers of the head of state. The result is an obligation for the President of the Tribunal to ensure that the judge is given the oath of the conditions enabling him to perform his judicial duties. This involves the independence of the judge. The only person entitled to restrict the performance of his duties by the judge shall be a disciplinary court. The subsequent provisions of the proposed Chapter 1 concern the remuneration of the judge. They depend on the average remuneration determined by the Central Statistical Office, using a specified multiplier. They also introduce an institution of retirement after the end of its term of office, regardless of the retirement age. The rules of the judge's operation are based on his independence. Art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1 Constitution of the Republic of Poland - followed by Art. Article 6 (6) (a) 1 of the proposed law - states that: "Judges of the Court in the exercise of their office are not bound by the Constitution and are subject only to the Constitution. However, independence cannot be regarded as the subjective right of the judge. It is a quality which determines the substance of the performance of the judge's office and thus guarantees the fairness of the judgment. One guarantee of independence is the institution of immunity. However, immunity is not absolute, but only functional. It is therefore permissible to enter the scope of judicial independence, to the extent necessary, where the aim is to protect the seriousness, authority and independence of the judicial authority - similarly in the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 24 June 1998, sygn. K 3/98. On the basis of the above, Article 2 (1) of the basic Regulation provides that the aid is compatible with the internal market and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. The 7th draft introduces an This is to prevent situations where the judge, relying on his independence and immunity, will act without a legal basis or going beyond the law. Neither independence nor immunity guaranteeing immunity are the institutions to ensure the impunity of the judge or to exclude him from the law. The legislator authorised to waive immunity has been appointed by the General Assembly of the Constitutional Tribunal. Art. The proposed law sets out the responsibilities of disciplinary action and its Article. 9 and 10 are introducing a disciplinary procedure. The following provisions shall determine the composition of the disciplinary court, at first instance, in the composition of 5 judges of the tribunal, in the second instance, in the full composition of the judges of the tribunal, and disciplinary penalties such as reprimand, reprimand, removal from the position of Judge of the tribunal. A general assembly shall be established by drawing lots by the Judges to the formations of the hearing officer. Art. The 11th draft law sets out the grounds for the expiry of the mandate. The termination of the mandate as a result of a decision on the detention of a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal by a disciplinary court was subject to the consent of the President of the Republic of Poland. This solution corresponds to the article. 126 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland, in which the Constitutional legislature entrusted the President with the task of upholding the Constitution. It is also related to the statutory position of the President of the Republic of Poland as the subject of taking the oath from the person elected as Judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. The President by law becomes the guarantor of the conduct of such a judge according to law and ethics. The President's agreement to terminate the mandate as a result of a ruling by a disciplinary court is also intended to guarantee additional protection for a judge who could be expelled from the service with an abuse of law by a general assembly. It is also worth noting that the absence of a right to be annulled in relation to a ruling by a disciplinary court is balanced. In the event of such a situation, the General Assembly shall act as a resolution to the President of the Republic of Poland and the President shall consent by way of a resolution. Chapter 1 of the proposed law also defines the bodies of the tribunal. According to Art. 12 are the General Assembly and the President of the Tribunal. The General Assembly shall be composed of judges of the Tribunal. The President of the Tribunal shall convene a general meeting at least once a year to discuss the activities of the Tribunal and the problems arising from its case law. The General Assembly shall also have the right to take part in other bodies which, by virtue of their powers, cooperate with the Constitutional Tribunal, i.e. the chair of the parliamentary committees concerned, the Senate committees, the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber, the Minister of Justice, the Prosecutor General, the First President of the Supreme Court, the President of the Supreme Administrative Court, the Ombudsman and the Ombudsman of the Rights of the Child. The President of the Tribunal shall notify the President of the Republic of Poland, the Marshal of the Sejm, the Marshal of the Senate and the President of the Council of Ministers, who may also attend the General Assembly or delegate their representative. Art. 14 of the project indicates the competence of the General Assembly. These include the adoption of the Rules of Procedure of the Court, the selection of candidates for the President and Vice-President of the Court, the appointment and dismissal of the Head of the Office of the Constitutional Tribunal, the adoption of the Statute of the Tribunal's Office, the adoption of a draft of the Court's revenue and expenditure, the approval of the information referred to in Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1, performing other activities provided for by the General Assembly in the Act or in the Rules of Procedure. This article also sets out the procedure for the operation of the assembly in the following paragraphs. It shall form a quorum allowing the adoption of resolutions at the level of at least 10 Judges of the Tribunal, which shall constitute 2/3 of the total number of Judges referred to in Article. Paragraph 194. 1 Constitution of 15 Judges. One of those 10 judges must be the President or Vice-President of the Tribunal. The figure 10 represents 2/3 of the figure 15, so this is not an amended level compared to the standard adopted in 1997. The article also formulates voting rules. Resolutions shall be adopted by a simple majority, unless otherwise provided for in the Act. The agenda of the General Assembly and its time limit shall be notified by the President of the Tribunal to all Judges of the Tribunal at least 7 days before the date. Only in specific cases may the General Assembly consider itself capable of adopting resolutions, despite failure to comply with that deadline. However, this is not possible when the assembly elects candidates to be president or vice-president of the Constitutional Tribunal. The choice of these persons is too important to be carried out in exceptional circumstances with reduced deadlines. It is more important to keep all formalities in particular. The General Assembly shall be chaired by the President or Vice-President of the Tribunal. One of the resolutions is the Rules of Procedure of the Court, which is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. This is an act of internal law which is based on the functioning of the Court. The Rules of Procedure shall enter into force on the day of publication. Such a formula without vacathio legis is acceptable because it is an act of internal law and the principle of a democratic rule of law that does not prevent it. The statutory indication of the moment of entry into force arises from the obligation to publish. The introduction of this obligation does not require any amendment to the Law of 20 July 2000 on the publication of normative acts and certain other acts, since its Article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 says: 'Polish Monitor' also announces other legal acts, as well as announcements, notices and communications of bodies, institutions and persons, if separate laws so provide. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The 15 projects shall be governed by the rules governing the election of the President and the Vice-President of the Tribunal. The candidates shall be appointed by the General Assembly. It should select and indicate at least three candidates. The target number of candidates, at least three, shall be determined on the basis of the general functioning of the General Assembly. The President of the Republic of Poland shall appoint the President of the Republic of Poland from among the general candidates appointed by the General Assembly. This is the constitutional right of the President of the Republic of Poland of the rank of prerogatives. It is therefore part of the decision of the President's full discretion. Further paragraphs of this article also specify the rules and deadlines for the assembly to proceed on the selection of candidates. Thus, candidates for the position of President or Vice-President of the Tribunal shall be elected by the General Assembly by means of a secret ballot from among the judges of the Tribunal who obtained the highest number of votes. The President of the Tribunal shall transmit the resolution with the names of the candidates to the President of the Republic of Poland. The transfer shall take place immediately. The General Assembly on the election of candidates for the position of President or Vice-President of the Tribunal shall take place between 30 and 15 days before the end of the term of office of the President-in-Office or Vice-President. From the time when the Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal were informed of the date of the general meeting until the beginning of that meeting, any Judge of the Tribunal may declare himself or another Judge of the Tribunal as a candidate for the position of President or Vice-President. The application shall be made in writing to the President of the Tribunal. The General Assembly shall be held in the section concerning the selection of candidates for the position of President or Vice-President of the Tribunal, chaired by the oldest Judge of the Court participating in the General Assembly. The President of the Tribunal shall, after the opening of the general meeting at which the vote on the candidates will take place, forward the applications to the judge who will chair the deliberations in the section on the selection of candidates for the position of President or Vice-President of the Tribunal. Voting cards shall be drawn up on the basis of the applications. The data of the candidates submitted shall be entered on the ballots in alphabetical order. All the judges referred to in the article have the right to take part in the elections. Paragraph 194. 1st Constitution. However, the standard establishes a quorum enabling elections to be held. It shall deliver at least 10 Judges to the Tribunal. Any Judge participating in the election of a candidate for President or Vice-President of the Tribunal may vote only for one of the candidates applied for. In the event of the vacancy of the President or Vice-President of the Tribunal, the selection of candidates shall be carried out in the same manner and time limits. During the period when the position of President of the Tribunal is not filled, the Tribunal shall be chaired by the Vice-President on the general principles laid down in the following articles of the Act. In the following articles of Chapter 1, the draft law defines the powers of the President and Vice-President of the Constitutional Tribunal. In view of the independence of the judges, this role has been limited to the representation of the Court outside and other activities laid down in the Constitutional Tribunal's Act and Rules of Procedure. It also defines the tasks of the vice president and the situations of replacement. The organisational and administrative working conditions of the Tribunal shall be ensured by the President of the Tribunal and by the sub-office of the Tribunal. The President of the Tribunal shall direct the Head, who shall be appointed and cancelled by the General Assembly at the request of the President of the Tribunal. The Head of Office shall be appointed financially at the level of the Undersecretary of State. The detailed scope of the tasks and structure of the Tribunal's office shall be laid down in the statutes. The rules on the staff of the Court's office shall apply to the staff of the public authorities. There are also issues of budget adoption. The rules of procedure before the Court are laid down in the Constitutional Tribunal Act. In cases not regulated, the law refers to the provisions of the Civil Procedure Code. This is what Chapter 2 of the proposed act treats. One of the basic principles of proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal is that it should examine all relevant circumstances in the course of the proceedings in order to clarify the matter comprehensively. In the course of the proceedings, the Court shall not be bound by the conclusions of the parties to the proceedings and may, of its own motion, allow evidence which it considers appropriate to clarify the case. The courts and other public authorities shall provide assistance to the Court and, at its request, submit a file of proceedings relating to the proceedings before the Court. In particular, the Tribunal may request information from the Supreme Court and the Supreme Administrative Court as to the interpretation of a particular rule of law in judicial case law. Such a solution strengthens the principle of independence of the Constitutional Tribunal and promotes the implementation of the principle of material truth, i.e. in the case of proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal to determine any circumstances concerning the assessment of the legality or constitutionality of the contested legislative act. Art. 23 of the project guarantees the transparency of the proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal. Exceptions may be made to this rule if the specific provision so provides. Art. The 23th draft in subsequent paragraphs indicates rules on the protection of classified information. The chairman of the formation of the court may exclude disclosure for reasons of state security or the protection of classified information, whether classified or classified. The Judges of the Tribunal shall be entitled to have access to classified information related to the case recognised by the Tribunal. The witness or expert may be heard as to the circumstances constituting classified information about the secret classification, or the fact that the competent authority is exempt from the obligation of secrecy. The refusal of consent may be justified only by an important interest of the State. The witness or expert may not exercise the right to refuse to testify if the tribunal considers such refusal to be unfounded. The draft also lays down the rules governing the costs of proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal, which prejudges the fact that the costs are borne by the Treasury. Article is relevant from the point of view of the case-law. 25 of the proposed act. It lays down rules for the composition of formations. In discussions on the shape of formations in recent months, it has been argued that when deciding that different cases will be dealt with by the Constitutional Tribunal in various formations, the legislator is obliged to divide cases according to well-chosen and reasonable criteria. Cases which are more complex or concerning the constitutionality of legal acts placed above the hierarchy of legal sources should be recognised by higher formations than those relating to the constitutionality of relatively low-ranked legal acts. The various groups emphasized that the legislator could not divide cases between different formations which ruled freely and arbitraryly, since this is a form of classification of cases recognised by the Court according to their importance and importance. For these reasons, the draftsman has decided to propose that three types of formations be adjudicated: full membership, seven judges and three judges. The criterion for the division of cases between different compositions is of a particular nature. It consists of the gradation of cases recognised by the composition depending on the type of act and the substance of the case under review. In its full composition, the Constitutional Tribunal is to rule on matters of competence between the central constitutional authorities of the State, to establish an obstacle to the exercise of office by the President of the Republic and to entrust the Marshal of the Sejm with the temporary performance of the duties of the President of the Republic, on compliance with the constitution of the purposes or activities of the political party, on the application of the President of the Republic to declare the law compatible with the Constitution prior to its signature or international agreement with the Constitution before its ratification, and on matters of particular complexity. The problem of assessing and recognising the case as a matter of particular complexity leaves the law to the President of the Tribunal. However, it also forms a circle of alternative entities, which may also consider a case to be particularly complex. This is due to the fact that different entities have different positions in the state's system and are guided by other considerations of assessment. Therefore, from the perspective of the tribunal, the formation of the court may find it particularly complicated. Composition of the Court it is also one of those who may find the case particularly complex and request that it be recognised in full. The external entity, which can propose, request full membership, is the President of the Republic of Poland, who is the guardian of the Constitution, so he can demand an assessment of the constitutionality of the problems in full composition, i.e. the more legitimized and representative composition. The projector joined the group of these entities with the Attorney General. The Attorney General may apply to the Constitutional Court in the cases referred to in Article. 188 constitutions. In addition to this power, this body has been a participant in the proceedings before the Court since the beginning of the Constitutional Tribunal, which resulted from successive Constitutional Court laws: 1985, 1997 or 2015. The powers of the Prosecutor-General are linked to the fact that the body is upholding the rule of law and has the task of protecting the public interest. In view of the position of the Prosecutor General in proceedings before the Court, it is appropriate for that authority to request that a case of particular complexity be referred to the full composition. This is supported by the political role of the prosecutor as a public-interest guardian. It should be borne in mind that the control of constitutionality is intended first to ensure order in the legal system and to eliminate illegal acts or parts thereof. This indirectly affects the individual interests of individual entities. In favour of forming the powers of the Prosecutor-General referred to in Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1 point (1) (a) f of the project, the The long-standing experience of the Office of the Prosecutor General as a body involved in proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal makes it appropriate to identify and define a case as particularly complex, which should be considered as a full body, so that the entire composition of the Tribunal can establish the rule of law in such a way that it is fairly and in a deeper way. Those bodies shall make an appropriate request to the Court. It shall result in the operation of the relevant bodies of the tribunal in the statutory procedures resulting in the transfer of the case to full court. The application for recognition of the case is particularly complex for the President and the Prosecutor General, limited by a deadline of 60 days from receipt of information on the pending proceedings. Such a limitation of the time limit is due to the requirement of reasonableness of the procedure. It is also adapted to other terms determining the different stages of the process. Such a case of particular complexity shall also be deemed to be a matter under the law in which the particular complexity relates to the financial charges not provided for in the budget law or where the formation of the court intends to depart from the legal view expressed in the judgment given in full composition. The full ruling also concerns the Constitutional Court Act. [[Another, already the fourth bill.]] In the composition of 7 judges, the Tribunal is to rule on: the compatibility of laws or ratified international agreements with the Constitution, the compatibility of laws with international agreements, the ratification of which required the prior consent of the Act. In the composition of three judges, the Tribunal would have to rule on matters such as the compatibility of other normative acts with the Constitution, ratified international agreements and laws, the complaints of refusing to grant a run to applications for a declaration of conformity of a normative act with the Constitution, ratified international agreements or laws and constitutional complaints, and the exclusion of a judge. Art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 of the draft law defines at the same time that a full court requires the participation of at least 11 judges of Such a quorum is to be a guarantee that, when deciding on the most important matters of particular importance to the State, all or almost all of the composition of the tribunal will take part in the decision, which will have an impact on the formation of the authority of the judgment given and of the authority itself. The rank of full court may also be demonstrated by the fact that the hearing is chaired by the President or Vice-President of the Tribunal and, in the event of obstacles to the chairing of these persons, by the oldest Judge of the Tribunal. The number of members is due to the particular importance of cases. Minor matters shall be dealt with in the composition of 5 Judges. Since most cases, including constitutional applications, will be dealt with in the composition of 5 judges, it is not possible to raise the plea that the composition of 11 judges may block the action of the tribunal in the context of the examination of constitutional applications, as raised in the amendment of the Constitutional Court Act in December 2015. After all, the solution provided for the examination of all full-time applications, which consisted of 13 judges. The current solution to the full level only shifts the most important issues. It also leaves the possibility of raising the adjudicator's composition from five to full members as indicated in the standard. This is also in line with European standards. According to the Venice Commission in its opinion of 11 March 2016, the requirement for 2/3 of the total number of judges of the Constitutional Court appears to be most commonly used in European countries. This is a quote from the opinion of the Venice Commission. The Judges shall be appointed by the President of the Tribunal, including the Chair and the Judge-Rapporteur, taking into account the order of influence of the cases. The last, fourth paragraph of this standard sets a deadline for the President of the Republic, in which he may exercise his power to request a change of composition for the full composition of the hearing. It shall be 60 days after receipt of the information on receipt of the request referred to in Article. 33. In this way, the President's law and reasonableness of conduct have been balanced. The late submission of an application could block the procedure. On the other hand, the Act does not specify a time limit for a possible proposal on the part of the formation of the court. This is a conscious action, because it allows the composition to make such a conclusion at any time when it is necessary, even if the problem becomes apparent during the hearing. In the light of the principle of impartiality and independence of the judiciary, the draft lays down rules for the exclusion of a judge from the law. The Judge shall be exempt from taking part in a decision in cases in which: he has issued a contested normative act, judgment, administrative decision or other decision or participated in them, has been a representative, proxy, legal adviser or adviser to one of the parties to the proceedings, there are other reasons justifying the exclusion of the Judge referred to in Article. 48 Code of Civil Procedure. It is also possible to exclude a judge at his request or at the request of a participant in the proceedings if other circumstances likely to give rise to doubt as to his impartiality are established. The President of the Tribunal shall decide to exclude the judge for the reasons set out in the law and, for other reasons, the tribunal. Until such time as the case is settled for the exclusion of the Judge of the Tribunal, the Judge of the Tribunal may only act as a matter of urgency. Art. The 27 projects identify a number of participants in the proceedings. They shall be: an entity which has submitted an application or a constitutional complaint, an authority which has issued an application or a constitutional complaint, or a Public Prosecutor's Office of the Treasury, if the Council of Ministers has appointed the Public Prosecutor General of the Treasury to represent the Council of Ministers or ministers in proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal, a court which has submitted a legal question to the Constitutional Court, provided that it has submitted its participation in proceedings initiated as a result of that legal question and has appointed from among the judges of that court a authorised representative, a party's statutory body in matters relating to the conformity of political parties' objectives or activities with the Constitution, a central constitutional authority of the State to which the dispute relates, a prosecutor general, representatives of the Sejm, the President of the Republic of Poland and the Minister of Foreign Affairs in matters relating to the declaration of conformity with the constitution of international agreements ratified under Article. Article 89 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Constitution, representatives of the President of the Republic and the Minister for Foreign Affairs in matters relating to the declaration of conformity with the Constitution of other ratified international agreements, the Ombudsman of civil rights, if he has submitted his participation in proceedings relating to a constitutional complaint, the Ombudsman of the rights of the child, if he has submitted his participation in proceedings initiated at the request of the Ombudsman or in proceedings relating to a constitutional complaint concerning the rights of the child. Where the President of the Republic requests that the case be considered particularly complex, the Act shall also confer on him the status of participant in such proceedings. This is a consequence of the President's behaviour and respect for his interests as guardian of the Constitution. This also applies to situations where the President requests that the case be dealt with outside the order of influence. In a particular case concerning the recognition of the temporary inability of the President of the Republic to hold office, the hearing is attended personally by the Marshal of the Sejm, the Marshal of the Senate, the First President of the Supreme Court and the Attorney General. In other cases, the participant may act before the tribunal himself or by an authorised representative. The representative of the Marshal of the Sejm or a group of Members must be a Member. In addition to representatives, representatives may also be appointed from among persons who are not Members or Senators of a maximum of three. The Prosecutor-General or his deputy shall take part in cases which are recognised by the Court in full composition in cases which are dealt with in another composition by the Prosecutor-General of the National Public Prosecutor's Office. [[You'd better finish reading.]] [[Voice from the room: We all know how to read.]] The draft law sets out in detail the issue of pleadings. It also allows the applicant to withdraw his application, legal questions or complaints until the hearing begins. [[Sir, don't make jokes.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the presentation of the project comes down to the presentation of the provisions of the Act. As it is important, I had the opportunity to see during yesterday's program, when one of my fellow Members, my adversaries, criticized the bill, and from this criticism it was clear that he did not know the text of the law at all. The presentation of the project includes the presentation of the provisions of the Act. [[Quiet!]] The draft law sets out in detail the issue of pleadings and allows the applicant to withdraw his application, legal questions or complaints until the hearing begins. It reflects the rules of availability. It is up to the initiating party to initiate proceedings before the Court to launch an audit. The applicant, the court or the complainant may, under the conditions laid down in the law, have its procedural and material rights in the proceedings. In view of being a participant in the proceedings, the entities concerned also have certain obligations under the proposed law. In particular, letters initiating proceedings must comply with the formal requirements. Here, in response to your suggestions, I will leave this section of the justification which describes the formal requirements of the pleadings. [[Applause]] Art. 34 projects... [[We'd better move on to 90.]] ...obliges the parties to the proceedings to provide the Court with all the explanations relating to the case and to submit the evidence necessary for its comprehensive explanation. This corresponds with the statutory obligation for the Court to examine the case in a comprehensive manner and to establish the material truth which, in proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal, is either to establish the compatibility or non-compliance of the normative act or part thereof with the Constitution. The parties to the proceedings shall have the right to review the case file and to draw up and receive copies or extracts thereof. The President of the Tribunal or the President of the formation of the Tribunal may allow other persons to review the file where this is justified by the important legal interest of that person or by the public interest. This does not apply to cases recognised except for disclosure. These regulations ensure that the proceedings before the Court are made public, which is part of a fair procedure before that body. Such rules promote the building of confidence in the state and the law, thus fulfilling the principle of a democratic rule of law. Art. The 36th draft law clarifies the rules for examining the requests of the entities referred to in Article. 191. I'll skip the further development, move on to the article. 37 of the proposed act. The President shall refer proposals and legal questions on which no formal obstacles arise to the hearing to be heard by the competent formation of the Tribunal and shall fix the time limits for the hearing. In turn, the article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 clarifys the rules for the appointment of certain time limits. I think that these issues are important and I will continue to justify them. The principle is that the hearings at which applications are to be dealt with are to be appointed in the order of influence to the Constitutional Court. But this standard is not ruthless. We take into account the conclusions, the criticisms of previous debates. This standard is not ruthless. Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of The proposed act provides for exceptions to the obligation to deal with requests in the order of impact at the hearing. These are cases: proposals on the compatibility of laws before their signature and international agreements prior to their ratification with the Constitution, proposals on compliance with the Constitution of the Budget Act or the Law on a budget commission prior to their signature, proposals on compliance with the Constitution of the Constitutional Tribunal Act, requests for a finding of an obstacle to the President's exercise of office and entrusting the Marshal of the Sejm with temporary performance of duties, requests for disputes concerning jurisdiction between central constitutional authorities of the State. The President of the Republic may also request that the order of inquiry be omitted. At his request, the President of the Tribunal shall be obliged to set a time limit for the hearing without requiring the order of inquiry. This is the result of the President's powers as guardian of the Constitution. Such exceptions loosen the rigid statutory provision and allow for rational management of the issue of the compatibility of laws with the Constitution, as well as guarantee a priority for civil matters, including legal questions. In the case of a joint examination of applications, the time limit for examination shall be determined by the date of impact of the first application. The inclusion of the President in a procedure which makes it possible to derogate from the principle of dealing with applications at hearings in the order of influence is an expression of the cooperation of the authorities. In this way, the legislator shall include the body to ensure that the Constitution is respected in the proceedings before the Tribunal and thus in the system of protection of constitutional order. This could also inspire applicants who want to consider the proposal without a statutory order, to establish a dialogue with the President in order to promote the common good and build a democratic rule of law. Art. The 38th draft shall determine the terms of reference of the chairman of the formation. Art. 39 sets out the conditions for the termination of proceedings. The draft law provides that the other matters relating to internal proceedings at the Constitutional Court are to be governed by the Rules of Procedure and it should therefore be borne in mind that the Rules of Procedure of the Tribunal are an internal act and therefore cannot contain provisions of a general nature. Therefore, this act can only regulate internal proceedings in the Court of Justice, which are not regulated by the Court Act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure shall be binding only on the organisational units subject to the issuing authority. They shall not be able to establish powers or obligations vis-à-vis third parties. The procedure for establishing the compatibility of ratified international agreements and normative acts with the Constitution and on legal questions shall be based on the mandatory participation in the hearing of the authority which issued the normative act covered by the proposal or its representative. The President of the Republic of Poland, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Prosecutor General, and in the case of international agreements ratified in accordance with Article, are required to participate in the hearing on the compatibility of ratified international agreements with the Constitution. Article 89 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Constitution - also the representative of the Sejm. Art. 42 sets out the criteria for the control of constitutionality by the Constitutional Tribunal. In accordance with that provision, the Tribunal, when deciding on the compatibility of a normative act with the Constitution, may examine the content of a normative act or part thereof, or the procedure for issuing it as set out in the Constitution. By proposing such an editorial provision, the projector wants to address the problems arising from cases in which the legislative procedure is contested in the case-law practice. In particular, Article. 42 of the proposal prejudices that the control of the procedure for issuing a normative act is to apply only to the rules resulting from the Constitution. This will avoid controversy over the assessment of statutory and law-making laws. This will also allow the Court to conclude discussions on the allegations raised that, in controlling the legislative procedure, it does not examine the compatibility of lower-rank acts with higher-ranking acts, and it carries out horizontal and even higher-ranking checks on the compatibility of a higher-rank act with a lower-ranking act, which it cannot do under the Constitution. Furthermore, setting a clear reference point in the case of scrutiny of the legislative procedure, such as the Constitution, will promote legal certainty. At the same time, this will be a safeguard against the abuse to date of arguments relating to legislative shortcomings within the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm or the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, which were not based on detailed provisions of the Constitution of the legislative procedure. The draft also introduces two specific issues into the procedure. The first concerns the request by the President of the Republic to the Court to declare compliance with the Constitution of the Budget Law or the Law on the Budget Provision before it is signed. The Tribunal shall then be required to rule on the case no later than 2 months after the date on which the application is lodged in the Court. On the other hand, in cases relating to the finding of conformity of a normative act with a constitution in which a judgment of the Tribunal may have effects relating to financial charges not provided for in the laws referred to in Article. 43, the President of the Tribunal is obliged to request an opinion from the Council of Ministers. The Council of Ministers should issue it within 2 months. The absence of an opinion of the Council of Ministers after the expiry of that deadline shall not hinder the examination of the case. In accordance with the draft, the rules on the determination of the compatibility of ratified international agreements and normative acts with the Constitution shall apply mutatis mutandis to the recognition of a legal question. A separate part of the bill is the ruling on constitutional complaints. A constitutional action may be brought after the expiry of the legal road, provided that this road is provided for, within 3 months of the service of the final judgment, final decision or other final decision to the applicant. The complaint shall be dealt with in accordance with the principles and procedures laid down for the recognition of applications for the compatibility of laws with the Constitution and other normative acts with the Constitution or laws. However, in the case of complaints, the provisions relating to applications relating to their identification in the order of impact shall not apply. It's important, that's what I'm pointing out. This means that the time limit for handling complaints remains at the Court's disposal. In addition to the requirements of the pleading, the action should contain: a precise definition of the law or other normative act on the basis of which the court or public administration finally ruled on the freedoms or rights or obligations set out in the Constitution and for which the applicant seeks the declaration of non-compliance with the Constitution, an indication of what constitutional freedoms or rights and how, in the complainant's view, the grounds for the action were infringed, the reasons for the complaint, stating the precise description of the facts. The action shall be accompanied by a judgment, decision or other decision giving the date of service, based on the contested normative act. It follows from the above that the designer has maintained the existing requirements for a constitutional complaint. In the context of the constitutional complaint, the lawyer's coercion was maintained. An action and a complaint against the order to refuse the application must be made by a lawyer or legal counsel, unless the complainant is a judge, a prosecutor, a notary, a professor or a habilited doctor of legal sciences. The applicants are entitled to establish a lawyer or counsel of their own motion on the basis of the Civil Procedure Code for financial reasons. The complaint shall be subject to prior recognition by law. In the event of a constitutional complaint, the Tribunal may issue the so-called Tribunal. provisional provision. It concerns individual complainants and its purpose is to safeguard the interests of the complainant or of the public interest. It is a provision to suspend or suspend the enforcement of the decision in the case in question if the enforcement of the judgment, decision or other decision could have irreversible consequences, which would be a serious loss to the complainant, or where there is a serious public interest or other important interest of the complainant. That order shall be served without delay on the applicant and the competent judicial authority or enforcement authority. It should be pointed out that the drafter knowingly provided for the possibility of issuing a provisional order only in cases pending on the basis of constitutional complaints, since, in this form of review, the decision of the Court may have an impact on the enforcement of the final judgment in the case. In the abstract review initiated by the proposal, the impact of the judgment of the tribunal on the entity will be only indirect, the audit of the application there is no direct link with individual private entities' affairs. In the case of legal questions, it is not necessary to issue a provisional order, since the case is not yet completed and the decision to be delivered by the court depends on the reply of the Constitutional Tribunal. The Tribunal shall inform the Ombudsman and the Ombudsman of the initiation of proceedings on a constitutional complaint. On the other hand, the Ombudsman and the Ombudsman may, within 60 days of receipt of the information, declare their participation in the proceedings. Art. The 52nd draft provides that the parties to the constitutional complaint proceedings before the Tribunal shall be the complainant, the authority which issued the contested normative act, or the Public Prosecutor's Office of the State Treasury if the Council of Ministers has appointed a prosecutor to represent the Council of Ministers or Ministers in proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal and the Public Prosecutor General. The ombudsman shall also be a participant if he has submitted his participation in the proceedings and the ombudsman if he has submitted his participation in proceedings initiated at the request of the ombudsman or in proceedings for a constitutional complaint concerning the rights of the child. The consequence is also to include it in the catalogue of entities of this article. The hearing shall take place regardless of the appearance of the parties to the proceedings. The proposed law regulates the settlement of a dispute of competence. As a dispute of competence, the law defines a situation where two or more central constitutional authorities of a State have considered themselves competent to settle the same case or have issued a decision in it, or where those authorities have found themselves inappropriate to settle a particular case. This is a development of the powers of the Court as defined in Article. 189 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland. The Court shall rule on a dispute of competence at the request of one of the authorities. They are also mentioned in Article. 192 constitutions. The proposal should indicate the contested act or omission and the provision of the Constitution or the provision of the law which has been infringed. The initiation of proceedings before the tribunal shall result in the suspension of proceedings before the authorities which have a dispute of competence. In the course of the proceedings, the Tribunal may, after familiarising itself with the position of the parties to the proceedings, also make provision for the provisional regulation of the matters at issue and, in particular, for the suspension of enforcement proceedings where this is necessary to prevent serious damage or caused by a particularly important social interest. The draft law also lays down a procedure for examining the compatibility of political parties' objectives or activities with the Constitution. The conclusions on the constitutional compatibility of the objectives of the political party as set out in the Statute or programme shall be recognised by the Court on the basis and in the manner provided for in the recognition of the conclusions on the compatibility of normative acts with the Constitution. In special situations, the Tribunal shall apply the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure accordingly. The burden of proving non-compliance with the Constitution lies with the applicant who, for this purpose, should provide or submit evidence of that non-compliance. In the proceedings, the political party shall be represented by the persons appointed to represent the party under the law and the statutes of the party. If it is not possible to determine who represents the party, or when it cannot be contacted, or when there has been a change of the person authorised after the application has been made to the tribunal, the Tribunal shall consider the person actually in charge of the party at the time when the applicant has taken up activities contrary to the Constitution. The Court may also instruct the Prosecutor-General to collect and consolidate evidence to the extent necessary to investigate the compatibility of the political party's activities with the Constitution. The provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure shall apply mutatis mutandis to this investigation. The scope of the proceedings referred to in the decision of the Court shall be binding. In Chapter 3, the draft law sets out the rules...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u250	Excuse me, sir. Could you tell us how much more time you're going to be presenting the project, because we already have a time limit for this point that's very much exceeded, and today we're working until 3:00 a.m. [[You'll make it by the hour. Three?]] So I'd like everyone to present their projects. If you could determine that, I would ask you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u251	Marshal, I realize we're in a hurry. However, I am also aware that if I do not present the project, it will increase the number of questions and then we will also lose time. [[Voice from the room: How long?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u252	I very much ask you, sir. We're already very late, and I'd really like to ask...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u253	Your Marshal, taking into account this suggestion and the suggestion of the High House, I will be brief as possible. I think it's gonna take me a few more minutes. Excuse me. [[I'd have asked from the beginning.]] [[Read it, Stasiek, read it, don't pay attention.]] In Chapter 3, the draft law sets out the rules and procedures for the judgment and enforcement of decisions. In the first place, this chapter regulates the issues of hearings and meetings. The Court shall act in principle at the hearing. Only in cases where the law does not require review at the hearing, the tribunal shall decide at the hearing. The Tribunal may exceptionally recognise a constitutional complaint at a sitting in secret if it is clear from the written positions of the parties to the proceedings that the normative act on the basis of which the court or public administration finally ruled on constitutional freedoms or rights or obligations of the applicant is incompatible with the Constitution. A judgment given under this procedure shall be made public. The draft law shall lay down the rules for the conduct of the hearings. According to Art. The 60th draft hearing may not take place earlier than 60 days after the notification of its date has been served so that the participants can prepare for it. However, there are exceptions to this principle. That period shall not apply to a preventive review of the budget law to be carried out by the Court no later than 2 months after the date of the application and to a request for the finding of an obstacle to the President's exercise of office, to which the Tribunal should proceed without delay. Compared to the current deadline - 6 months for applications, 3 months for civil affairs, this is a radical shortening of the time between the delivery of the notice and the moment of the hearing. However, the projector acknowledges the merit of the broad criticism raised that the deadline was too long, and therefore meets the expectations and shortens those deadlines. But at the same time, he thinks he stated that the period of 14 days provided for in the original version of the Constitutional Tribunal Act was too short. Therefore, by departing from the critical deadlines adopted in December 2015, the projector took the view that the optimal time limit for the hearing is currently set. According to the drafter, the 60-day deadline for notice of the hearing is to be a guarantee for the parties to the proceedings so that they can prepare themselves well for this hearing. It should be stressed that the mere preparation of the pleadings in the proceedings before the Tribunal is a different type of activity than the preparation for a hearing in which the participants must actively take part and answer questions, including those which were not the subject of the pleading. That time limit shall also be aligned with other time limits relating to the rights of the participants in the proceedings. In addition, the designer allows the possibility of shortening this term in civil matters. That's worth emphasising. As we read in the draft law, in the case of constitutional complaints and legal questions, the President of the Tribunal may reduce the time limit for the hearing by half, i.e. to 30 days, unless the person submitting the legal question or the constitutional complaint lodges an objection within 7 days. Such an objection is intended to ensure that this entity has the right to assess its ability to provide sufficient time to prepare for the hearing. It will allow him to balance his interests and to consider autonomously whether he prefers to settle the matter more quickly or whether to spend more time preparing himself. The presence at the hearing of the applicant shall be compulsory. In the event of failure of the applicant or his representative, the Tribunal shall either dismiss the proceedings or postpone the hearing. In the event of failure of the parties to proceedings whose presence at the hearing is compulsory, or their representatives, the Tribunal may postpone the hearing and fix a new period for it at the same time. The absence of a properly notified prosecutor-general or his representative or the absence of other parties to proceedings shall not hinder the investigation of the case unless the provisions of the Act require their participation in the hearing. Only in the absence of proof of service or irregularities in the service of the notice of hearing to the participants in the proceedings must the Tribunal postpone the hearing. He may also postpone the trial for other important reasons. Art. 61 and subsequent drafts shall lay down the rules for the conduct of the hearing. In this respect, the designer does not introduce solutions other than those used so far. The hearing shall begin with the summoning of the case, followed by the applicant and then the other parties to the proceedings shall present their views and evidence in support of them. The chairman of the formation of the court must give the floor to each participant in the proceedings. The Chair shall conduct the hearing by means of statutory instruments in his possession. The minutes shall be drawn up in the course of the hearing under the authority of the chairman of the formation of the Tribunal. The Protocol should contain specific information. I'll skip it, you can read it. Participants shall have the right to rectify... [[Fascinating.]] ...until the judgment is announced, and the minutes of the hearing at which the judgment was pronounced, within 14 days of the day of the hearing. The protocol is signed - and here it is specified who. From the course of the hearing a transcript or recording may be drawn up by means of sound recording apparatus. The President of the formation of the Tribunal shall close the hearing when the Tribunal considers the case sufficiently clarified. I come across, I avoid less, it seems, important fragments. When issuing a judgment, the Tribunal shall be bound by the limits of the application, the legal question or the complaint. The binding of the limits of the appeal should be understood in such a way that the framework for the court's ruling is determined by the court asking the legal question or the applicant the contested normative act or part of it and by the control pattern indicated by the applicant. This also relates to the principle of complaint, according to which action by an authorised entity is needed to initiate proceedings. It means that the tribunal cannot initiate proceedings of its own motion. The draft shall lay down the rules for decisions by the Constitutional Tribunal. The judgment of the Tribunal shall be delivered after a secret hearing of the Judges of the Tribunal. The meeting shall include a discussion and a vote on the decision to be taken and the essential reasons for the decision and the drawing-up of the decision. The hearing shall be chaired by the chairman of the formation of the adjudicator. In a case of particular complexity or for other important reasons, a decision may be postponed for a period not exceeding 14 days. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The 68th draft is a clarification of the constitutional standard relating to the majority of the decision taken in the formation of the court. The standard was adopted, which departs from the criticised solutions in the current June 2015 law in the version following the December amendment. It is based on a simple majority vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I stress this because this is an important issue that you have sought during the previous amendment. So once again, the foundation is a simple majority vote, but in important and exceptional situations relating only to full-time hearings, it is a majority vote. Two-thirds of the votes. It follows from the analysis of the Constitution of the Republic that it defines the principle of issuing judgments as a majority of votes, so it is enshrined in the Constitution. However, it does not specify this majority. In the Constitution, however, different standards of majority appear: qualified - 2/3 - and ordinary - with Article. 120 - as well as a non-specific phrase, as in the case of the tribunal - most of the votes. The latter is used, as I said, in the case of the Constitutional Tribunal. The rational action of the legislator is that it uses the same concepts within a given act to identify the same institutions and different concepts to identify different institutions. From this one can conclude that the concept of the ordinary majority, as enshrined in the Constitution, understood something other than the concept of the majority of votes. It makes it impossible to... [[We can read, sir.]] ...absolutely rule out a change in the understanding of the institution of the majority from the ordinary to the qualified institution when clarifying constitutional regulation by law. Also § The rule of legislative technique regulates this issue. I'll skip the big explanation. [[Game in the O.R.]] As mentioned above, in principle, the Court's ruling falls by a simple majority. However, in parallel, due to the effects of certain judgments, the designer decided to a higher standard. These are situations where the judgments issued in full concern: the finding of non-compliance with the constitution of a law or international agreement ratified with the consent of the law, the finding of non-compliance with the ratified international agreement, the ratification of which required the prior consent of the law, the finding of non-compliance with the constitution of the objectives or activities of political parties, the withdrawal from the legal view expressed in the judgment given in full composition, or are based on a preamble to the Constitution or the designated standards of Chapter I or Chapter II of the Constitution containing general clauses. It's an art. 1, 2, 4, 5, 7, 8, 9, 10, 15, 16. The adopted increased majority is intended to strengthen the legitimacy of such a ruling and to dismiss the allegations of abuse of power, especially with the possible very broad interpretation of the recitals or constitutional general clauses. [[Mr Grzegorz Długi gives Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz a glass of water]] Thank you very much. In its opinion of 11 March 2016, the Venice Commission recognises that only a simple majority of European legal systems are required. However, it also confirms that there are few - and limited - exceptions to this rule in Europe. On the other hand, it also confirms cases of binding unanimity. However, while respecting this opinion, the projector takes the view that the Polish Constitution's standards are a key point of reference, which is the will of a sovereign nation and that as the highest act of law in Poland does not prohibit the clarification of voting rules at the level of 2/3. However, it limits them to the above mentioned cases, which in practice will be rare. As they are relevant to you, such cases should be prepared. It also introduces them only to the full formation of the court, which is unique in nature. In this way, it double limits this type of procedure. Art. The 68th draft introduces a separate sentence to the institution. A member of the formation of a court who does not agree with the majority of voters may, before announcing the decision, make a separate statement justifying it in writing; a separate sentence shall be indicated in the judgment. A separate opinion may also relate to the justification itself.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u254	I beg you, sir, because I really...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u255	Your Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u256	...all the laws will be considered tomorrow before eight o'clock, the evening ones.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u257	Your Marshal, please note that this is a bill... [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u258	No, I'm sorry, please...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u259	...comprehensive... [[Read the justification.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u260	I know, but...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u261	...and systemic. But I'm almost done, Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u262	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u263	... Just a few more minutes...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u264	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u265	Excuse me. [[Reason...]] The judgment shall, in accordance with the draft law, sign the entire formation of the court, including the Judge voted on. [[Game in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, may I have a moment of patience? If someone is impatient, he doesn't need to hear it, he can leave the room. [[Game in the O.R.]] The bill provides for two forms of judgment: judgment and order. The Court gives judgments in matters relating to the compatibility of international laws and agreements with the Constitution, the compatibility of laws with ratified international agreements, the ratification of which requires the prior agreement expressed in the Act, the compliance of the laws issued by the central state authorities with the Constitution, the ratified international agreements and laws, in matters of constitutional complaints, the compatibility with the Constitution of the objectives of political parties' activities. On the other hand, provisions are made in other matters, and I will not mention them either. The draft law sets out the formal requirements of the Court's ruling - I will not discuss it in detail either. The Court may also set a time limit for the expiry of an existing normative act other than the time limit for its publication in the relevant Official Journal. If it so decides in the judgment, it shall specify that time limit. In addition to the judgment, the Tribunal shall give a written statement of reasons. He's got a one-month deadline. The reasons shall be signed by the judges of the Tribunal who voted on the decision. If any of the Judges cannot sign the statement of reasons, the chairman of the formation of the Judge shall indicate on the decision the reason for the non-signation. The reasons shall be given by the Tribunal for both the judgment and the provisions in matters relating to the preparation of the hearing or the sitting. Orders shall be issued in order. The proposed law provides for two forms of declaration of the judgment of the Court, each of which has a different function. The first is the public announcement of the judgment to the parties to the proceedings. At the time of delivery of the judgment, all present, except the formation of the court, stand. The judgment declared shall be orally justified, etc., etc. I'm not saying anything. I'm ignoring any further requirements. Art. 79 provides for the concrete implementation of Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the application of this Regulation. 2 of the Constitution according to which decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal in the matters referred to in Article. 188 shall be immediately notified in the official body in which the normative act was declared. If the act was not announced, the decision shall be published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. The Constitution does not distinguish between decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal. This is done by the proposed law in the article. 70, dividing judgments into judgments and orders. With regard to the obligation to publish a judgment in the official body of Article. 79. 1 provides that judgments of the Tribunal shall be subject, subject to paragraph 1. 2, announcements in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. I'll also skip that part. Art. 79. 4 of the project obliges the President to submit a request for publication of the judgment and substantive provisions to the President of the Council of Ministers. At the same time, it appears from the text of the draft law that it refers to the Law on the publication of normative acts and certain other legal acts on the rules governing the publication of judgments. In this way, the drafter does not duplicate in the Constitutional Court Act the requirements for the publication of judgments of the Tribunal within the meaning of Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the application of this Regulation. 2 constitutions. Nor does the proposer create a new legal regime in this respect which would be inconsistent with the principles of the publication of legal acts set out in a separate law. Art. 80 concerns the issuing of a set of decisions by the tribunal. This is also the case for further provisions, so I will also skip this issue. Chapter 4 contains amending and final provisions. The final provisions resolve the question of further investigation of cases not completed before the date of entry into force of the law. Since the proposed law does not alter the substance of the institution or the way in which it is conducted in relation to the legal arrangements that were defined under the provisions of the Constitutional Tribunal Act 1997 and some of the cases were brought before the Constitutional Tribunal under the rule of that law, the transitional provision adopts the principle of covering all proceedings before the Tribunal with a new law. This is so important that the conduct of proceedings under the 2015 Act is difficult due to the legal regime adopted by the Constitutional Tribunal. A general continuation of cases which have been brought before the Constitutional Court is therefore assumed but have not been completed on the basis of the existing provisions. This will mainly concern civil affairs conducted in the context of a specific audit, so initiated on the basis of constitutional complaints and legal questions. The Act also sets a deadline for the Court to close its arrears in this respect. The Court is required to settle these cases within one year of the entry into force of the Act. The point is that, indeed, citizens are waiting to be resolved, there is a considerable delay in these cases in the Court, and this is about mobilising the tribunal. On the other hand, in cases where the entities referred to in Article are concerned. Article 191 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, submitted applications to the Tribunal before the entry into force of the Act, and the case was not completed, the President of the Tribunal is obliged to suspend proceedings for 6 months from the date of entry into force of the Act and to call on these entities to supplement the applications according to the requirements of the Article. Article 32 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2. These are new requirements to clarify the existing rules for drafting procedural documents. The Act requires the President of the Tribunal to fulfil this obligation within 14 days of its entry into force. However, applicants have 6 months to complete the application. The imposition of this period of 14 days for the operation of the President is intended to give rise to the transmission of information to the applicant as soon as possible. If such a request is completed, the Tribunal shall take it into consideration. The deadline for completion shall be 6 months. Failure to complete the procedure results in the termination of the proceedings. The time limit shall start at the time of entry into force of this provision. The introduction of clearer and more precise requirements for the formal formulation of proposals to the Court is intended to facilitate the drafting of such pleadings by applicants, to harmonise these letters and thus facilitate the process of abstract control. The need to consider each time the interpretation of the controlled rules, the control patterns and the importance of the draft proposal for constitutional order will foster a deeper reflection on constitutional problems, improve the quality of the proposals and thus contribute to a fairer process before the Constitutional Tribunal. The proposed law also repeals the Act of 25 June 2015 on the Constitutional Court. The Act shall enter into force 14 days after the date of publication. I'm gonna be done right now. Vacatio legis is not long due to the fact that the resolution of the proposed law with minor exceptions is well known both to the Constitutional Court and to possible parties to the proceedings and to other entities which, in the light of the law, have certain powers, duties or powers vis-à-vis the Constitutional Tribunal. The rules in this shape have been the basis for the procession over the past almost 20 years. The draft also does not change the substance of the Constitutional Tribunal, moreover, the proposed numbering of the articles does not deviate from the designation and systematics of the Constitutional Tribunal Act 1997. This makes the time to adapt to the new legal situation does not have to be long. The drafter therefore considers that 14 days is a sufficient adjustment period for the entry into force of the new act. In comparison, it is worth recalling that when the Act of 25 June 2015 on the Constitutional Court entered into force, only 30-day vacathio legis was recorded, although it changed significantly the conduct of proceedings before that body. The Constitutional Court Act, like any law, uses the presumption of constitutionality, it is worth emphasising. It is therefore worth highlighting in the explanatory memorandum the support of the new project with regard to the problem of the potential examination of the law by the Constitutional Tribunal. Here, too, we have done everything to enable the Constitutional Tribunal to first examine this law in terms of its compatibility with the Constitution. The project's designer sought to avoid any decisions that, in the case of the current law of 25 June, following the December 2015 amendment, had raised so much controversy. This shows that we are flexible, meet the voices of criticism and certain expectations, because we believe that the compromise is also to take certain steps backwards. We expect the same from the opposition today. Although the Constitutional Tribunal Act is considered to be a specific act and is indicated in the catalogue of acts whose conformity with the Constitution is examined by the Constitutional Tribunal in full, the composition has been reduced in comparison with the solution to the December novel, I will stress it once again, and it counts at least 11 judges. The Constitutional Court Act may also be considered without requiring the Constitutional Tribunal to deal with cases in the order of influence, I will stress that once again. This law may benefit from a priority, it may be dealt with by the Constitutional Tribunal without order. On the other hand, the level relating to the finding that such a law does not comply with the Constitution was maintained, i.e. 2/3 of the votes of the Judges entering the formation. This is due, ladies and gentlemen, to the importance of the act and to the need for a strong legitimacy of this decision. And that's the last two sentences. [[Applause]] It's a draft bill... [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] ...will restore unity of conduct... I'm very happy that the project met with applause. [[Joy in the Chamber]] The draft law will restore the uniformity of proceedings before the Court, which has been affected by various legal regimes under the 2015 Act. This will be possible thanks to the new regulation of all proceedings. The return to the well-known 1997 legal solutions, which are well-established and have been successful in the functioning of the Constitutional Tribunal, will foster the social well-being of the new normative act and give a chance to restore order in proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal. Legislative action in this area may contribute to the reconstruction of the authority of the Constitutional Tribunal. The entry into force of the new Constitutional Tribunal Act will in principle not result in an additional burden on the State budget. The subject matter of the proposed law is not covered by European Union law. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for listening... [[Oh, come on.]] ...presentation oftheproceeded project. I look forward to a fruitful discussion, and I also look forward to reaching a consensus and a compromise, and I look forward to a constructive opposition. [[Then we'll ask you again.]] I also assume that we are, as I said at the outset, open and flexible, open to substantive criticism and... [[That's enough, sir.]] ...open when it comes to taking into account legitimate opposition proposals. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u266	Thank you, sir. I ask Mr Kosiniak-Kamysz to present the bill contained in print 569.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u267	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I hope the High House will forgive me for making my speech a little shorter, [[Applause]] because I am faithful to the principle of Wincent Witos: The phrases themselves, even the most flowery ones, can bring nothing or build anything, and today the compatriots... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] ...waiting for a tribunal from a political class, from parliamentarians less words and more deeds. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I would like to present a law which meets the expectations of different parties, both government and opposition parties, is a consensusal, compromise law, which can lead to a rapid resolution of the situation around the Constitutional Tribunal. For several months we have been dealing with a constitutional disorder, constitutional chaos, which weakens the position of Poland and its citizens, destroys both the inner peace and the image of Poland outside, restricts Poland's development opportunities by a loss of our reputation, opinions about us, by a decrease of positive interest in Poland, e.g. by foreign investors. It may also affect the Polish European funds that we receive from Brussels in a negative way. It could be a ricochet that hits, for example. in Polish farmers, entrepreneurs, Polish families. Therefore, today we need to seek compromise, we need to seek consensus, and such sulking or such desperate gestures are no real policy. This is a situation in which we must rise above our political interests, reach a consensual solution. And you can't just refer to the law. Of course, you have to base. in the basic law, the Constitution, but in this whole discussion we must find in the Constitution, in the preamble of the Constitution also these higher values, such as truth, justice, good and beauty. They're literally mentioned there. Today it is necessary to refer to them in order to create a law that will correct what has been wrong in recent months, what is in our opinion, in the opinion of many Poles, is bad for our position and in Europe, and in the world, but above all for our peace in Polish families, because today it is not just about disputes between politicians. We have been observing the division into two political camps for 10 years. This certainly does not serve Poland. But today there are more and more disputes in Polish families. We need to put an end to these disputes, adopt a compromise law. Dialogue is possible, and if dialogue is possible, dialogue is our duty and our duty - even so the Venice Commission says - cannot evade either the ruling party or the opposition. This responsibility is here in Poland. The European Commission can't do this for us because it can't do it for us. And she shouldn't have gotten her for us. Only we in the Polish Parliament can solve it. Of course, he could do it himself. [[He couldn't.]] ...and he wouldn't need anyone else to make bad laws. He can approach the good guys on his own, too. But it's obvious that there hasn't been such an intention so far. Therefore, the Polish People's Party takes into account all arguments raised in the debate. This is a project of one political formation, but there are arguments of different parties, different political backgrounds, respectful, once again I will stress this, both the ruling party and the opposition. This project is based on six steps. First of all, the publication of a judgment following a new law that comprehensively resolves the problem. I believe that only such a comprehensive solution, which concerns the issue of publication, personal issues of judges of the Tribunal, as well as the question of the future of the tribunal, contained in a single law, is acceptable. It's also, as I understand it, such an elegant way out for the ruling party. Thus, the publication of the judgment by the President of the Council of Ministers within 7 days of the entry into force of the new law, and then the 7 days after the publication of the judgment, the transfer of powers to publication for the future of the Constitutional Tribunal. It is independent of the situation that we are dealing with today, that there is not a published judgment, not only concerning the Constitutional Tribunal, but also concerning the various human affairs of our fellow countrymen, with which we meet on a daily basis. These judgments are already lacking in Polish legislation. There are two legal orders. On the one hand, we have judgments of the Constitutional Court, which, for example, on the basis of resolutions of local governments - probably today another local government adopted such a resolution, the local government in Krakow - are respected despite the lack of publication, and on the other hand we have non-compliance, because the government and the parliamentary majority do not see these judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal today. These two legal orders lead in a straight path to anarchy and must be protected from it. The next point in our bill is the selection of judges by a majority of 2/3 votes. It was in several laws: in the Kukiz Club Act15, as well as in the withdrawn Act of the Modern Club Act. It is worth looking for a majority, which is also in the act presented today, in the civic project. It is worth looking for a majority that makes the Constitutional Tribunal more independent of the ordinary parliamentary majority. But the number of judges we want to leave in the 15th dimension. Another aspect that is addressed in our law is the solutions to staff issues. They're extremely important because they're causing some kind of conflict today. Some recognize the choice of three judges, some six. Different numbers are dropping. It is necessary to ensure that six judges, three elected in the previous term, as well as those three elected in this term of office of the Sejm, can retire or voluntarily resign. This is such a common way forward that gives you an opportunity and one, and the other side to preserve your face. The next aspect we want to present in our bill is the future of the tribunal, the future of its functioning. It goes on for example. the processing and the possibility of bringing the so-called "in-case' in this case. appeal against the judgment by a resolution of the Sejm taken by a majority of 2/3 votes. We are aware that the judgments of the tribunal are final. But if there were circumstances about which, at the time of the decision, the tribunal had no knowledge, if any facts had been revealed which had a significant impact on the bill and the ruling in question, then the Sejm, by a majority of 2/3 of the votes, could have asked a second question, once again to investigate it because of the new circumstances. Let me give you one example. There is a ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal which speaks about the compatibility of the law with the Constitution, but as a result of the ongoing cases, as a result of e.g. We find out that corruption occurred during the process of prosecuting this law, and there has been a violation of the law. The Court had no knowledge of this at the time. Therefore, the Sejm could repeat the question, and the tribunal could give its opinion again. Finally, in order to avoid any doubt about the assignment of judges to cases, the choice of judges and any discretion of the President of the Tribunal, we propose that judges be assigned to cases in alphabetical order. That's right, ladies and gentlemen, in common courts. There is nothing to prevent us from applying such a solution to the new Constitutional Tribunal Act. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we need openness to all kinds of views, to the diversity that results in unity. And I would like to do this on behalf of my club, but I think that on behalf of many Poles in Poland, who are tired of discussing the Constitutional Tribunal over and over again many clichés, but lack of action... They are bored, but also at many moments terrified of how Poland is perceived internally and externally today. On their behalf, it is often necessary to devote our political interest and ambition today to compromise, and compromise is a bridge meeting, not on one of the banks of the river that divides both sides. These words are addressed to the PiS, but also, and perhaps above all, to the opposition: a wise compromise is worth more than 100 Pyrrus victories. We can afford his work, but it must, of course, be a real cooperation. Every day as the Polish People's Party we will say: I check those who have been given more and who are required more, i.e. The ruling side. Today, of course, after many situations that may have alienated us to such rapid and bad decisions, there is probably little confidence in many politicians or in some parties. Therefore, the moment at which we say: I am checking, there will be even a serious treatment of this law, but I would like the citizens' law to be taken seriously, the laws that have been withdrawn, the laws that are already being prosecuted. Ladies and gentlemen! I ask for a fair discussion in the name of this good, which is the highest good. These may be the upper-floor words sometimes, but we in this disdain, in this chaos in which we have been operating for several months, need such a strong way forward, we need a common way forward. I hope we can really work on these projects. That'll be the best piece of evidence. As for the desire of some, as for the good words. Will good deeds follow? That's what we're counting on working on this bill. I ask the High House to continue its work on the project of the Polish People's Party in committees. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u268	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the joint discussion on these items, it would hear ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and a five-minute statement on behalf of the Circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u269	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Parliamentary Club the position on the drafts of the three Constitutional Tribunal laws: civil project, print No 550, the parliamentary draft law on the Constitutional Tribunal, print No 558, and the parliamentary draft law amending the Constitutional Tribunal Act, print No 569. I will start by referring to a project presented by a group of citizens represented by the Legislative Initiative Committee of the Constitutional Tribunal Act. The project was submitted on the basis of Article. Article 118 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 the Constitution and the relevant provisions of the Law on the implementation of the legislative initiative by citizens. This proposal essentially restores the original wording of the law adopted by the PO-PSL Coalition on 25 June 2015. Given the scale of the controversy which was caused by the adoption of that law, this does not appear to contribute to the rapid conclusion of the dispute. However, the proposal also introduces a dozen amendments to the 2015 Act. Some of them respond to the criticism of the solutions of the current Court Act and respond, at least in direction, to the changes expected by the various parties to the dispute. Thus, according to the draft, the General Assembly of the Court would adopt a resolution not by a simple majority but by an absolute majority. The draft assumes the term of office of the President and Vice-President of the Tribunal, and that each member of the General Assembly may vote for only one candidate in the selection procedure. Interesting - although perhaps difficult to implement until the Constitution is amended - there is also a proposal for judges of the Tribunal to elect the Sejm by a majority of 2/3 of votes, as well as detailed rules on situations where this is not possible. There is an obligation to study in full the constitutionality and legality of important politically and socially important laws, in particular budgetary, tax, electoral laws governing the structure and jurisdiction of public authorities, as well as codes. Such regulations are indeed in line with the expectations expressed by more than one of the parties present in the discussions on the model of functioning of the Constitutional Tribunal. Therefore, according to the projectors' declarations, they can be defined as compromises and therefore worthy of consideration and further work. I will now refer to the draft Constitutional Court Act submitted by the group of Members of the Law and Justice. This is a project that can be described as a salomone project. [[Ha!]] It crosses most of the disputes concerning the solutions contained in the Act of 25 June 2015. In view of the deep political divisions that led to the adoption of this law, the adoption of the proposal would contribute to the completion of a significant part of the existing controversy. This is due to the fact that the project essentially restores the provisions of the earlier Constitutional Tribunal Act of 1 August 1997, which was in force between 1997 and 2015. The project is based on a law well known to the authorities of the State, including the Constitutional Court, as it was based on a ruling by the summer of 2015. In other words, the regulations which, first, constitutionality was not challenged by any significant political or social group and which, in any case, compared to the controversy that the 2015 Act is creating, although not always satisfactory, have been in practice for almost two decades. As I mentioned, although the proposal essentially restores the provisions of the earlier Constitutional Tribunal Act, it contains derogations from the provisions in force at the time. I will not discuss them in detail, because it has already been done by the applicant Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz. [[No. Please do it again, go ahead.]] In part, they stem from our belief that the Court's work must be improved, and partly from taking into account the case law of the Court. They strengthen the legitimacy and transparency of the Constitutional Tribunal's activities. It is worth signaling now that some of them are going in the same direction as the proposals for regulation from the other two projects that we are currently debating. The proposed bill does not require a revision of the Constitution, does not resolve all the issues that are currently under discussion, but offers an opportunity to stabilise the situation and reduce the temperature of political dispute. The most recent of these proposals is the draft of a group of Members of the Polish People's Party, which assumes an amendment of the current law on the Constitutional Court. According to the intentions of the projectors, it is consensual and is intended to meet the expectations of all political groups. We estimate that these are interesting proposals, although sometimes against the intentions of designers they may require a change of constitution. The draft provides for the selection of judges of the Tribunal by a majority of 2/3 of the votes, which would depoliticise their choice. An interesting proposal, perhaps at least in part feasible, is that judges, whose validity of the choice exists, be put to rest. It goes beyond the current discussions, but it is worth considering a solution so that the Sejm can ask the tribunal to re-examine the case when new circumstances arise. The proposal that judges should be assigned to cases in alphabetical order, in accordance with the order of influence of the cases, is opposed to the often formulated expectations. In conclusion, it is good that there is agreement beyond one political environment regarding the need to amend the rules governing the functioning of the Constitutional Tribunal. There is also agreement that such changes must comply with the existing constitution, be based on social dialogue and be of a compromise nature. We see the constructive value of not only our own project, but also some of the solutions proposed in the other two projects. In matters that arouse so much political emotion and wake them up for so long, a destructive approach seems - everything or nothing. We therefore believe that based on the solutions contained in the proposed projects, optimal, compromise regulation needs to be developed. By acting on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, I declare that the club will support further work on all three projects.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u270	Thank you very much, sir. [[There was no applause.]] I invite Mr Grzegorz Schetyn, the Civic Platform Club. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u271	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We're in the middle of a debate. This is an important debate, but its context is so strange. We are all fans, especially from tomorrow when the European Championship starts. It turned out that President Jarosław Kaczyński is also a fan. He's not just rooting for... [[Voice from the room: But rodeo.]] ...and not only is he interested in rodeo, but also in football, as he said. I want to tell him here today - he said in an interview that we have to play hard - we will not be played in the Constitutional Tribunal case, Mr President. I'm very clear on that. [[Applause]] I'm saying this because what's going on around the Constitutional Court is one big foul, a foul on the part of the PiS. You've been doing this for months. In fact, you've been fouling in such a measurable way for 92 days when you don't print, you don't publish judgments of the Constitutional Court because you care about your party interests. Anyway, you're pretty clear on that. You don't listen to the Supreme Court, you don't take into account the opinion of the Supreme Bar Council, the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights, you don't listen to the Venice Commission or the European Commission, you don't care. You foul not only judges, the president, the law, but you foul Poles. And that's what the Poles see. We want to make it very clear that, in fact, during this debate today, as in the pill, you have shown what your true intentions are. Because first of all, these people, these Poles, whom the CODE invites to parties, to demonstrations, you challenge communists and thieves, then you call them, us, the second sort, and today you hide yourself from the civic project. Today, prosecutor Piotrowicz, prosecutor Piotrowicz, spoke about how important it is for the citizens' project to be conducted first. That's your whole lie, all your fake, all your foul. [[Applause]] And today you're brazenly using it. And I want to tell my friends in CODE that this is this big political scam, this big scam of yours. You're not interested in any other project. You want to do your project in a rude way. There won't be any discussion, it's all fake. And the symbol of this is unthinkable... or the little smart smile of D.A. Peterowicz... [[Voice from the hall: Mr Peterowicz.]] ...procurator Peterowicz, who really took us all 1 hour 50 minutes so we could not hold a debate. This is your scam, this is the real PiS. [[Applause]] And what I'm trying to say is that there were a lot of promises here, and you've shown a lot of how open this project is. Absolutely not. He's untrue, he's false, he's shutting down, he's taking away the independence of the Constitutional Court, and that's all you want. It is as it was a few months ago here, from this speaker Prime Minister Szydło made promises and talked about a white-red team. You can't build a team like this because your team plays PiS outfits, not in white and red, [[Applause]] Because all that matters to you is your political party business, and you need to hear about it, and you need to know it. That's why stop fouling up. Sports, like politics, should rely on it to be fair. Don't foul, play fair. [[Applause]] [[Let's give it a big round of applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u272	I invite Mr Boris Budka, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u273	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This project is not a compromise. It is a project that is only supposed to delay in time what President Jarosław Kaczyński dreams about, i.e. dreaming of getting rid of President Rzepliński, who has repeatedly stood on the guard of the independence of Polish courts and independence of Polish judges. [[Applause]] In fact, this project you are proposing contains a number of solutions that the Constitutional Tribunal has already found to be incompatible with the Constitution. You want to block the Constitutional Tribunal by queuing cases only so that all these non-constitutional acts that you are carrying out through this Parliament cannot be audited. You've demolished the civilian service, you've demolished the agricultural system, you've demolished the Polish Police, you're going after a bill that aims at even greater citizen surveillance, you're doing everything you can to bring in a total state. And your project goes in that direction so that the Constitutional Tribunal cannot examine the constitutionality of the laws adopted at the moment. Why? For a simple reason. You can block the Constitutional Tribunal by making 100 historical proposals only so that the tribunal in this term of office does not deal with the law that you break every day. [[Exactly.]] The worst thing about it is that you change the word, the meaning of which President Jarosław Kaczyński does not know, the words: compromise. You are not proposing any compromise. If that were the case, your officers, President Andrzej Duda and Prime Minister Beata Szydło would not be in a state of permanent violation of the Constitution. The President would have to invite and swear three judges, and the Prime Minister, in a constitutional manner, would have led to a dozen sentences which are currently awaiting an announcement, and are final and inviolable. [[Voice from the hall: And they are not judgments.]] You're really trying to tell the public that you want some kind of compromise. It's not like that. This bill doesn't solve any major problem that you've created. If you had sincere intentions, under the cover of the night, you would not have illegally elected the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, under the cover of the night President Andrzej Duda would not have invited the judges to make a promise in breach of the seriousness and dignity of the Constitutional Tribunal. [[Applause]] [[Who picked it in October?]] If you had pure intentions, you would be waiting for the tribunal to review your own motion. In the meantime, your hypocrisy has reached its zenith - you have filed a motion that you later withdrew from the tribunal. It is not true that the June Act of last year needs to be repaired. Repairs need law and justice. Repair needs Jarosław Kaczyński. [[Applause]] [[He can't be fixed.]] Repairs need your thinking of the state as a loot, a state as a permanent war against the opposition. [[Applause]] You're being insulted every step of the way. And Jarosław Kaczyński expressed the quintessence of his thinking about Poland in one sentence: If we went back, it would be surrender. If someone looks at his own country as a battlefield, he doesn't deserve to pretend to be a patriot. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u274	I invite Mr Krzysztof Breja.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u275	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! According to Art. 173 of the Constitution courts and tribunals are separate from the others. It's a rule that's bothering you so much. You, the politicians of Law and Justice. But out of these three authorities, only the judiciary in the Constitution is so particularly protected from the temptations of politicians. Why is this distinctness so protected? I will also quote to you the sentence of another legal act: The judicial authority cannot be exercised either by the legislative authority or by the king. It's nothing but art. 8th Constitution 3 May. Attacking a separate judicial authority by you is an attack on the Polish tradition, which was violated only during wars, partitions, the tradition of the three divisions of the authorities which were despised in the People's Poland, where instead of the three divisions of the authorities we had the power of one party, as you would like it to be today. [[Applause]] The bill you're proposing is another batch of venom, a poison to paralyze the Constitutional Tribunal. You've been wanting to do this twice in the last six months, but you're telling stories about repairing the platform's supposed mistakes. The truth is different because you prepared this poison in 2007. You put together an identical draft on queuing cases at the Constitutional Court to block this Constitutional Tribunal. The only reason you didn't succeed was because this bill hadn't been dealt with by the Sejm because the term of office had been shortened because of the land scandal. The documents were preserved, there was a positive opinion about this queuing of the Vice Minister of Justice, then Minister Andrzej Duda. Your arguments were crushed by the representatives of the Venice Commission, which you invited to Poland. They said that queuing cases was wrong, and deciding by a majority of 2/3, which is what you are proposing today to D.A. Piotrowicz... [[Voice from the Chamber: Mr Piotrowicz.]] ...is a violation of the rule of law. Why did you invite the Venice Commission? For what purpose? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Finally, the rule of law, Art. 7 constitutions, the basis of a democratic rule of law. The authorities of the state operate within the limits and on the basis of the law - this is the canon of Western European civilization. Mr. District Attorney... You're not here. [[Voice from the Chamber: Mr President, Mr President.]] Give me one provision that gives Prime Minister Beata Szydło the right to give an opinion, which is a judgment of the Court and what is not, a provision that gives the right to block the publication of a judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. [[Time, time's up.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u276	Madame, I ask you to remain calm. Mr President, finish up.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u277	If you want to fix anything, repair the printer in the Chancellery of the Prime Minister and publish the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u278	Thank you. Mr Tomasz Romankowski, Kukiz, 15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u279	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I'm gonna start off with a little bit of optimism. The draft laws submitted: the draft Law and Justice, the citizens' draft law, as well as the draft of the Polish People's Party, unfortunately do not end this dispute about the Constitutional Tribunal. As far as the matter of these laws is concerned, we have listened to very long times of the representatives of the applicants. Some of the proposals contained in all draft laws are noteworthy and we will certainly be in favour of further discussion, because we are interested in ending the dispute around the Constitutional Tribunal. Especially noteworthy is the proposal of the Polish People's Party due to the great convergence with our proposals, with the difference in form. Our proposal meant a minor amendment to the Constitution, which ends the dispute around the Constitutional Tribunal. The proposal of the Polish People's Party is at the statutory level. Therefore, our doubts as to whether a very good proposal to introduce a majority of 2/3 votes would be in line with the Constitution. It is also the issue of the transition of the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal to retirement. But it is worth talking about and we thank you very much that this proposal is in line with our proposal. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! The fundamental problem since autumn last year, since the beginning of the 8th term of the Sejm, has been the issue of inflation of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. At the moment, we have selected 18 judges, 15 sworn judges, and 12 judges. Until we eliminate this fundamental problem, this systemic disease that we have in the Polish country at the moment, giving any changes to the Constitutional Court Act is like administering a painkiller to acute poisoning of the organism. We need to amend the Constitution, we need to expand the membership of the Constitutional Tribunal. Until we do, any amendments to the Constitutional Court Act will not solve the problem we have right now. The problem is that the tribunal doesn't work. The dispute we have right now is a personal dispute. We have 15 sworn judges, 18 elected. Let's expand and this problem will go away. Our proposal, which we made as early as December last year, was one of the first proposals to end the dispute around the tribunal, provided, in addition to extending the composition from 15 to 18 judges of the Tribunal, that the three judges elected by the Sejm of the previous term of office, who had no legal defect, would sit at the Constitutional Court. Then the problem that we have right now is that we don't have. The second element is the question of trying to depolise the Constitutional Tribunal. It is scandalous and unacceptable to stigmatise the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. We at the tribunal's judges say he's with the Platform, he's with the PiS, he's with the PSL, he's with the SLD. These are judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, these are judges of the Constitutional Tribunal of all Poles. Therefore, our proposal to increase the number of votes - to introduce a qualified majority in the selection of judges of the tribunal - from an absolute majority to a 2/3 majority. And when the High House is unable to make this choice within the prescribed time limit, let us introduce a safeguard mechanism in the Constitution along with this standard, so that it is, for example. The National Judicial Council - I say: for example, we can discuss this - as is the case in the case of the general court, this choice has been made. But we are also open to other proposals. It is worth talking to end the dispute around the tribunal. Another element is the issue of the Supreme Court's cognition. We want the Supreme Court to decide on its compatibility, not the Constitutional Tribunal, in this one exceptional case, so that Polish citizens have no doubts as to the bias or impartiality of the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. Ladies and gentlemen, referring to the current political situation, I will say that demanding the President of the Republic of Poland at this moment to take a vow from three judges elected by the Sejm of the previous term of office and not sworn in when there are 15 sworn judges, that is to call the President to break the constitution. [[Voice from the room: He's already broken.]] That is why we must extend the composition to 18 judges, and then the President will be obliged to take a vow from these three elected by the Sejm of the previous term. For this, political agreement is needed and without this political agreement we will not end this dispute. On the other hand, as regards the second point, which is sometimes referred to as a border condition, which is essential for the opening of talks, for the conclusion of the dispute around the Tribunal, namely the publication of judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal, starting from that first judgment, which is 9 March this year, the ladies and gentlemen of the State, are in force, and there is no doubt about it, but it must be made clear that the judgment of 9 March was delivered contrary to the Constitution. Art. 197 of the Constitution clearly states that the procedure for the proceedings and proceedings of the Tribunal is governed by the law. The Constitutional Tribunal has not applied the Article. 197, but the legislator did not provide for the possibility of formal verification of the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal. They are final and enter into force at the time of the announcement. But the lack of an announcement... And here I'm putting down all the rumors that it's some kind of printer that's printing. For several years the Official Journals and the Polish Monitor have not been printed in paper form, they are in electronic form. This has no significance, ladies and gentlemen, for the validity of the judgments of the tribunal. And you can't make that condition a shoreline to start conversations. Ladies and gentlemen, Poles, our countrymen are tired of fighting around the Constitutional Court. The lack of support for the examination of projects, such as a civil project, shows in part that you do not want to end this dispute around the Constitutional Tribunal. The political, social environment - however it may be said about the Committee for the Defence of Democracy - has submitted a proposal and the state of this project did not want to consider it. This is a sign of lack of goodwill, which causes my surprise, because the state at every step of the way emphasizes the need to end this dispute as soon as possible, and unfortunately there are no impulses to do so. No serious approach. Ladies and gentlemen, many times I have personally participated in the discussions myself, many representatives of political circles who are in the Polish Parliament, are frivolous about the dispute around the Constitutional Tribunal. Everyone sees it as a personal dispute. The fundamental problem is the issue of three judges elected by the Sejm of the previous term of office who have not taken the oath. As long as we don't expand this squad, this argument will continue. And that's what you have to say, because it doesn't come to you or you. You just don't want to see this problem. You want to escalate it and this show around the tribunal will last for centuries, either for the rest of this term or for longer. The worst result of some political environments, please, is to feed on this crisis - to report on Poland to international bodies, to go after representatives of foreign countries, international organisations, to escalate this conflict, rather than to sit down and give a substantive thought to how to resolve this dispute. The bill, whatever it may be, even the best, all the members of the High House can agree to it, will not end this dispute. We can only put an end to the dispute by updating the constitution. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of this reflection concerning the Constitutional Tribunal. There were slogans here from the representatives of the citizens' project that nationalists could take over. It is worth noting and reminding that during the 20th interwar period, during the period of the Second Polish Republic, the fundamental postulate of National Democracy was the creation of a Constitutional Tribunal. It was Prof. Wacław Komarnicki who was the main advocate for the March Constitution to include this body, which would be on the watch for the observance of the Constitution. And the state, without wishing to make a new constitution in these minor regulations, e.g. concerning the extension of the composition from 15 to 18 judges or the introduction of a qualified majority of 2/3 votes, you stand on the same side as a detention camp which does not respect the law. We want the Constitutional Tribunal to act, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And dragging it out in time isn't gonna help. [[Applause]] Finally, Mr. Marshal, I will say that our club will vote in favour of moving to the next readings of all three projects submitted in the matter of the Constitutional Tribunal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u280	Thank you very much. Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u281	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In this room of the PiS conflict with the Constitutional Tribunal, it is impossible to conclude because we will not take a vow from three properly elected judges of the Court, nor will we publish the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 9 March. Poland today has a problem with the aggressive policy of PiS towards the tribunal, not with the tribunal. No law will end the PiS attack on the Constitutional Tribunal and on the rule of law. For this, it is necessary that the Prime Minister's judgment be published and that the President's oath be taken. [[Applause]] I understand that PiS wants to play willing to compromise. We all know these are appearances. And so out of all these conversations will come the PiS bill with all its unconstitutional records. Modern will not participate in this political simulation and that is why we have withdrawn our bill from the agenda. High Izbo! PiS politicians are calling for a calming mood, but this Law of PiS is simply another salvo towards the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. A number of its solutions are not only contrary to the judgment of the Court of 9 March 2016, but also evidence that the recommendations of the Venice Commission have been ignored. For example, you are trying to smuggle a harmful regulation regarding the handling of applications in order of impact. What is more, whether the order of influence could be ignored, according to the project, only President Andrzej Duda could decide. Not in accordance with Article. 173 in conjunction with Article. 10 and Article 10 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 1). Paragraph 194. 2 of the Constitution is, in turn, an article. 15 projects, which states that the President will have the right not to actually appoint, but to elect the President of the Constitutional Tribunal from among all the candidates submitted, the number of which is actually unlimited, can be 15 out of 15 judges. Let us recall that it was the violation of the Constitution by Andrzej Duda, who stubbornly refused to take a vow from the three properly elected judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, that was the first hostile behaviour of PiS politicians towards the Tribunal. Are you talking about a change in the Constitutional Court or his total paralysis using President Andrzej Duda? Why do you propose that the tribunal's paralyzed work be adjourned in the absence of the Attorney General? Zbigniew Ziobro, since he became the Attorney General, did not appear at the meetings of the Constitutional Tribunal, neither he nor his representative. This poses a potential risk of persistent dismissal due to the absence of the Attorney General or his representative, and moreover in cases that are dealt with in full, i.e. those that you consider to be so important to citizens. The decision by qualified majority 2/3 is a solution contrary to the literal wording of the Constitution, which was declared unconstitutional in its judgment of 9 March 2016. There is also no dispute among experts. After all, judges must be given the opportunity to give a ruling. If they do not reach agreement by qualified majority 2/3, then what? Will the citizen be deprived of his right to judgment? I am no longer talking about the deep Middle Ages of the transitional provisions, which turn upside down the principle of non-action of the law backwards, i.e. the non-application of the provisions of the new law to the facts that arose under other laws. High Izbo! Dear Members and Members of the PSL! The draft amendment of the June TK Act by Members of the PIS also unfortunately contains a number of bad, questionable constitutional solutions. In point 1, you propose that the majority of the TK judges be changed from a normal 2/3 to a qualified 2/3 - this is a good solution - but unfortunately no safeguard mechanism is introduced. And it's very dangerous. However, the proposal set out in point 2 of Article raises greater concern. 1, which assumes that all the judges of the tribunal are at rest. Ladies and gentlemen, this regulation is simply contrary to the principle of independence and indiscretion of judges, with the principle of three divisions of power. It cannot be that the ordinary legislative act of the statutory rank is removed by independent judges. It is unacceptable for the legislative authority to dispose of irreplaceable constitutional judges. High Izbo! Today, the Sejm also has a citizens' project tabled by the Committee for the Defence of Democracy, and contrary to the Committee's intentions, this good law is being used for the wrong purpose. Over 100,000. Poles signed a law that was supposed to strengthen the rule of law, and today, PiS is simply using it to create a smoke screen to mask the attacks of the ruling party on the tribunal. It's indecent, it's unfair. High Izbo! None of today's problems are really about the functioning of the tribunal. The current constitutional problems that our country is facing are about the attitude of executive authority. The problem is that the President does not take a vow from three properly elected judges, the problem is that the Prime Minister does not publish the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. Therefore, the Modern Club will today vote against the Law both PiS and PSL. I appeal to the PiS politicians: Publish the judgment of the Constitutional Court, take a vow from three properly elected judges. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u282	Mrs Barbara Dolniak, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u283	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Constitutional Tribunal is designed to protect citizens from abuse of power and the hasty adoption of harmful laws. You can't pass whatever you like because you have the majority in the Seym. You didn't get a mandate to violate the law in the name of power. Most in the Seym don't mean you're above the law. A step backwards in discussions about lawmaking is an expression of reason and listening to others in discussions, not a manifestation of surrender. It's not a war or a revolution to bring the subject to such an assessment of the situation. Here in the Seym, we are to create a good law serving us, our citizens, and for such purposes we have been chosen. Good law is not created in the atmosphere of words about surrender. Creating law is one thing, and obeying it is another. You don't compromise with the law. The law is obeyed. Compliance with the law is respect for judgments, acceptance of vows from judges. It's the Seym, not the President, he has a choice. The right to give a sense of justice and stability must also give a sense of security and certainty. The ad hoc law, created for a moment, on the knee, doesn't provide that, it creates only legal chaos. The awareness of the creation of the law, which will soon be declared unconstitutional, undermines in general the value of the law and the sense of its creation. Introducing non-constitutional rules only because they are ours is creating harmful and evil laws. If you think that bad rules can be applied, you are wrong, and practice quickly shows how wrong rules harm our citizens. According to Art. 45 Constitutions each have the right to a fair hearing without undue delay. The proposal that judgments be given by a majority of two-thirds of the votes will lead to the deprivation of citizens' right to judgment, which is a clear violation of the fundamental principle of a democratic rule of law. When we bring the case, we have the right to settle it. According to Art. The 10 constitutions of the system are based on a threefold division of power. Giving the President or the Attorney General the right to apply for a change of formation is a clear violation of the three divisions. There are no provisions in the proposal that would allow the refusal to take a decision on the proposal. This means the form of a command - so it is enough to submit a request. On the other hand, cases have been envisaged where the trial cannot take place without the participation of the Attorney General. What if he doesn't come on purpose? Another issue is to deal with cases according to the order of influence. We must remember that there may be extremely important matters that, due to their nature, cannot wait. I know that the Members of the Law and Justice are about to shout that there is a gate, but the key to this gate has only the current majority. It can be seen, for example, from the actions of the tribunal. It is unthinkable that an independent judge should be removed just like that, by decision of the Sejm, because it undermines the constitutional principle of the independence of the courts and independence of the judges. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 180 of the Constitution we have an explicit principle about the inability of judges, and in accordance with the Article. 194 are appointed for a ten-year term which must not be shortened. So, if we don't like the judge, can we delete him, shorten his term of office? For this is disciplinary action, which gives the possibility to remove the judge from office when he fails to perform his duties, not because we do not like him. We can't question the finality of judgments, because it's the Constitution. Therefore, granting the Sejm the power to request a review of the case is a challenge to a clear and precise provision of the Constitution. Otherwise, the majority of the Seym, so political, would decide what is final and what is not. By taking a vow or refusing to accept it, the President may not decide to elect a judge. The adoption of a provision that vows are an indication of choice is a gateway transferring power from the Sejm to the President. It's not like you're amending the Constitution in this respect, is it? [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[What project are you talking about?]] Law and Justice creates appearances of dialogue and discussion in the Sejm, fully aware that it is pure propaganda. The truth is, the Law and Justice are not going to discuss the Court with anyone.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u284	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u285	You are not interested in the opinion of the European Commission.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u286	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u287	Two more sentences.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u288	No, my fellow Member. As a marshal, you're always very meticulous and stick to it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u289	Then I'll finish my last sentence. In promoting populism, you are unrivalled... [[Vice Marshal disables microphone, applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the courtroom: Marshal, you've got the wrong project!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u290	Thank you very much. Equal rules, Marshal. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u291	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party our position on the draft laws on the Constitutional Tribunal contained in prints No 550, 558 and 569. But I will start with some reflection, ladies and gentlemen. What do we get from the best ideas, the best recipes and scenarios to solve the problem if it can't be solved for six months? We will all agree without exception that the constitutional crisis does not serve Poland. It's got to end. The situation's gonna get hot and it's heading in a dangerous direction. There's no room for political rhetoric here anymore. A consensus must be sought in this situation. However not to curse reality, any narratives do not use, how many good mines do not show, we bear and we will bear the severe costs of escalating the conflict around the Constitutional Court. One side will talk about complaints to the European institutions, the other side will call on the European institutions not to interfere with the internal order of the country. But what's the big deal? In continuing to maintain this situation, we are threatened not only by the threat of public anarchy and social unrest, but also by the fear of legal duality and more of the chaos that will arise from it. It is also about the political and financial consequences within the European Union and the world, as we fear. Finally, Poland's weak voice in defence matters is weaker security. How are we supposed to look serious in front of North Atlantic Alliance partners when they don't work? The Constitutional Tribunal, there's no constitutional court, and we're on the eve of the NATO summit? The paralyzed Constitutional Tribunal is also a lack of access for citizens to legal protection, which needs to be stressed, and it is required, because it is not only provided by the state institutions appointed to it. In respectable democracy, a functioning constitutional court is needed in a respectable European cultural circle. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, this is also a dangerously far-reaching division of Poles and Poles, hopefully not irreversible. We can all see that the division that started in this House is moving to local communities, to many jobs and finally to Polish families. It's time to really end this. All this, according to the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, must prompt us to find an immediate solution based on compromise. We already know our positions, opinions on the various parties' proposals. There are common denominators that can lead to an agreement. The Polish People's Party, presenting its consensual, compromise project, is counting on this agreement. Today we are talking about the Law and Justice, the Civic Platform, the Kukiz Club15, Modern - I am checking every step of the way and at every stage of the work on the projects presented today. The Polish People's Party Act solves issues of the past, present and future. And that is the only way to resolve this conflict in our opinion. This is the beginning of the road and the beginning of the test for credibility and sincerity of intentions as to who wants to end the dispute and who wants to continue using it for their often political, purely political purposes. [[Applause]] And this is probably also a test for the political maturity of Polish 27-year-old democracy and all of us in this House. The Polish People's Party is the oldest and richest political party in Poland, acting in the belief that the welfare of citizens and the strength of the Polish state should be built on the basis of joint actions, compromise and agreement. And that reflects the proposal we're making for the consensus bill. The aim of this project is to create a permanent basis for the smooth and beneficial functioning of the state for citizens by building a new, stable political compromise ending the crisis around the Constitutional Tribunal and restoring the image of Poland. Our project was created from inspiration and for Poles, who very numerously submit to the Polish People's Party, worried about the prolonged sharp political dispute. In a consistent assessment of these people there is no time for such conflicts. Poland really faces huge security challenges, providing the basis for family life, education, geopolitical changes that are taking place in front of us. Therefore, in the care of the most important values close to the hearts of each Polish woman and every Pole, such as family, work, security, the Polish People's Party submitted a consensus project and began consultations on it, as the only political environment giving evidence that current animosities, current injuries and current differences can be put aside. They are between us, but they should not dominate the key things concerning the Polish system. In the draft, we propose that the power to administer a ruling be delegated to the Constitutional Court itself, with the introduction of a provision whereby the decisions which have not been published so far are subject to an old notice, i.e. by the President of the Council of Ministers within 7 days. We propose that the number of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal of 15. This is the principle introduced by the Constitution and should not be changed. The judges of the Tribunal, according to our project, should be elected by a majority of at least 2/3 of the votes in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. We are inclined to support the Kukiz Club's demands15. We are opposed to entering this into the Constitution, because it would be a very dangerous precedent, leading to the future of any conflict that arises, to resolve by amending the Constitution. What could that lead to? Plus, in the next few months, every time we change the constitution. This really is a bad thing in perspective. Another proposal concerns the personal aspect of the dispute. So we suggest that more than six judges at rest. Mrs Gasiuk-Pihowicz alleged that this was an unconstitutional proposal. Only the question arises: Have these six judges fully started their work? Isn't there a flaw in setting up all six? There's this kind of reservation here. Another proposal - to entrust the instrument to the Sejm in the form of a request for review of the law after the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. There are also opinions on the non-constitutionality of this solution, but, ladies and gentlemen, it is a matter of new circumstances which would arise in connection with the decisions of the Constitutional Court, so it would not affect the seriousness of the judgment as regards the judgments of the Constitutional Court, and therefore it is not a valid allegation of non-constitutionality, an allegation of breach of the constitution's provision concerning the indisputability of decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal. In our opinion, the proposal of the Polish People's Party resolves the conflict by amending the Constitutional Tribunal Act on the basis of a broad political agreement, taking into account the demands of all parties. This is a zero option that solves the problem immediately. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! If we don't start a conversation, we can't solve this dispute. But it can't be a monologue, which we're keeping from. This must be an authentic dialogue. When dialogue dies, there's a misunderstanding. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I would like to assure you that the club is in favour of directing all three projects to further seymous work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u292	Thank you. Mr Jan Klaviter, not associated, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u293	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The right of the Republic is strongly in favour of restoring the authority and position of the Constitutional Court and against interference from abroad in Poland's affairs. Unlike the main participants in this constitutional crisis, we are not responsible for or responsible for the outbreak of this crisis, when a parliamentary majority led by the PO a year ago committed a drastic violation of power, or for its escalation since December, during the last six months. We already proposed in November Ub. A compromise way out of the crisis. First of all, liberal opposition is responsible for rejecting these opportunities. We also did not support the revision of the Court's rules which radically hinder its decision-making. Art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance Decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal shall be delivered by a majority of votes. If the Constitution wants to limit the possibility for public authorities to take decisions, it introduces a qualified majority and does so clearly. The introduction of a qualified majority contrary to the Constitution clearly violates it. This will make it difficult for the Constitutional Court to reject international agreements incompatible with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. Today the liberal opposition continues to support illegal interference in Poland's affairs. On the other hand, it is also irresponsible to reduce the constitutional protection of the sovereignty of the Republic of Poland. Ladies and gentlemen! Remember the democratic pendulum. In this situation, I reiterate my appeal to the President of the Republic of Poland to take concrete action in agreement with political parties and with the Polish public. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u294	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If any of your fellow Members would like to speak again, I would like to invite you. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - 1.5 minutes. Mrs Krystyna Pavłowicz, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u295	How long is it? Half a minute? [[Voice from the room: One and a half.]] Mr. Marshal! The draft CODE of the Constitutional Tribunal Act is only a slightly modified first, extreme version of the project, which was written for themselves by the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, and brought this project to the Sejm by President Komorowski in 2014. The project repeats all the main disadvantages of this project, e.g. such that the scope of the jurisdiction of the tribunal is defined maybe, according to the constitution, only the constitution. Competence for the tribunal. On the other hand, the project provides that these competences can also be added in the form of a law. This is constitutionally unacceptable. Other CODE proposals are difficult today against the total, blocking opposition to acceptance, e.g. The choice of judge 2/3... Yeah. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Other CODE proposals are difficult today to accept against the total, blocking opposition, e.g. the choice of judge 2/3 of votes. [[Joy in the Chamber]] And, for example, If 307... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] But you understand. Yeah. [[Christopher, you have great power.]] A minimum of 307 votes in full presence is virtually impossible to achieve. In turn, the project PSL also contains proposals contrary to the constitution, which says that the term of the judge lasts 9 years and cannot therefore be passed on by force, top-down, by law to the resting state of the judge or judges elected by the Law and Justice, because they are judges according to the Constitution of 9 years. You can't do that to selected people by PO-PSL, because they've never been judges. [[♪ The bell ♪]] People who aren't judges can't be moved to a resting state. [[Voice from the room: Time!]] I would also like to say at the end that the total hysterical opposition has no doubts, uneducated lawyers, that only constitutional solutions will be possible in the new act on the Court. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u296	Thank you, Member. Mr Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u297	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Constitution of the Republic of Poland speaks about the division and balance of the authorities. However, the PiS project does not respect this division and balance of the authorities, because it gives excessive power to the President over the tribunal, it makes the tribunal something like such an adjutant council at the President. Well, the president can change the order of the case. The President may demand - and this must be done - the appointment of a full court. The President shall elect the President, the Vice-President of the Tribunal, not of two, but of three candidates, each of which may cast only one vote at the General Assembly, i.e. that candidates who have obtained two or three votes for the President or two or three votes for the Vice-President may also become President and Vice-President of the Tribunal. The President may suspend disciplinary removal from the Court of Justice in two instances in the Court, including the second instance in full court ruling such disciplinary punishment for the judge. The President can finally be a party to any case, including those that he didn't bring in at all, because all he has to do is ask him to consider the case as particularly complicated in his opinion. Finally, the president, which is not written directly, but such a country you have accepted the practice, may not take a vow from properly elected judges. In total, it is a complete confusion and submission to the court of executive authority. I would also like to say that the provision for 2/3 of the votes in the ruling is anti-constitutional, [[♪ The bell ♪]] does not respect the recommendations of the Venice Commission, nor does it respect the fact that in most cases these articles were referred to, which provide for the exclusion of the ordinary majority, the application of the qualified majority. So it's also just pretending that you're making a difference. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u298	Thank you, sir. Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u299	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for Mr Jarosław Marciniak, because now there is a 14-day deadline between the notice of the hearing and the hearing, and you propose a period of 3 and 6 months respectively from the notification to the hearing. Why is such an idea of deadlines, and what are the reasons for them? More questions. There was 10% in your statement. Merythortics and 90% politics. I understand that the election campaign has started, that you are already part of the political force, and this is not really about democracy, but about politics. I have these questions. Where was the CODE when the record of 2 million illegal wirets was beaten? Where was the CODE when there were legal demonstrations? Where was the CODE when the editors came in and the law was broken? Where was the CODE when civil rights were violated? [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal...]] Mr. Kievsky... Where was Mr. Kievski at that time? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u300	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Truskolasna, Moderna, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u301	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Order of Law and Justice for the Constitutional Tribunal can only end the publication of judgments and the acceptance of the oath from constitutionally elected judges. Venice Commission, European Commission. What's next? Who else is gonna take care of our country so you can come to your senses? What keeps you in this wild rush for eternal dominion? Do you really think that the Poles will believe that you want to resolve this dispute over the tribunal? If you wanted to do this, you wouldn't be making your bill proposal, you would just let us work on a civil project alone. You've brought hundreds of thousands of people into the streets. The question is, what do you want to do next? You say you've been chosen by a sovereign, but I think this sovereign is the president and that no one else, but he thinks you matter. And the people who trusted you and voted you, you just cheated. You're not really interested in them. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u302	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u303	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask the authors of the project contained in the sejm print No.558, i.e. the club Law and Justice. In your draft, you propose that the termination of the mandate of a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal should he be sentenced by a final disciplinary decision to the sentence of removal from office be subject to the prior consent of the President. Many experts point out that the rule grants the head of state unknown to modern democratic systems the role of a specific super-arbitr in judicial disciplinary proceedings. I would like to ask what was at the root of this far-reaching competence conferred on the President. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u304	Thank you. Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u305	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the applicant's representative regarding the citizens' project, Mr Jarosław Marciniak. You raised the problem of taking your President's oath. I would like to stress that there are resolutions of the Sejm. Namely, the resolution of 24 November excludes from legal turnover the resolution on the election of 8 October. And these proposals made to the President are proposals that only lead to a constitutional delicacy as far as the President is concerned if the President wishes to take a vow from those three non-judges who were elected on 8 October 2015. And so I have a question for you: Do you have any other suggestions for healing this situation in the civil project? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u306	Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u307	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 24 December 2015, the Foreign Minister's spokesperson posted such an entry on the Ministry's website: In connection with the work on the Constitutional Tribunal Act, Minister Witold Waszczykowski asked the advisory body of the Council of Europe, which is the European Commission for Democracy by Law, also known as the Venice Commission, to ask for an opinion on the legal issues under consideration on the amendment of the Constitutional Tribunal Act. Another point is that the Minister is firmly convinced that the international prestige of the Venice Commission and its professionalism will allow an objective assessment of the legal issues which are the subject of the proposal. These entries were deleted in March when they were presented here... after current information on the Constitutional Tribunal. Therefore, I would like to ask the applicant, the representative of the PiS, whether you have tried to consult, in a confidential manner, your draft law with the Venice Commission, in order to avoid further speeches by Minister Waszczykowski, in order to avoid the European Commission's accusations of violating European standards in the area of democracy. And second question: What is the point of today's PiS presenting its [[♪ The bell ♪]] draft law, since the marshal has appointed a team to investigate the situation with the Constitutional Tribunal? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u308	Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, Kukiz, 15 has the floor. There's no envoy. Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u309	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The PiS assassination of the Constitutional Tribunal can only end the publication of judgments and the acceptance of the oath from judges. My question is to the Democratic Defence Committee. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 19 You propose that the application of the candidate for a judge of the Tribunal may be made by the President of the Republic of Poland, the National Council of the Court of Justice, the General Assembly of the Supreme Court Judges and the General Assembly of the Supreme Court Judges of the NSA. The extension of the group of candidates for judges of the Constitutional Tribunal is a very positive initiative. We also had this record in our project. However, we believe that the most political actors should also be excluded, i.e. the bureau and a group of 50 Members. And we would suggest that you make such changes in your project. And on this occasion, I would like to thank all the citizens who signed up for the civic project, and I would like to thank all the citizens who are committed to democracy in Poland, and ask for more. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u310	Mr Krystian Jarubas, Polish People's Party, has the floor. Are you an MP? There isn't. Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski, Law and Justice have the floor. Are you an MP? There isn't. Mrs Ewa Kołodziej, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u311	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The paralysis of the Constitutional Tribunal that lasted for several months has brought Poland tangible losses not only in terms of image, but also in terms of finances. The phenomenon of non-respect of constitutional court decisions by the executive and parliamentary majority, I would like to say here very clearly, unknown to countries with a developed legal culture, poses an extremely serious threat to the rule of law and the protection of human rights in Poland. This situation undoubtedly requires a comprehensive, responsible and balanced legislative response to restore constitutional order and balance within the three divisions of power. Today, however, the draft Law and Justice, in print No 558, duplicates the solutions considered to be non-constitutional. In cases recognised in full court, the proposed law maintains the voting procedure by a majority of 2/3, which is contrary to the Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the application of this Regulation. 5 of our still existing constitution. The proposed rules granting the President and the Prosecutor-General, i.e. the executive authorities, the power to intervene in the trial of an independent constitutional court, raise serious doubts. In addition, the detailed procedural rules contained in the draft conflict with the need for efficiency of the procedure, giving rise to the risk of progressive chronicity and extended expectation of judgments. So I would like to ask the projectors whether these solutions are real. [[♪ The bell ♪]] necessary and rational for the purposes of the Law and the importance of the matter thus regulated. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u312	Thank you. Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u313	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! It is extremely exciting that after six months since the Kukiz Club submitted its proposal to amend the Constitution to resolve the whole game for a tribunal in a comprehensive and definitive way, we are returning to the subject with the intention and perhaps with the desire to resolve this dispute effectively. On the other hand, I have to ask your applicants, in principle all three projects, such a question: Why do you want to proceed with these changes, do you want to resolve this dispute in the course of the amendment of the law rather than the amendment of the constitution? After all, the law can in principle be amended by a simple majority, so if the Law and Justice want to make some further changes or possibly start a dispute over the tribunal, it will have the possibility to do so. On the other hand, if we were to change the constitution, then the majority needed to change the constitution would, as a rule, safeguard the possible further escalation of the dispute over the tribunal. And one more thing. Here during the discussion it was said that in Poland we have three divisions of power, that we should defend the three divisions of power. Well, ladies and gentlemen, according to what is written in the 1997 Constitution, there is only a theoretical division of power in Poland, because what three divisions of power can we talk about when a Member can be a minister at the same time and exercise control over himself? So since there is already a project of the Kukiz club15 [[♪ The bell ♪]] changes to the Constitutional Tribunal's constitution, perhaps it would also be worth leaning on the issue of ensuring a real threefold division of power in Poland? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u314	Thank you very much. Mr Witold Zembaczyński, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u315	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The Crusade of Law and Justice against the Constitutional Court can only end the publication of judgments and the acceptance of the oath from judges. From the literal sound of the article. 5 point 5 of the draft PiS Act, and this is my question to the applicants, it follows that the person elected as judge of the Tribunal is taking the oath to the President of the following text: "I pledge solemnly in the performance of my duties as judge of the Constitutional Tribunal to serve faithfully the National Court, to uphold the Constitution and to fulfil my duties impartially and with the utmost care.' So far, the judge has vowed to serve the nation faithfully and to uphold the constitution, doing so impartially according to his conscience and with the utmost care and upholding the dignity of his office. Why did the applicant change the content of the vows by removing the clause of conscience? The turnover of vows without this clause is lacking. The applicant wishes to establish a law which the judge cannot or cannot comply with. The judge operates within the limits of the constitution, the judicial system and his own morality, so he cannot abide by or abide by conflicting laws, for the judge does not exist without conscience. You can't exclude a judge from ruling, excluding his conscience, so in the draft, this change is absurd and we call for it to be removed. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u316	Thank you. Mr Marek Sawicki, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u317	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! We would like to say: up to three times the play, because for the third time PiS has been approaching the recovery of the situation around the Constitutional Tribunal, which we know perfectly, has broken itself. Today's presentation by Mr Piotrowski was a very long presentation, and I hope that it does not mark chronic legislation as well and that the work on these bill projects will be completed before December 2016. I would also like to point out that the politicians of PiS often say that the dispute over the Constitutional Tribunal is such a fuel for the opposition and the CODE. So you have a unique opportunity not to add this fuel to the fire and end this dispute, and unfortunately your project makes mistakes in your resolution law both from November and December, so it adds this fuel. The six judges mentioned by Professor Pawłowicz in the project of the Polish People's Party. The question is, have these judges begun their term of office? After all, the three elected in the previous term of office were not sworn in before the President, and the three elected in this term of office are not allowed to rule. Finally, Mr Piotrowicz: Will we really proceed on the basis of these three projects presented today, or by chance [[♪ The bell ♪]] during the seym work there will be no project of the Marshal Kuchciński team appointed under the leadership of Prof. Majchrowski and we will not see a new project, a new version of...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u318	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u319	...repairing your corrupt Constitutional Court? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u320	Mrs Barbara Bartus, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u321	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are at the meeting point of the Sejm: the first reading of the draft Constitutional Court Act, the amendment of the Constitutional Tribunal Act, and now there is a time when questions are asked for these laws. Unfortunately, the sitting, this point has not been going as it should have been, and essentially the most political speeches are here. So I, too, will not be making any questions about the projects that have been submitted, but I would just like to address these topics and ask questions about those topics that are most common here. I have a question for the applicant of the draft Law and Justice, to Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz, whether the three persons for whom the opposition demands that the President swear them, have been effectively chosen and whether the resolutions that were taken are important and whether the President should actually swear those persons. The second question may be to representatives of the civil project, representatives of the CODE. Maybe I'll start in this tone that has already appeared here: Where were you, when the constitution was broken, how the law was adopted in June last year and the Constitutional Tribunal was taken over? But I wanted to ask you if you know the art. 197 of the Constitution, which states that the organisation of the Constitutional Tribunal and the procedure for proceedings before the Tribunal are governed by the law. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And do you know that every bill passed, signed by the president, declared, has a presumption of constitutionality...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u322	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u323	...and that at that meeting in March, the tribunal didn't decide on the basis of the law in force? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u324	Mr Arkadiusz Myrch, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u325	Thank you, Marshal. Law and Justice already in 2007 tried to push a law similar to today's project. This confirms that, in fact, the false claim that PiS was trying to make things right is merely a continuation of a work not completed 10 years ago. And on the lie PiS builds this work, because it is a lie that the Platform should have 14 of 15 judges, because most of them were also elected by the voices of the Members of Law and Justice, because it is a lie that a compromise with opposition is needed to solve the crisis. It is the PiS that has the majority in the Seym and the Senate, the PiS has the government and the president, so it can take any legal solution, which we have already had several times in this term of office. And finally, it is a lie that anyone other than the Law and Justice are responsible for this crisis. The judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 3 December 2015, which PiS has recognised, only confirms this, as confirmed by the presence in the Court of Justice of the two judges elected in this term of office. Members of the PiS, will you stop this lying rhetoric? Because, as the Roman philosopher Seneca the Younger said, people who are enslaved lie, free speak the truth. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u326	Mr Michał Stasiński, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u327	Dear Marshal, Dear Members, I would like to ask the rapporteur from PSL. Mr Krzysztof, unfortunately, because of you, as I say with great sadness, I must agree with this speaker for the first time in my life with Mrs Pawłowicz, who will not be here because your proposal for an article. Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2, which plans to put out Members' mandates, unfortunately, is... [[Judges.]] Judges, I'm sorry. ...unconstitutional. The judges shall be elected once for a nine-year term and allow the situation in which their term of office is extinguished is a hit on the basis of their independence and independence, and the breach which we shall achieve in this way shall be the gateway to questioning their position now and in the years to come. My second question also concerns the non-constitutional inclusion in the PSL project, namely the violation of the article. 190 Constitution, which states that the rulings of the Constitutional Tribunal are generally valid and final. You are proposing that the Sejm may request a review of the Tribunal. The conclusion is one. In order to really prosecute your law, we must first change the constitution in an appropriate way, and in fact the assassination of the Constitutional Tribunal will end the taking of the oath from properly elected judges and the publication of judgments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u328	Thank you. Mr Piotr Polak, Law and Justice have the floor. There's no envoy. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u329	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The government of Beata Szydło has not published the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal for 92 days, which violates the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. President Andrzej Duda does not take a vow from properly elected judges, ignoring the applicable law. These are two shore conditions for the recommendations of the Venice Commission and, I believe, a document - although confidential - of the European Commission. Today's projects do not remove the main cause of the paralysis of the Constitutional Tribunal. The PiS project does not refer to an ongoing dispute. This is an empty gesture of the PiS towards the European Commission and, even worse, the Polish society, misleading everyone. It's an obvious fraud. I have a question: When will Prime Minister Beata Szydło and President Andrzej Duda perform their constitutional duties? And second question: At what stage of the work on the Constitutional Tribunal is the team appointed by the Marshal of the Sejm? I think this should be presented to Parliament today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u330	Thank you. Katarzyna Lubnauer, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u331	Ladies and gentlemen of the Messengers! Mr. Marshal! The PiS assassination of the Constitutional Tribunal can only end the publication of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal and take the oath of properly elected judges by the President. Let's get to the question. In the Law of the PiS in Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1 point (1) (a) f we read that the Constitutional Tribunal shall rule in full on matters of particular complexity and shall do so on the initiative of the President of the Constitutional Tribunal, but also at the request of the President or the Prosecutor General. Is this not a simple influence of the executive authority on judicial authority? In addition, note one more thing: if we add an article to it. Article 29 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5, which says that the Attorney General is taking part in the deliberations of the Constitutional Tribunal, if they are held in full office, we have a situation in which the Attorney General, first stating that the case is a matter of particular complexity and then not coming to the hearing, can block the Constitutional Tribunal. I understand that this is the ultimate idea of law and justice to block the Constitutional Tribunal, including blocking the possibility of ruling on non-constitutional laws proposed by law and justice. I just wanted to clarify. Mr. Marshal, Mrs. Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, who spoke about the rejection of the laws, requested rejection at first reading. [[♪ The bell ♪]] draft Laws of Law and Justice and PSL. That's the conclusion we're making.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u332	Thank you. Małgorzata Golińska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u333	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, it is sad to say today that today's debate is a demonstration of everything that I did not like, when I was not yet an MEP, and I watched the sessions from TV screens, and what I think the people of Poland did not like, and I met them, which they did not really expect from Members of this term. Unfortunately, they do. Today's discussion is a kind of display of the oratorio capabilities of individual Members, the one who will be more ridiculous, the one who will offend whom, who will use a harsher statement about what is happening with the Constitutional Court Act, who will finally be quoted by the media, because that's probably what this is all about. If one of the Members comes to the stand and explains that, since we have a full judge today, the oath of another judge is already a violation of the law, that the publication of the ruling of the tribunal is a violation of the law today, and that after this statement comes another Member and says that the condition for discussion of the tribunal is the publication of the judgment and the oath of the judges, I finally ask what it is about. [[The law. The state of law.]] Is it about us finally working as Members, or is it about us grilling this topic endlessly? Because it's kind of fuel that drives it all a little bit, as one of the PSL Members said. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And the question may not be to the applicants, because here is the will to change it, but to all the other Members: Do you want to calm down the Sejm's mode of work, or do you want to use every opportunity to heat this situation up? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u334	Thank you, Member. Mrs Lydia Gądek, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u335	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Anything to say today, one thing's for sure: we won't find the wheels again. All the confusion is caused by the desire to cause confusion by the PiS, a party that has law and justice in its name, and is sowing lawlessness and breaking up with all the principles of the rule of law. At this point, very cordial thanks to the citizens' initiative for a quick response and a gathering of more than 110 000. signatures. Why didn't it happen before? Because there was no need, because the rule of law was fully respected. But now I have a question... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Don't interrupt. Why in any of the projects, especially in the response to the opinion of the European Commission, there is no protection against the so-called. The fifth column inside the tribunal? We had such a situation, that in the media one of the officials of the Tribunal, or perhaps the assistant of a judge recently elected under the new law of the recommendation of the PiS, had publicly wronged the President of the Constitutional Tribunal. No matter who is the President and under what conditions we operate - this cannot happen. And since we're gonna amend the bill, we're gonna have to put in a record that's gonna make it impossible. If you want to change the bill, change it, but until today. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It is in force, so keep it, for you have been chosen by the nation and the sovereign will demand it of the state. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u336	Ms Joanna Augustynowska, Moderna, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u337	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Just a moment ago, Mrs. Golińska asked me what was going on. I'll explain. The assassination of the PiS on the tribunal can only end the publication of judgments and the acceptance of the oath from the judges. That's basic. Now, about the bill and my question, I'm going to say yes. As a justification for the prosecution of this draft law, the applicant points to the danger of two legal regimes operating in trade, which is a consequence of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 9 March 2016, which has not been published to this day. 92 days - already mentioned. What, then, is the applicant's assessment of the danger of two parallel legal orders? Do you mean only that the government and the PiS operate in a different legal order and you do not have legal rules that apply to ordinary citizens, courts or local authorities? Why do local governments unconditionally accept the effects of decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal and the government, the Prime Minister and the President do not? Please respond in writing, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u338	Mrs Joann Frydrych, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u339	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have questions for the applicants of the draft Constitutional Tribunal Act, contained in print No 558. Why did the oath made by the judge of the Constitutional Tribunal disappear from the statement that the judges would carry out their duties according to their conscience while safeguarding the dignity of the office? Let us remind you that the work of the judge is inseparable from the independence and independence of the judge. And second question. A person whose scientific achievements and legal practice are specific should be elected to the office of the Judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. The draft law removed the age threshold, which concerned the requirement for a judge to complete his 40th year of age at the time of his election as judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. Aren't applicants concerned by this lowering the status of this office and opening the professional path for those who should not take such an important position? Gaining outstanding legal knowledge requires time and dedication to scientific work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u340	Thank you. The voice of Mrs Monica Rosa, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u341	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The PiS assassination of the Constitutional Tribunal can only end the publication of judgments and the acceptance of the oath of judges. Dear Members and Members of the PiS! You promised social, economic, civic change, and all you do is revolution and fight the institutions, fight the Constitutional Tribunal and fight the law. Why do you duplicate the provisions of the Act that have already been declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Tribunal? I am referring here to the ruling by a majority of 2/3 of the votes in full court and the recognition of the conclusions by the tribunal in accordance with the order of influence. Why do you write into the bill and give the President and the Prosecutor-General the power to intervene in the case-law of the Constitutional Tribunal? Ladies and gentlemen! Are you really happy with the war you gave to the Constitutional Court? I hear whoever has power doesn't have to apologize, but you, ladies and gentlemen, will eventually lose that power and apologize. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u342	Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u343	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Sovereign - it is very often referred to as very serious. And behold, the sovereign marches, marches with slogans: publish and swear. The Sovereign knows that the conflict for the Constitutional Tribunal is a conflict for the foundation of the rule of law. The Sovereign has collected 100,000. signatures under a civil project restoring the dignity of the Constitutional Court and submitting it to the Sejm, and the ruling majority treated the project as a smokescreen before the European Commission. She did it with a great gallantry, with a gallantry, because, as the applicant, Mr Piotrowicz of PiS, pointed out, this project is presented first in the Seym. However, wasn't this project finally introduced with the gallantry to vanquish it, because the leading project will be the PiS project, which is opposite to the CODE project? The Sovereign will be amazed to see that he was used. For what? For democracy. But what is it? Democracy, unfortunately, seemingly. And the European Commission? Mr applicant, what can the European Commission do with apparent democracy? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u344	Mrs Marta Golbik, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u345	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The assassination of law and justice on the Constitutional Tribunal can only end the publication of judgments and the acceptance of the oath by judges. I have questions for law and justice applicants. What justifies an increase in the number of candidates presented to the President as President of the Constitutional Tribunal? Is the change in the number of candidates from two to at least three, i.e. the admission of more than three candidates, not determined by the need to create a mechanism allowing the election in December 2016 of the President of the Judges recommended by Law and Justice, and thus the actual subpoena of the independent judicial authority of the ruling party? Once again, ladies and gentlemen, the publication of judgments and the acceptance of the oath of judges. This ruling party has all the tools in its hands to put an end to the crisis we have in our country in connection with the Constitutional Tribunal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u346	Thank you. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u347	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Part of the provisions of the new project are identical to those already recognised by the Constitutional Tribunal as non-constitutional, e.g. the issuing of judgments by a majority of 2/3 of the votes and the appointment of time limits for cases. The proposal with a slight change maintained the provision that the time limits for the hearing are set in the order of influence of the cases to the tribunal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The PiS has been trying to marginalize the Constitutional Tribunal for several months. The rulings of the tribunal call the private opinion of a group of judges, does not publish judgments, does not matter to the opinions of the Venice Commission or legal environments in Poland. The possibility for the European Parliament to impose sanctions on Poland is not a circumstance for PiS politicians to be taken into account. So I wanted to ask: Where is this compromise? Where's the good change? When will you publish the judgment of the Constitutional Court? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u348	Thank you. Mrs Ewa Lieder, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u349	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The PiS assassination of the Constitutional Tribunal can only end the publication of judgments and the acceptance of the oath from judges. Now, here's the question. What are the substantive reasons for withdrawing from the draft law the alphabetical allocation of cases to the next judges of the Constitutional Tribunal? Does this result from the fact that the names of the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal recommended by the PiS begin with the same letter in the alphabet? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u350	Mr Zbigniew... excuse me, Robert Kropiwnicki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u351	High Izbo! Well, we are debating a very important system act, or actually a project, three draft laws, two of which are very opposite, are based on different axiology: one in a democratic state of law, and the other in a democracy, such an apparent one actually or, you can say, in the Russian version, a sovereign democracy actually, because you love to invent new wordings in order to distinguish, separate yourself from the established doctrine of a democratic state of law, which we have written in the Constitution. I don't know why it bothers you so much. The Constitutional Tribunal, which is the fuse and guarantor of rights and freedoms, guarantees that democracy will protect the rights of minorities, that it will not only be convenient for the majority, but will apply to everyone. And you want to introduce most of the judgments to be judged by a 2/3 majority, because we have no doubt that the pattern you are giving - Article. 2, Article 10, Art. 31 and many others - will deal with most constitutional complaints. So most decisions will be decisions that will have to be taken by a majority of 2/3, which is unconstitutional. Will the Attorney General be able to block the work of the Constitutional Tribunal? What's he got? [[♪ The bell ♪]] The result is that...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u352	Time's up, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u353	You're restricting the rights of an attorney... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u354	Thank you, sir. [[But let me finish my sentence. Don't take an example from the PiS...]] Thank you. Have a seat, sir. Sit down, don't be nervous. Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u355	High Seym! The conflict around the tribunal does not serve Poland. We can end it by printing out the judgments of the tribunal and taking a vow from the judges. My question about the law and justice project is as follows. It is envisaged that the expiry of the term of office of the judge of the Tribunal will be subject to the agreement of the President of the Republic of Poland. Will the President of the Republic of the Republic of Poland in this project be a kind of second instance to be referred to against the decision of a disciplinary court to be punished by the removal of the judge of the tribunal? Is this not the obvious interference of the executive authority, I am thinking of the President of the Republic, the powers of the judiciary and thus the limitation of the independence of the tribunal, the further limitation of the independence of the Constitutional Tribunal after these steps we have observed so far? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u356	Thank you. Mr Wojciech Wilk, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u357	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The basic questions raised are: When will the highest officials in the state begin to comply with the Constitution? When will the President take the oath from three legally elected judges? When will the Prime Minister and I remind you that 92 days have passed, publish the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, a judgment which must be published? My next questions, here I am addressing Members of the Law and Justice: When will you end this game of appearances around the Constitutional Court? When are you going to implement the recommendations of the Venice Commission, which he invited to Poland, will I remind you, Minister of Government, Mr Witold Waszczykowski? Could you answer the question whether the project you have presented is implementing the recommendations of the Venice Commission to any extent? Next question. I would also like to ask what the government is going to do about this, whether the government is going to do anything, because for the time being it is using such a method of shifting responsibility to Parliament, in my opinion, on purpose, to drag a dispute and at the same time create a seeming solution to the problem. And it is not the Sejm that publishes the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal, it is the Prime Minister and the Government, and this is one of the elements of solving the problem and restoring the constitutional state. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u358	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u359	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The assassination of law and justice on the Constitutional Tribunal can only end the publication of judgments and the acceptance of the oath from all legally elected judges. I wanted to ask a question to a representative of the applicants from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. In the explanatory memorandum of the bill, you argued that the judgment of 9 March 2016 was issued in the composition of an unknown constitution. The above claim in the assessment of the applicants justifies the amendment of the TK Act by presenting a completely new draft of the TK Act. However, given that the judgment referred to a change made by the current parliamentary majority, the obvious question arises as to whether the government should not implement the judgment of the Court of 9 March, simply publishing it and thus ending the whole matter. So I'd ask you to answer that question. On the other hand, I also wanted to answer the question of one of the Members of Law and Justice. Don't be delusional. Every time you destroy our country, when you destroy the institutions of a democratic legal state, when you destroy the achievements of free Poland or destroy our budget, we will do everything we can to make sure that Poles know about it. We will do this loudly and effectively so that everyone knows what the effect of the state of government is. We're gonna do everything we can. [[♪ The bell ♪]] which provides for the law to simply block these actions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u360	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Pampuch, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u361	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! Unfortunately, once again, we are dealing with the cynical action of the PiS to extend the dispute around the Constitutional Tribunal, not its solution through compromise. The draft law submitted by Law and Justice essentially duplicates those non-constitutional arrangements which the Court found in its judgment of 9 March. In addition, in the article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 7 You wish to introduce the side gate of your three elected judges, because this provision states that the judge, after taking the oath, is placed in the court for the purpose of taking up his duties, and the President of the Tribunal assigns the case to him and creates the conditions for fulfilling the duties of the judge. The adoption of these provisions will result in the need to allow judges elected by law and justice to be heard. Isn't this just a war with the President of the Constitutional Tribunal, not an actual action to resolve the dispute around the Constitutional Tribunal? Let us be clear, however: the war of law and justice with the Constitutional Tribunal can only end the publication of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 9 March and the adoption by the President of the oath of three properly elected [[♪ The bell ♪]] Judges. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u362	Mrs Katarzyna Osos, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u363	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! When we read the project presented by PiS, one question arises: Do you really think we're all idiots? Do you really think we're gonna fall for this? Because how can you take your project seriously, how can you take your announcements of the will to compromise seriously, when once again you are presenting a project in which a number of rules raise doubts about their compatibility with the constitution, a project that gives the executive authority real tools to interfere with the activities of the tribunal? How can we take this debate seriously if it seems to be just a smokescreen for the European Union? You want the tribunal to get addicted or paralyzed. That's your goal. And since you have such a purpose, none of the projects you have presented will be consistent with the legal order in force. The Court must be independent, act efficiently and uphold the Constitution. As long as your projects are going in the opposite direction, this discussion or any debate makes sense. And instead of asking a question, let's start taking each other seriously. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u364	Thank you. Before giving the floor to the next Member, I would like to welcome the students present at the Gallery of the Turkish Technical Schools with their tutors. [[Applause]] Please, Mr Grzegorz Furgo, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u365	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Way of Youth! The PiS assassination on the TK can only end the publication of judgments and take a vow from the judges. Because, actually, ladies and gentlemen, there is no political conflict around the Constitutional Tribunal, there is only a legal conflict that you must resolve because you have unleashed it yourself. You are trying to confuse the eyes of Poles and the public abroad that you are having a dialogue with the opposition. That's not true, because as you can see in the picture attached, there's an empty room. We also have witnesses - Polish youth. You really want to make it, ladies and gentlemen, by December, when Professor Rzepliński's term of office is over, and then scooter your soul. You are introducing laws that are not on the way with the Constitution, and thus with the Constitutional Tribunal. Your actions lead to an unprecedented conflict in Poland and isolation of the Polish state abroad. And now I have a question: Is it true that the crowning of your actions will be a change of electoral ordination and a constitution? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u366	Thank you. Mr Zbigniew Konwiński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u367	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the part of the representatives of the Law and Justice, the word 'compromise' is coming up, including in this debate. What does this compromise mean in the issue of Law and Justice? It's kind of like a thief came into the apartment, robbed the whole apartment, and then he said, "On the way to compromise, I can give you back the washing machine and the fridge." Do you know where you can put a compromise like that? You know. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Mr...]] [[The voice from the hall: It's a shame.]] [[It's a shame to steal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u368	Right. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u369	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I, too, will begin my speech by saying that the war against the Constitutional Tribunal by the PiS can only end the pronouncement of judgments and the oath of judges. And why do we keep saying that so often and keep saying it all the time? Because you are completely impregnated on any arguments, whether they are arguments of outstanding figures of Polish law, departments of Polish universities, the Venice Commission, the European Commission, you simply have them for nothing. You are based on the knowledge of Mr Piotrowicz's prosecutor as the only knowledge of law and democracy. On the issue of democracy, you are the one who should not speak. As for the project that you have presented here, Mr President, if you are so open to compromise, to the citizens' project, why shouldn't our work be based on a citizens' project? Yesterday, Mrs Wassermann said that the base would be your project. If you are open to civic projects, please let this be the basis for working on this compromise. You don't care about that. Why? Because you don't even want this bill to be tested in constitutional terms by the Constitutional Tribunal. You introduce 14 days of vacathio legis - and you shorten from 30 days that were - just so the tribunal couldn't verify [[♪ The bell ♪]] during the vacatio legis, whether this law is compatible with the constitution.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u370	Finish your work, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u371	You're cheating every step of the way, and unfortunately, it seems to be in your blood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u372	Mrs Elizabeth Stępień, Moderna, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u373	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is the PiS bombing, the PiS bombing on the Constitutional Tribunal. Why does the applicant again propose that the Constitutional Tribunal should consider cases in the order of their influence, not according to their importance and their degree of validity for citizens in the context of the time of recognition and the consequences of the absence of a judgment on their rights and obligations? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u374	Thank you. Mr Rafał Grupiński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u375	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Very much, too. It could be repeated by the words of my previous speakers. A bit so Kato the Elder, who said that Carthage must be destroyed, so we all say that the judgment of the Constitutional Court must be printed, actually already sentences, and also three judges legally elected should be sworn in by the President. Breaking the constitution should be interrupted. But the questions that are often raised here should, in fact, be replaced by one question, namely: Why does Mr Jarosław Kaczyński hate, well, maybe he hates, but he hates, in depth, democracy? Why, in order to humiliate the High House, does he expose a prosecutor of martial law as a man who is about to destroy this democracy? Why is he always trying to act in a way that, I think, would give well the words of Michel Montaigne, the creator of a modern threefold division of power, who said that cruelty is often the mother of cowardice? Fear of democracy seems to guide your steps. Fear of democracy. Ordinary cowardice before submission to the laws that were both established in the Constitution and established by the Semya of the previous term of office. You're afraid of the freedom Erich Fromm once wrote about, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And that's why today you're trying to destroy everything that's been built for 25 years. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u376	Mr Adam Szłapka, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u377	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The PiS assassination of the Constitutional Tribunal can only end the publication of judgments and the oath of legally elected judges. I would like to ask Mr Piotrowicz a question, in fact, with a few questions. I remember exactly, in December, when you were the representative of the applicants of this December Constitutional Tribunal Act, when Moderna paid very much attention to the fact that this would lead to the crisis of the Constitutional Tribunal, that you wanted to paralyze the Constitutional Tribunal, that you were laughing at every appearance and said that you were saving the Constitutional Tribunal after the June bombing. What's our situation today? The Venice Commission, which is examining the case, the European Commission procedure that has been under way, and the largest constitutional crisis in 27 years. And I think you knew that because you deliberately paralyzed the tribunal and you knew it, and you're still going through it. So I have questions, Mr Reporter: Is it true that the Constitution is the highest source of law in Poland, superior to laws? Is it true that the Constitutional Tribunal is the only authority empowered to rule on the compatibility of laws with the Constitution? And is it true that decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal have the power of universal law? The answers to these questions are obvious, including for you, Mr President, because you know perfectly well the answers to these questions. My question is simpler: What are the intentions of Law and Justice? ♪ Bo ♪ [[♪ The bell ♪]] We can all see that it is not the solution to this crisis, it is the blinding of citizens and the further paralyzing of the Constitutional Tribunal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u378	Mr Killion Munyama, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u379	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! By December 2015, Poland, being the largest country in Central and Eastern Europe, was a role model in respect of law not only in the European Union and in the Council of Europe, but also in underdeveloped countries. Politicians and citizens of Western countries open their eyes today and are terrified when they see what is happening to the Constitutional Tribunal in Poland under the rule of the PiS. It's easy to spoil the image, but it takes a lot of effort and time to build it. Doesn't the PiS realise what it is doing and how difficult it will be to improve the image of Poland? You are talking about reporting to Poland in the European Union and elsewhere, and it was your minister who invited the Venice Commission to Poland. What was that for? Why do you think the rest of the world is made up of illiterate and idiots and doesn't know what's going on in Poland? Why does PiS want to continue to put the country in isolation? As I see it, it seems to me that just under the rule of law and justice... Today even in many African countries [[♪ The bell ♪]] respect for democracy is greater. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u380	Thank you. Mr Józef Lassot, Civic Platform. Are you an MP? There's no envoy. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u381	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I want to return to the memory of the beginning of December and the first, how unsavory, dispute over the Constitutional Tribunal here in this House. I remember that in his direct speech to the nation in the form of a television presentation, President Duda committed to setting up an expert team within the National Development Council to prepare constructive compromises on the Constitutional Tribunal. I therefore wanted to ask the absent President from this place - but this speech will be registered, it will also be recorded in the minutes - whether his commitment, expressed in a public address to the people, directly, has been fulfilled. Is this the kind of band that's made? And now the question to the Members of the applicants, the authors of the bill, who speak on behalf of the Law and Justice. Or have you seen one of these experts, consulted on these assumptions and proposals of the project? Unfortunately, I'll answer myself, probably not. We have not heard that such a team was created, we observe the passiveness of the President, and when we read the project that you have been reporting today, we see that if you listened to some genuine, authentic, objective experts, you would not go back to solutions such as 2/3, such as ruling in the order of filing laws that have already been challenged by the Constitutional Tribunal. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u382	Thank you. Mrs Isabel Leszczyn, Civic Platform, has the floor. There is no Member. Mr Sławomir Nitras, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u383	Thank you, Marshal. It is worth repeating after many people who stood in front of me here on the stand that this deep crisis caused by the PiS war which he declared to the Constitutional Court can only be resolved by taking a vow from the legally elected judges by the President who breaks the law, and by publishing judgments which, by breaking the Constitution, are not published by Prime Minister Szydło. Every day of this conflict is detrimental to Poland. I have questions for Mr. Peterovich. First, Mr: Which is the recovery proposal you are presenting to the High House? That's the first question. Two. As I ask the second, I must quote a passage from the statement of reasons which you have read so abundantly today: in particular, this need arises from the fact of a legal dispute in which the Constitutional Tribunal itself has been involved. On 9 March 2016, the tribunal, in proceedings in the composition of an unknown constitution... What is the constitution? Where did you find these records? Why do you write such words? I continue to quote: The resulting refusal to publish... Where does the law refer to the right to refuse publication? Can you answer these questions for me? Decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal are generally binding and final; decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal are immediately published in the official body - you should know these provisions. I wanted to ask Mr. Peterowicz one more thing. When those who break the Constitution answer to the Constitutional Tribunal, will you be with them? And what character you're gonna be, the prosecutor. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Or a defense attorney? Because knowing your servility towards the current regime, I am able to imagine you in both of these roles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u384	Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u385	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Members of the Law and Justice! Over the past few months, you have been effectively undermining the foundations of a democratic rule of law. In December, when you started activities related to the Constitutional Tribunal, you talked about the need to repair the tribunal, but behind the word "repair" was its complete demolition and paralysis. Later you talked about dialogue with the European Commission, but behind the word "dialogue" there was confrontation and a desire to argue. Now you're using the third noble word "compromise." But what's behind him? I have the indisputable impression that this is a need, even a desire, to submit to the judicial authority to you, the executive authority, just so that it would not dare to challenge laws that would prove unconstitutional. That is why I wanted to ask you: Why this political sham about the compromise you are passing on to Poles, since Jarosław Kaczyński, your president, has long said that he will not take a step backwards and you will not withdraw from it? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u386	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I'm ordering a five-minute recess. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 17 mins 56 hours 18 min 04]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider items 19, 20, and the 21st agenda. Please respond to the representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee of Mr Jarosław Marciniak, print No 550.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u387	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There's been a lot of questions, but not so much in our direction. I'll try to answer what's come our way. Ladies and gentlemen! I can see why Mr Piotrowicz had to read the bill. I think this is a necessary issue for Members of the Law and Justice who do not read the prints and then ask questions such as deadlines. So in response I will say that in the print project 550 in the article. 87 it is stated that the chairman of the formation of the hearing shall set a time limit for the hearing and inform the parties to the proceedings thereof, the hearing may not take place earlier than 14 days after the date of service of the notice of its date to the participants in the proceedings. Therefore, there is no mention of six months or three months, as someone suggested before. As for the awareness of the action of the tribunal under the law, here again the ability to read, in particular the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal, is bowed down, because the judgment of the Court of 9 March quite clearly states in its explanatory memorandum that the judges delivered the judgment in full as was possible at the time and on the basis of the law which was then in force. So the sentence is an important sentence and the sentence should be published. And this is one of the basic steps to end this crisis that is around the tribunal. The second step, as we have already mentioned, is to take a vow from three legally elected judges, as confirmed by the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal on 3 and 9 December. Very often there were questions about where the CODE was, what the CODE was doing. I'll answer you: CODE wasn't there because he didn't have to be... [[Voice from the hall: But the people were.]] ...because there were courts, because there was a tribunal, because everything was working and functioning in this country normally. [[Voice from the room: wiretaps, too?]] If someone wanted to bring a case to justice, he could have done it. The courts functioned, the tribunal acted. [[Voice from the room: Civil rights...]] [[Voice from the room: Don't get me started, gentlemen.]] Gentlemen, I understand that you want to disturb sometime, but let me, just a moment longer, and I won't be taking your time at this point. Let me put it this way: Members of the Law and Justice, Members of the Platforms, Members of other clubs could also at that time ask a question addressed to the Constitutional Court regarding the constitutional compatibility of the election of these five judges, but somehow no one did, so the same question as where the CODE was, can be addressed to Members: Where were the Members where was the President when he took up his duties? Once again, we stress: the adoption of a vow, the publication of a judgment and a law that does not paralyze the Constitutional Tribunal, that is what the Committee for the Defence of Democracy stands for, what we expect. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice in the room: Election results.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u388	Thank you. Please respond to the representative of the applicants of Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz, print No 558. [[The enemy?]] [[Voice from the room: Print No. 558.]] [[Oh, printing. Excuse me, Mr. Marshal, because I understand the enemy.]] [[Voice from the room: 500th...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u389	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Many questions have been asked at my address as the representative of the applicants, and so forgive me for having to answer them for a while. I would first of all like to thank Mr Rafał Grupiński, but also Mr Sławomir Nitras, for the fact that, in order to respect me, they are constantly calling me a prosecutor. To bring public opinion out of error and at the same time not to be accused of impersonating me as an unworthy title, I've been straightened out: I haven't been a prosecutor in 11 years. As to why President Jarosław Kaczyński chose me to present the bill... [[We know, we know.]] ...that's probably the reason you're calling me a prosecutor. I think that's how you want to emphasize my legal knowledge. As far as my past is concerned, I am also grateful for this question, and I must refer to it, since you are talking about various regimes in which I have allegedly functioned in the past. This kind of question at my address gives me an excellent opportunity to give you an answer in this regard as well. Indeed, I was a prosecutor, there were noble and good people everywhere, and those who did not deserve that name. That's the first basic thing. Second thing. I'm the boss of the D.A.'s office. People came to see me to run for Senate. I refused three times. They've come again, declaring that they want me to run. At the time, I didn't even know who it was, because I wasn't interested in politics at the time. I agreed to run, and I got a staggering number of votes, running as head of the D.A.'s office. I was aware that being a prosecutor wasn't a big deal. Apparently, I was an extraordinary prosecutor whose past people knew well, and that's why they chose me to the Senate twice and then twice to the Sejm, and they entrusted me with many other responsible tasks. I would also like to stress that if someone has a doubt about what kind of man I am, that I will not appeal to the decorations granted to me by democratic institutions, but also to the accomplishments which have become my participation in the martial law period, but I would quote that it was after the introduction of martial law for refusing to conduct ad hoc investigations, political investigations, that I was demoted. [[A hero.]] You've made a fine assessment of it. Thank you for putting it this way. [[Applause]] [[You'd like that.]] At that time I was demoted and abused, and when later, in 1990, for Poland, as you say, I was finally freed and finally honored and became the head of the prosecutor's office, then the Democratic Alliance wrote letters to the next ministers of justice to dismiss me from the office of prosecutor. That's how they justified it. I have a letter from the SLD on me, as if I felt that the state, without any substantive arguments, would strike at me. Well, in a letter to the Minister of Justice, a Member of the Democratic Alliance wrote: "I am addressing the Minister, the Prosecutor General, with a complaint about the activities of Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz, the District Attorney. [[What does that have to do with anything?]] He supported activists of the Christian-National Union and the widely understood right in Podkarpacie with his prosecution and biased decisions. The district attorney, with crystallized right-wing views, obviously tended to take action. This makes me think that Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz lost his social trust - that's how he concluded with the SLD. He has lost public confidence and has exhausted all the grounds for carrying out objective prosecutorial control as a district attorney. You can see who put me on the right. I'm not the one who's usurped. I've always had clear, crystallized views. And so, rightly so, he wrote about these views, not me, of the Democratic Left Alliance. Thank you very much to Mr Grupinski, Mr Nitras, for allowing me, through such questions, to respond, and I propose that, for the future, if you want to bully someone, if you want to defame someone, reach into his life story. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: What about the case of a priest from Tylawa?]] [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] I will now address the questions raised by you. [[Voice from the room: Well, what do you mean, yes?]] [[Voice from the room: It's an exception.]] Mrs Bartus of Law and Justice in her question asks whether these three persons elected as judges can be sworn in. Anyone who knows a little bit of the law knows it's impossible. Calling the president to swear three people at the moment is calling for a constitutional violation. The Constitution provides that the Constitutional Tribunal shall consist of 15 Judges and that so many Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal shall be present. Those three chosen are not judges. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: There they are.]] The fact that they are not judges, you have written down the state - I am talking to you from the Civic Platform and PSL - in the 2015 Act. After all, you wrote about them: the chosen ones. You didn't write, "Judges take an oath," you just wrote "chosen people." For lawyers, this is of great importance; words play an important role in law. So much for that. Therefore, it is impossible to swear that the oath would involve a violation of the constitution. Many of you, like a mantra, have repeated the same questions: Why do you not publish the judgment? Why didn't the president swear three Members? Both in one case and in the other case, it would be a violation of the law to implement your demands. With regard to the judges for these reasons, which I have said, but it is also worth adding that the State, in demanding an oath, is forgetting that the Sejm considered that choice to be ineffective. The resolution of the current parliament stated that the resolutions of 9 October on the election of judges do not have legal force. I will not develop this issue more closely, I have developed it once, who of you has the desire to do so, can reach into the transcripts. Mr Myrcha asks why PiS is lying, accuses that PiS is lying, that it is not responsible for the conflict around the Constitutional Tribunal. In many of the questions there was a false representation of the facts connected with the question of why. Dear Members, in order to answer honestly, we must refer to a reliable reality. Therefore, I must stress - until I am awkward, because I am saying this for one time - dear country, do not forget that the conflict around the Constitutional Tribunal was caused by the actions of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party. I'm not saying this to rub it again. I would like to forget about it and not talk about it at all, but you are forcing me to do so, as you say, that the PiS is responsible for this conflict. No, it was those groups that led to the conflict. It's not just my grade. After all, this sentence was also confirmed by the Constitutional Court in its judgment, on which case law you refer so often. That's right. After all, he stated that the Civic Platform, when adopting the 2015 Act, had broken the constitution. After all, it was this tribunal that declared it. And, of course, in the media, some of the politicians of the Civic Platform said, "Yes, we are fighting in the chest," it was our mistake. Okay, but why don't they name things? Yeah, we broke the constitution. I understand it's awkward to admit guilt, but, ladies and gentlemen, there is a need for restraint. If you're talking about breaking the constitution yourself, that it was your mistake, then why are you using the term that this is an assassination attempt on the tribunal while we didn't break the constitution? And I'm gonna refer to that. Namely, Mr Zembaczyński draws attention, asks why the vows have been changed. Well, the rotation of the oath is a thorough repetition of the record of the oath of the Constitutional Court of 1997. That's an exact record. Anyway, today, on the grounds of the bill, I was talking about it. Some of you have been impatient for so long, but it seems that it is probably not enough in depth and too short, since these questions are still being asked. The Law and Justice Project is based on the 1997 Act, because we were looking for a plane on which we could come up with an agreement. You suspect us of our evil intentions. Well, I can tell you that some of you are still haunted by this morbid suspicion. [[But we would never dare.]] So I would like to stress, ladies and gentlemen, to judge us through our achievements, because this is extremely important. If someone says that we are planning a future attack on democracy, it is worth remembering that it was our group, the Law and Justice, in 2007, when they could not implement their programme, they did not cling to power. On the contrary, we have adopted the resolution of Parliament. Since we could not implement the programme, we adopted the resolution of the parliament and submitted to the sovereign's assessment. And, ladies and gentlemen, why do you think that we can do something in the future, richer with this kind of experience? There is a Polish saying, and in these words a little truth is often: I believe you to me. I wish I didn't. Marshal Dolnyak. I find it difficult to say, because she was directing her comments towards Law and Justice, but I think most of you have noticed that she has mixed up all the projects and these critical comments. It wasn't about our project, it was about other projects, so it's hard for me to relate to it. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: That is not true.]] Mr Stasiński said that the PSL project is unconstitutional. I won't dwell on it. Yes, I agree with his statement in this respect, in which he questioned it. Mr Stasiński also said that the dispute would end the vow of properly elected judges. Well, the judges weren't properly elected, but I don't want to go back to that, because that's what I was talking about before. Mrs Frydrych also spoke about vows. I was just explaining this case. She also talked about the age the judge should have. Remember, I once said that we are opposed to any discrimination, and age can also be a cause of discrimination. The Constitution does not require how old a candidate for a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal is to be. The Constitution only says that it is to be characterized by distinctive legal knowledge. Mrs Rosa is speaking again, like the majority. [[Most of the nation.]] Sounds like a mantra: publishing judgment and swearing in. I've told you this before. [[It's a constitution.]] If the Constitution, then again, the Member did not listen carefully. According to the Constitution, there may be no more judges of the Constitutional Tribunal than 15 and judgments shall be published. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: The Sejm is not a court.]] In order for a document to be of the nature of a judgment, it must meet certain criteria. [[Voice from the hall: They have been chosen.]] Art. The 7th Constitution states that public authorities operate on the basis of law and within the limits of law. [[Voice from the room: Then do it.]] I have therefore asked you a question on several occasions and I have never received an answer. Under what law was the Constitutional Tribunal held on 9 March? [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: It is written in the sentence.]] I never got an answer to that. [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: It is written in the explanatory memorandum.]] I have heard such statements that the Constitutional Tribunal did not apply the Constitutional Court Act, because President Rzepliński said that he did not see this law. [[Voice from the room: He didn't read.]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: He applied this law.]] Ladies and gentlemen, how can the President of the Constitutional Tribunal say that he does not see a law that is binding? Every law that comes out of the Sejm and is signed by the President is an act in force. He's taking advantage of the presumption of constitutionality. There's no legal justification anywhere for any public authority to say, and I'm not interested in this bill. [[Member of Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Please read the opinion of the Venice Commission.]] You're referring to the constitution. In this context, too, the constitution was invoked when it was pointed out that the tribunal, sitting on 9 March, applied the constitution directly. Ladies and gentlemen, I quote from memory, but almost literally, art. 8 the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. He says this: the constitution is applied directly, unless the constitution provides otherwise. And in this case, the constitution is different. Take a look at this article. 197. It's not enough to wave a book with the title "Constitution." It's worth reading and getting to know. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 197 are referred to: the organisation of the Constitutional Tribunal and the procedure before it are governed by the law. There are no exceptions here, ladies and gentlemen. I therefore ask further: On the basis of what was the Constitutional Tribunal held on 9 March? [[Voice from the room: About three laws.]] Not based on the bill, because President Rzepliński says he doesn't see this bill. However, it will be worse if other citizens say this: and we do not see a tax bill, we do not see a law like that, we do not see another law, because the tribunal has not yet spoken about it. Dear country, this kind of thinking is the anarchy of state life, and it is still proposed in this case by the Constitutional Tribunal. [[Professor...]] Mrs Rosa also says that... [[He likes the Member.]] ...the authorisation of the prosecutor and the president to apply for a case, their view of the case as particularly complex interferes with the case law of the Constitutional Tribunal. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a lot of abuse in this formulation. What is the interference in the case law if an entity of this kind, the Attorney General or the President asks that the case be dealt with in full? This is interference in the case-law? It's not like the prosecutor or the president is telling us how the tribunal is supposed to judge. If they were to tell us how to order it, it would indeed be interference, and here is only a request for it, it is proposed that, due to the complexity of the case, the tribunal should recognise the matter in full. Mr Nowak of the Civic Platform says: the sovereign has submitted a citizens' project. He's talking about the CODE project. And then it runs into the future again: you will reject this project. And for this reason, a strong argument is immediately used: it is a deception on the part of the Law and Justice, a deception, because you will reject it. And what do you look like in this regard? You're charging us with what we're gonna do in the future with no reason to do that. And how did you behave today? The citizens' initiative has been submitted to Parliament and we have consistently acted as we have said over the past eight years: citizens' projects deserve attention, whether we like them or not, cannot be ignored 100,000. signatures and great social commitment. Regardless of what may later happen to the project, it is necessary to respect the efforts of Poles, the efforts of citizens, to lean on such a project, to consider and to refer in substance to it. We voted for this citizens' project to enter into today's session of the Sejm. What about you? You voted against this project to bring it to the table. [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: Because this is a curtain.]] The modern one also voted against this proposal to bring it to the table. Ladies and gentlemen, hit your chest. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: You criticize everything.]] You are accusing us of things that we can do in the future without any basis for doing so, but you are taking actions that are in harmony with those slogans that you are waging on a daily basis. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: This is an agreement?]] You're accusing this as an apparent democracy, et cetera, et cetera. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose: more concrete, less demagogy. [[Applause]] Mrs Golbik from Modern. Again, the publication of the sentence and the oath. I've already told you about that. [[Voice from the room: More details.]] Then the Member also asks: Why three candidates for president? That's what they're proposing to the applicant to give the president the opportunity to choose the best candidate. You might as well have asked before. And why would there be two candidates, why not one? At that time, you did not resent the fact that the General Assembly of the Constitutional Tribunal was to present two candidates to the President in accordance with previous laws. You didn't resent the fact that the president was left here so free that he of the two candidates could choose one. Then why are you outraged that now the general assembly will present three candidates? In all this, you have to keep some logic. Mr Gryglas spoke about the President's agreement to the expiry of his mandate. Here the Member is tearing his clothes apart, that it is unacceptable, etc., etc. I'll tell you what. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The 11th draft law shall specify the grounds for the expiry of the mandate. The termination of the mandate as a result of a sentence of imprisonment of a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal by a disciplinary court has indeed been subject to the President's consent in our proposal. This solution corresponds to the article. 126th Constitution in which the Constitutional legislature entrusted the President with the task of upholding the Constitution. It also relates to the statutory position of the President of the Republic as the subject of the taking of the oath from the person elected as Judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. The President by law becomes the guarantor of such a judge's behaviour according to law and ethics. The President's agreement to terminate the mandate as a result of a ruling by a disciplinary court is also intended to guarantee additional protection for a judge who could be expelled from the service with an abuse of law. This solution is also intended to offset the absence of a right to appeal against a ruling by a disciplinary court. You will admit that the right to be erased serves every citizen. Why shouldn't the judge serve the Constitutional Tribunal? If there's no cassation here, then we suggest at least let the president say yes. But I would add that in the event of such a situation, the general assembly... [[Mr Kamil Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Then bring in the cassation, not the President's consent.]] ...is asking the president to do so by resolution. So the president can't do anything about himself if the general assembly of the tribunal doesn't ask him to. Such a standard was not the subject of an assessment by the Venice Commission. The Commission, ladies and gentlemen, has criticised in the December novel the dependence of the end of the mandate on the approval of the Sejm. However, the standard of the President's consent in this respect is a generally accepted European standard. The State refers to the experience of Western democracy, and I would add that the relevant standard § The 105th Federal Law on the Constitutional Court shows that the disciplinary decision of the Federal Constitutional Court is merely an authorisation for the President of the Federal Republic of Germany to remove the Judge of the Constitutional Tribunal from office. So this solution, which we propose, firstly, increases the guarantees of judicial independence, secondly, is consistent with the solutions applied in countries to which patterns so often after all You're appealing, too. Mr Wolf says it's a game of appearances, asking when the PiS will end with it, etc. It's hard to relate to that, because these are accusations that are completely unsubstantiated and unsubstantiated. Mr Mirosław Suchoń of Modern times repeats this mantra - judgment and oath. Mr Mirosław Pampuch of Modern is accusing us - it is again this suspicion that I spoke about earlier - that we want to lead the judges elected by the PiS to insidiously judge. Ladies and gentlemen, we demand that the law be observed. Show me, therefore, on the basis of which the President of the Court of First Instance, Prof. Rzepliński, allows one judge to rule and does not allow the other. Can you identify a legal provision that authorizes him to do so? There's no such rule. There is therefore a clear violation of the law by the President of the Constitutional Tribunal. [[And why isn't Mrs. Kempa printing?]] In addition, the President of the Constitutional Tribunal also assumes some kind of responsibility, since there are judges in the Court who receive remuneration and do not testify to work, because that is his will. Once again, I ask the question: Under what law does the President of the Constitutional Tribunal not allow judges to work? Katarzyna Osos from the Civic Platform: Do you think we're idiots? I would never have dared to say that, Commissioner, even by a natural and acknowledged courtesy. Mr Grzegorz Furgo from Modern: Is it true that we will change the electoral order? Perhaps, ladies and gentlemen, perhaps. But certainly towards an increase in democratic standards. And in what direction do we want to change? We showed this by presenting projects that were rejected by the Civic Platform in the previous term. We offered more transparency at the time. If you do not remember, I will remind you at least some of the proposals: camera, transparent urns, etc. We offered... [[They're transparent.]] ...things that ensure the transparency of the celebration of democracy, because elections are a celebration of democracy, you can say, the basis of all democracy. And we really attach importance to transparency, transparency of elections. If we're suspected of evil intent, it's completely unsubstantiated. And let me repeat: it was my group, perhaps the only group in power over the years, that asked for the resolution of parliament - it took such a resolution - and submitted to the assessment of the sovereign. Why are you always so suspicious of us? [[Do it again.]] Appreciate what we've done, and don't judge what we're supposed to do, and it's only in the realm of your fantasy. [[One smart thing you've done.]] Mr Konwiński carries out analogies, which I am ashamed to recall at all, he uses a language, to put it mildly, non-parlamental. But if he's talking about a thief, then I'm thinking about it, too. You say: compromise, yes, but the basis is the preservation of these achievements which the Civic Platform has achieved through the assassination of the Constitutional Tribunal. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, This can't be right. And in this respect, I agree with Mr Konwiński. If someone stole something, they have to give it back. The previous parliament, I will use the same wording, stole five judges from the future parliament. [[Two.]] He's become a member of the future parliament. I'm not going to develop it. [[Voice from the room: Easy to count.]] Two is what the Constitutional Court said... [[Don't lie to me.]] ...and I'm talking consciously about five and I'm not lying. [[You're lying.]] On 9 October, you elected five judges, knowing that there were parliamentary elections on 25 October, knowing that the term of office of judges ended in November and two in December. So the first three and the next two terms of office ended after the parliamentary elections. It's worth remembering. Mr Meysztowicz says: Why isn't the citizens' project based today? Why do you say that? [[Because I heard the Member yesterday.]] Why do you say that? And if you care so much about the citizens' project that it is not a base, why did you today vote against this project to debate, so that it would not be on the agenda? [[You're the ones bragging.]] If we're talking about hypocrisy, about lying, you can see that on the basis of concrete facts, I'm able to show it. Elizabeth Stępień: Why do you want the Constitutional Court to identify cases in order? Ladies and gentlemen, because we want to sort things out. It cannot be that citizens have waited for years to resolve certain matters, and other cases have been dealt with as soon as possible at the discretion of the President. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: This is how it should be. There are urgent and less urgent matters.]] Such a solution, as the Venice Commission also points out in its opinion, is acceptable. It was critical of the fact that the December amendment may not have been too flexible and therefore the Venice Commission, without questioning the principle of order, did not see the need for certain exceptions which would allow the Constitutional Court in urgent situations to identify cases without order. We just applied this mechanism. The mechanism for identifying cases by order is applied in Western democracies to varying degrees. Thus, the Venice Commission did not question the principle of order as such, but merely perceived the need for some flexibility and the possibility for the Constitutional Tribunal to rule outside the order in specific situations. We came up against it, ladies and gentlemen, it is worth not to miss it, I emphasized it, but perhaps during my previous speech some were tired, I admit, it was indeed a long one, but I thought I would avoid the questions in this way. This flexible solution allows the Constitutional Tribunal to recognize this law, which I hope the High House will accept, in the absence of order. He will be able to recognize the Constitutional Court Act outside the order. So we are facing these demands that you have made, and we are also taking into account the suggestions made by the European Commission, the Venice Commission. Mr Adam Szłapka from Modern Again repeats that in December you led to a crisis. We did not lead to a crisis in December because the tribunal already admitted that the constitution was broken in June 2015. Is it true that the rulings of the tribunal are final? [[Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus: There they are.]] They're final, of course they are. We do not question this, but I have told you because you are talking about final decisions in the context of not publishing the position of 9 March. I've already said why not. It doesn't have the merit of the sentence. There's no merit in the sentence. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not enough to put a robe on, hang a chain around your neck and say, "Now I'm going to judge." We must act under the law and within the limits of the law. And the tribunal on 9 March did not act on the basis of law and within the limits of law. No one saw 13 judges behind the judge's table at the time. [[Applause]] Mr Killion Munyama does not raise specifics, but he asks, at least I have noted why PiS wants to plunge the country. No, it's not. PiS strives for Poland to be a sovereign and subjective country on the international stage, [[Applause]] that the Constitution and the applicable legal order are respected in Poland. For the Constitutional Tribunal to function in the manner to which it was obliged by law and constitution, constitution and laws. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz: Mr President promised whether he had fulfilled his promises. Of course I do. He cannot comply with demands that involve a violation of the Constitution. He can't swear on judges who, first of all, haven't been legally elected... [[Voices from the O.R.: Stayed. They stayed.]] ...and can't take an oath when the tribunal is fully filled. Mr Sławomir Nitras says completely against the facts that the crisis was caused by the PiS. No, sir, that's your fellow Members... [[Don't judge what I'm saying. Answer the question.]] ...in the media, Mr Budka spoke about it, Mr Kropiwnicki spoke about it. Yes, it was our mistake - they said this in the context of the ruling of the Constitutional Court stating that you had broken the constitution then, so it is good that this truth and this knowledge were not foreign to the Member either. Which is already our project, asks Mr Nitras. Agreed, after breaking the constitution by the reminded political groups, we have made a great deal of effort over the current term of office to resolve this conflict. We've put forward two draft laws, and now we're proposing a third. We presented the proposal with the mouth of President Jarosław Kaczyński, with the mouth of Prime Minister Beata Szydło, showing a far-reaching understanding of the opposition's expectations. Without going deep, you rejected these projects. [['Cause we've got most of it at last.]] It was about why the sentence wasn't published. I already told you that. Mr Marchewka asked what was behind the word "compromise," why political sham - I quote Mr Marchewka's words. Again, as you can see, there are no facts to confirm such general terms. I'm used, ladies and gentlemen, to the fact that, if you don't have legal arguments, factual arguments, you operate in general, you operate in insults, and you end up hitting the applicant's representative with wicked methods. Ladies and gentlemen, it's time for reflection. I am firmly convinced that we, ladies and gentlemen, can calm down a bit of emotion. I propose to the High House: let us abandon what has happened in the past if we want to move forward at this point. Personally, I don't want to rip out the causes of the conflict anymore, but let's build on how to solve this conflict. There is no doubt that there is a need for will, the goodwill of all political groups. And for this good will, ladies and gentlemen, I appeal. I think we've already given proof that we're ready to take a step backwards. [[Voice from the hall: What about the sovereign?]] We have given up certain provisions that you considered strict in the December amendment. We went back, we liberalized. We have taken into account the suggestions from the Venice Commission, and we have taken into account the suggestions from the European Commission's opinion. There was also a question of what happened to the team appointed by you, Marshal Kuchciński, led by Professor Majchrowski. Of course it is, because today the work on this law begins and does not end. There will be a position of an expert team, of course we will take this position into account during further work, further proceding the Constitutional Court Act. Ladies and gentlemen, we must finally realise that this conflict, which is, must be resolved. I don't recall who it is anymore. guilty, earlier in the questions I referred to this, I would like to forget it personally, let's move forward. This conflict does not serve Poland, it does not serve the Polish people. Nor does it serve the record of today's opposition to heat up this conflict, nor does it serve to complain about foreign powers. [[Who invited the Venice Commission?]] Ladies and gentlemen, time for reflection, time for reflection. Let's cool off our emotions because emotions aren't a good advisor. Let's take a step forward together. I think that if we meet with a concerted opposition approach, it will benefit the country, it will gain the nation, but I am also sure, and I am honest with you that it will gain opposition, which will not be a total opposition, but will prove to be a constructive opposition. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u390	Thank you. You have come forward on the basis of a corrigendum. Please, Mr Sławomir Nitras, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u391	Thank you, Marshal. The Member misunderstood me, I mean, I think he's confused me with someone because he said I called him a prosecutor. I did not call you a prosecutor, but if I have ever used you at your address, and that is the point of my speech, the term "procurator" is, of course, not to stress your legal achievements and your role as a legal authority, just to remind you that you were a prosecutor during the martial law period, that you were a member not only of the Polish United Workers' Party during the martial law period, when decent people threw party cards, but you were a member of the PZPR enforcement in court, the PZPR enforcement in court, that you stood in the way of a man named Antoni Pikula, and you prepared an indictment against him in the martial state in which you accused him of collaborating illegal publications, unpublished publications. [[That's not true.]] I'm talking about it all because it's something extremely insolent. [[♪ The bell ♪]] referring to its legal authority. And the fact that you are attacking the Constitutional Tribunal in free Poland is merely proof of what I said earlier that Servivism...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u392	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u393	...to every regime is your feature in all times. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u394	Mrs Barbara Dolniak, Modern. [[Mr. Marshal, please, I must refer to this.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u395	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Just a little bit. I have talked about this, but as you can see, the Member is resistant to facts and arguments. I was demoted at war from the district attorney's attorney's office to the district attorney for refusing to conduct political investigations. Later, I was being bullied by delegations. I didn't accuse any of the opponents. And with regard to you, whose name you mentioned here, please ask the Institute of National Remembrance for a hearing. You'll see a completely different name, not mine. And I always refer to facts, not words. [[You manipulate them.]] I didn't accuse anyone in a state of war for political activity. That's why my life was hard at the time, and after 1990 I was also attacked by the Democratic Left Alliance. I respect you. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr Święcicki. I understand everything because we're people who were born at a certain time. But it is also a kind of hypocrisy that you remind me of certain things, and in the case of your colleagues - because it is not just about your Member, but about other colleagues - you do not mention their names. You don't mention in this context...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u396	Mr President, if you don't mind...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u397	...Mr. Prof. Rzepliński. I advise you to keep your temper in all this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u398	Gentlemen, this is a debate about the Court, not about Mr Peterovich's past. Please, Mrs Barbara Dolniak, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u399	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr President, it's for the rapporteur - you didn't listen to me or pretend to be listening, and you certainly didn't listen to what the marshal from your club said, that we were discussing all three projects. The truth is, the Law and Justice are not going to discuss the Court with anyone. You are not interested in the opinion of the European Commission, you are talking about pseudo-decision. The draft law by Law and Justice is intended to enable the court to publish its judgment, which is not a judgment for you. This publication has, in your opinion, historical meaning - so you say. If we're gonna go to court for a historical sentence, it's better not at all, because it's gonna be worth it. Then why don't you take out the courts? In promoting populism, you are unrivalled, but that will not change the fact that we citizens will not fall for it. We want a good law and respect for it, too, and perhaps, above all, by those who exercise power. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So it's worth it. Listen to what is said, Mr President, from this pulpit. [[Applause]] [[We're listening.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u400	Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u401	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, Mr Wassermann misunderstood me because the fact that you will be working on your own project is the information that Mrs Wassermann presented yesterday and not me. That's the first thing. Two. You're talking about compromise. Tell me which elements of these civil projects and the PSL project you found reasonable to work on. [[You're gonna straighten out your words.]] No, because you're not prepared to compromise, no compromise. The only thing coming out of this Seym is your bill that breaks the constitution again. That is not enough, I would like to say that you are lying, because the judgment of the Constitutional Court, which was published, clearly states: three judges elected in June 2015 were elected legally. So you're just lying because they're judges of the Constitutional Court. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u402	Mr Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u403	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I was called here on the occasion of Mr.Peterowicz. I was actually a member of the PZPR, just to remind you that I wasn't chasing any people as prosecutors... [[Me neither.]] ...only I hid them during the martial law at home, that I made available the materials that I had because of my work in various institutions, underground solidarity, so that she could use them, various economic reports. I never said a bad word about the opposition or about the Church during my work, and during the martial law I received an unlimited leave with a ban on coming to work on 13 December. I don't talk about it, I don't like to talk about it, but if my name was mentioned, I wanted to mention it. That is why she supported me very strongly in the 1989 elections and Mazowiecki took me to his government. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u404	I would ask you to reply to the representative of the applicants for the project from print No 569 by Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u405	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is a pity that this debate did not succeed, especially at the end of it, to get away from this tribal thinking, who, who, from these personal disputes. It really doesn't help solve this conflict. You can go a little higher and get away from each other's animosities, which probably won't end, no matter how the Constitutional Court solves the problem. The questions to our project were probably the least. This may mean that there is the least doubt that this is the most consensual project of all. This welcomes and welcomes these good opinions, opinions and a declaration of further work by almost all parliamentary clubs. I'm a little surprised at the Modern Club that he doesn't want to work on one of the opposition clubs' projects, that he's withdrawn his project. How you give up a field, even with doubts... I understand your doubts, for the past six months, the behaviour of the PiS cannot inspire confidence in you, but if we do not make our own proposals, if we do not seek to end this dispute, to create a better law - because a better law is possible - in my opinion we will give up the field. We're gonna give up the field in this whole argument on just one side. That would be bad, too. Somewhere in all this, you have to look for ways to find common denominators. I also see a difference in the voice of the applicant from the PiS and in the club voice, which the club voice found in our project some good arguments - thank you very much - and issues worth considering for the future, even as regards appeal against the judgment. Mr Piotrowicz said that he shares the arguments about the unconstitutionality of certain provisions - I understand that some provisions - our law. This might be a strong argument for us to convince the opposition that, however, this project is in line with the constitution. So I'd like us to be so open... We are open to the citizens' project, and to the Kukiz project, which is being processed, and to the PiS project, we will remember about the Modern project that was hidden, but maybe one day it will be revealed again and you will want to continue working on it. I'd like to resolve the constitutional doubts. Once again, I will return to the subject of the transition to retirement of the 6 judges or voluntary resignation of the function to which they were elected. Well, the best thing would be the second solution. A gentleman's agreement, for which we would not have to use the bill, would probably be the best, but legal certainty requires us to write it down in the bill. Sometimes you have to open yourself up in this dispute, which is a legal and political dispute. The solution must take place on the basis of the Constitution, but it must be preceded by a political compromise. The political compromise requires, and here I agree with these many statements, concessions both on the one hand and on the other hand or moving forward. And I'd prefer that version-- moving forward together, that gives you a chance to solve it. There are no simple solutions. I mean, the simplest ones would be those that are by nature very obvious, but we see that there is no chance for them today. So we need to look for those that may have seemed impossible to us yesterday, but will lead to normality, also to a sense of peace, peace and prestige of outside Poland, rebuilding the prestige of external Poland. That's what we should all care about. I would not like, and I would like to repeat this once again, that the ricochet of these changes that have taken place in Poland, and the lack of the possibility to exit them, as the Venice Commission is calling for, as is being discussed with the European Commission, is reflected on the Polish European funds, on the Polish portfolio of the European Fund. As regards issues relating to the appeal, this is a new formula, so it needs to be tried as a complement, and a greater opportunity for the Sejm and the tribunal to comment on the case. This does not change the fact that judgments are final, but I have given this example of constitutional compliance. The Court finds it compatible with the Constitution, we find out about the facts that there was a violation of the law when adopting this law, so there is certainly room to ask questions again, because they did not have the judges of the tribunal to know how this law was adopted, whether there was a breach of the law at the time of its adoption, they did not have that knowledge before. As they possess this knowledge, they can change their mind about many elements of this law. Ladies and gentlemen, in seeking a common solution, we will also expect good work on our projects. This, of course, always depends to the greatest extent on the parliamentary majority. The pace of work is important too. The NATO summit is coming up. I understand that you would also like to say at the NATO Summit and in front of representatives of different countries that this stage of difficult situation, chaos or constitutional dispute, constitutional disorder has ended. So it is not worth to close today, on the one hand and on the other hand, either from opposition clubs or from the PiS club, saying that something is so unconstitutional that no further work can be done on it. I am particularly speaking to those who often refer to the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal, because only the tribunal is able to pronounce that it is incompatible with the Constitution, not the Member, not the outstanding person with great legal experience, not the legal authority. It is possible to express your opinion, of course, so let us stress that these were your opinions on this project. We, too, have the views of constitutionalists on the compatibility of this project with the constitution. Here our opinions will clash, but the only instance in Poland authorized to rule on constitutionality is the Constitutional Tribunal. And we bring this law with great care, with the best of our knowledge, with the greatest reliability and kindness that we can show in these difficult moments of constitutional dispute to all political groups, as well as to all, and perhaps above all, above all, to our fellow countrymen who strive, call for the conclusion of this dispute. They're calling for us to start talking. Let us stop with this language and tribal thinking, who, let us open ourselves to various kinds of solutions and also be ready to shift our borders, even in these projects presented today, because there is no room for compromise, which is very limited. As it is very narrow, it will certainly be very difficult to reach this compromise. Thank you all once again for your comments, these critical and these positive conclusions from the declarations on the continuation of our project and other projects. I'm hoping for quick results. Every day you will have to verify and test your intentions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u406	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz, as corrected. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u407	Thank you very much. Mr Marshal, I would like to refer to Mr Meysztowicz's speech, who accused me of lying to the Constitutional Tribunal. Well, you said that the Constitutional Tribunal stated that the judges were legally elected. If you're not a lawyer, I'm not surprised. And if you're a lawyer because I don't know that, then I'm really surprised you don't have any legal knowledge here. But I'll explain. The Constitutional Tribunal is not a court of fact. The Constitutional Tribunal is a court of law. The Constitutional Tribunal did not audit the selection of judges. In order not to be literal, the Constitutional Tribunal issued a decision to terminate the proceedings in this respect, indicating that in the field of competence Constitutional Court [[♪ The bell ♪]] there is no control of individual resolutions of the Sejm, so-called. non-normative. And it's worth it to get to you. You also said that I did not refer to other draft laws. Then, too, the Member has forgotten that I am the representative of the applicants for a specific project. I was presenting a project for which I was attached.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u408	Go ahead and finish it, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u409	It wasn't my job to refer to other projects. That's what my clubmate did.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u410	Mr Pierce, you're very welcome to leave.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u411	I'm done, I'm done, I'm done, I'm done.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u412	You promised two sentences. Go ahead and finish.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u413	And my clubmate noticed some interesting solutions in some projects. And accusing us of not knowing what we're gonna do about it...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u414	Okay, sir, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u415	We'll see. We're gonna be proceding, maybe...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u416	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u417	...we'll take some of the solutions into account. And as for Mr Święcicki, I too...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u418	You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u419	...like him... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...I didn't chase anybody. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u420	Please, sir, we are almost done, we are not going back to the discussion. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the citizens' draft law on the Constitutional Tribunal to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. In the discussion, proposals were made to reject the draft laws contained in prints 558 and 569 at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on these proposals in the voting block. The Public Finance Commission submitted a report on the parliamentary draft law amending the Act amending the Tax Administration Act and the Act amending the Tax Order Act and some other laws. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The competent committees have submitted reports on the Senate resolutions on the laws: - amending the horse racing law, - amending the Act on Export Insurance Guaranteed by the State Treasury and certain other laws. The reports shall be printed in 598 and 599 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 54 (1) (a) 5 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in discussions on these items of the agenda to be heard by the three-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 22 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Labour Code Act (Print No 524). I ask Mrs Joanna Augustynowska to present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u421	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I am pleased to present a draft law amending the Labour Code Act. The proposed amendment aims to extend and harmonise deadlines for employees to appeal to the labour court. For the sake of clarity and conciseness, I would like to point out that, although the proposed amendments to the article. The 264 Labour Code deals with four different situations, namely termination of the employment contract, termination of the employment contract without notice, termination of the employment relationship and refusal of admission to work, and I will discuss them together as rapporteur on account of the identity of the entity and the objectives of the project. I also share the belief that the current diversity of the terms of material law - for short and very short - does not have any justification in today's realities. In 1985, when the article was adopted. 264, the labour courts ruled faster. Ratio legis was based, among others. to assume that the court will be able to deliver a judgment before the termination of the employment relationship and thus settle the conflict situation. In today's reality, unfortunately, it's completely fictional. There is no legal option for this to happen. The proceedings are too long-term. This situation is based on successful attempts to repair, so the premise of the legislator is no longer in place. We are currently dealing with an unjustified variation in the legal situation of workers with whom the contract is terminated in favour of termination. The proposed amendment will eliminate the differentiation of the deadlines contained in the Labour Code depending on the termination procedure. Simplifying the law and increasing its transparency is a very serious added value that we can achieve in parallel with the main objective pursued by the project developers. Art. § 264 § 1 of the Labour Code defines the term of substantive law, not procedural law. Consequently, its expiry results in the loss of the possibility of redress. It shall be taken into account by a court of its own motion, not on a charge, as in the event of limitation. This is an extremely short term for material law. The staff member should not be dependent in so many cases on the goodwill of the court, which may, but may not, restore the deadline on the basis of the article. 265 Labour Code. The unfavorable situation of the employee deepens the amendment of the Civil Procedure Code of 3 May 2012, which speaks of changes. The obvious inability to gather all evidence in most more complex cases results in the risk of omission of claims and evidence submitted by the party at a later stage of the proceeding. Abstracting from legal arguments, such a solution already seems unfair at first glance when an employer who has given notice has two weeks to respond to a lawsuit. Without any legal support and unprepared worker who is often in an emotional state of uproar, he sometimes has twice as much time - sometimes not only to make a decision but also to gather evidence, to select a representative and to formally prepare an action. In the light of the experience of life, a week is a really short time to clean up emotionally after such an experience as losing a job. Let's stand up for ourselves, for example. in the case of an elderly person who is a few years short of retirement age. In the opinion of the Supreme Court, even the initial 14-day period proposed was too short to properly prepare for the action. The proposed amendment is valid in terms of axiology. It increases the protection of the employee - the weaker side of the employment relationship and takes into account non-legal, purely human factors. One of these is the accompanying fear of the loss of work for the ongoing regulation of charges. We know very well how low the savings of the average citizen are. For many of them, especially those with lower qualifications and advanced age, job losses pose a risk of immediate financial problems. In Poland, more than 80% households assess their ability to save any money in a 12-month perspective as negligible or not. The amendment proposed by us is very simple and does not burden the budget in any way. It will benefit the citizen from guaranteeing his right to court. This right has been in harm's way for years, since I would like to remind you that Article. 45 of the Constitution refers to the right to consider the case without undue delay. Regardless of the objective problems affecting the extraordinary length of proceedings (for example, the duration of proceedings from the employment relationship in the first quarter of 2016 at first instance is 313 days, while in the appeal court 90 days) their current duration is unacceptable from the point of view of the needy worker's efficient judicial system. It is worth noting that around 2/3 of the cases before the labour courts end in full or in part with regard to the applicant's claim or the conclusion of a settlement. Most of the lawsuits are therefore completely or partially legitimate. Therefore, since the State has difficulties in fulfilling its obligations properly - because a national obligation to protect it is an integral part of civil law - and ensuring that it is implemented - it is all the more important that the worker should not be given such a short period of time to exercise his rights. However, they have nothing to do with the duration of the proceedings that have been opened for a period of several years. For the first hearing, the plaintiff sometimes waits for more than six months, and at the end of the proceedings before some courts, on average, after several months. The problem I have discussed concerns a very large number of employees. Let us not let them fall victim to political bullying. I ask the entire House, regardless of party membership, to take account of the positive results of the consultations carried out. I would like to remind you here that we have obtained positive opinions from very broad social and professional groups in the course of this project's opinion. In view of the above, I am looking forward to a substantive discussion. I hope that the simplicity of the project will also be correlated with the speed of our proceding over it. The sooner the law is published, the sooner we will cover increased protection of workers, for whom these unfairly short deadlines have not yet completed their course. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u422	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Barbara Bartus, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u423	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It has been my honor to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the parliamentary draft law amending the Labour Code Act in print No 524. The project concerns the extension of the time limits for employees to submit labour law actions relating to the cancellation of a contract of employment, a request for the return to work or compensation and a request for the establishment of a contract of employment. This is the second project submitted by the Modern Club concerning the revision of the article. 264 Labour Code. The previous project, withdrawn in March, concerned only the amendment of § 1. You have proposed that an appeal against termination of the contract of employment may be brought before the labour court within 14 days of the date of service of the letter terminating the contract of employment. Today you are proposing to amend all three paragraphs of this article and extend this period to 30 days. This is progress, but you have not made a deeper review of the Labour Code and e.g. in Article 4, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 112 § 2 you leave the employee with a 14-day time limit for court. The time limit indicated, as well as the time limit in Article. 264, is of the nature of the term of this substantive law. Similarly, Article 2 is replaced by the following: Paragraph 97 (2) shall include a period of 7 days until the application is made to the labour court. I would like to stress that the Labour Code often uses 7- and 14-day terms. I have repeatedly stressed that I am opposed to frequent changes in codes, and I am particularly opposed to changes in individual articles. Codes are special laws. Even the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm provide for a separate way of dealing with draft codes and draft amendments to codes. There is a separate committee to consider draft codes, the first reading of the project takes place at the Sejm meeting and cannot take place earlier than 30 days after delivery of the draft code and the draft amendment of the code. The project to which I have the pleasure of referring on behalf of my parliamentary club concerns one article of the Labour Code, but a new solution, although random, I agree with the applicant, seems to be a positive solution for the workers, although it is not always so that what seems very beneficial to us at first turns out to be so in practice. There is not yet a government position for this project, but it is understandable, because this project actually recently entered the Sejm and the Marshal of the Sejm directed it to first reading in fact at the first possible time. Speaking on behalf of my law and justice club, I support the referral of this project to the committee, and I think that we will wait there for the government's position and proceed with these rules. And I'll be honest with you when I look at the project, I really appreciate the fact that this draft amendment contains transitional provisions, which are usually a problem. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u424	Thank you, Member. I'm ordering a five-minute recess now. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 19 min. 22 hours 19 min 26]] Good morning again. I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 22 of the agenda. I ask for the floor of Mrs Izabela Katarzyna Mrzygłocka. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u425	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present a position regarding the parliamentary draft law amending the Labour Code Act. The project was included in print No 524. It concerns the extension and harmonisation of the time limit within which workers may lodge labour law actions which are directly linked to termination, return to work or compensation and the request for a contract of employment. The current legal status provides for the possibility of appealing the staff member from the time of proper service of the letter terminating the contract of employment within 7 days. This time limit shall be increased if the employee requests payment of compensation or the return to work, or the establishment of a contract of employment, which shall be 14 days. I would like to point out that these provisions were based on and reflected at the time of their adoption. However, this was done in completely different socio-economic and legal conditions. Labour courts were very efficient in resolving their actions, which often ended before the end of the contract of employment. This justified the short time-limits for appeal and did not interfere with the proper course of the proceedings. We are currently observing the chronicity of cases concerning the termination and termination of employment contracts. They may even last a few years, and the time limits for starting a case may be up to six months. This chronic state of affairs with such a short period of time to bring an action before the labour court is clearly unjustified and unacceptable in today's reality. An additional important argument justifying the need to extend this deadline is the fact that there are situations in which employers effectively deliver letters with notice in pre-Christmas periods or before so-called. It's a long weekend. These treatments further complicate the situation of employees. It should be noted that, as a general rule, after amending the provisions of the Civil Procedure Code, all evidence should be reported at the stage of the application. Failure to do so may result in their omission by the courts. In such a legal provision, a period of 7 days is also a gross injustice for an employee. It should also be noted that a staff member who has not complied with a seven-day period can only rely on the recovery by the court on the principles laid down in Article. 265 Labour Code. In conclusion, there are no obvious grounds for justifying the legal difference in the case of workers who have been terminated for termination and workers with whom the contract of employment has been terminated without notice or where the contract of the employee has expired and who have been refused admission to work. It should therefore be considered that the current 7-day time limit for lodging an appeal against termination of the contract of employment is too short and unduly weakens the position of the worker vis-à-vis the employer. On the other hand, the above arguments address to a large extent all the time limits provided for in Article. 264 Labour Code - including the previous 14-day period - therefore applicants propose uniform extension to 30 days, which will benefit workers' rights. The draft law does not give rise to additional financial implications for the state budget or for local government units. Introduction of the transitional provision in Article. 2 aims to remove doubts as to the impact of the new rules on relations arising before the existing provisions. The Act also applies to the conditions arising before the date of entry into force of the Act if, of course, the deadlines provided for in the current wording of the article have not yet expired. 264. Therefore, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club requests that the project be directed to further work in the Committee on Changes in Codification. Of course, there may still be some additional provisions that need to be changed, but that's all I think we'll do in the process of working in the Committee on Changes in Codification and the Permanent Sub-Committee on Labour Code. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u426	Thank you very much, Member. I will ask Mr Jarosław Porwich to speak on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u427	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club, I have the honour to present my position on the draft law amending the Labour Code Act. The proposed amendment harmonises the time limits for the recovery of claims by employees by introducing a 30-day time limit for: appeal against termination of the contract of employment; request for the return to work or compensation in the event of termination of the contract of employment without termination or termination of the contract of employment; request for the establishment of a contract of employment. So the change concerns the whole article. 264 Labour Code. In the view of Kukiz15, the draft amendment of the law is as desirable and meets the expectations of the employees. The current deadlines, 7-day and 14-day terms, are too short to implement the labour rights. There are cases of dismissal by courts, for example. appeals against statements only due to failure to comply with the deadline for their submissions. The employee may then in no other way or proceedings rely on the unlawful termination of the employment contract as a condition for compensation claims provided for in the Civil Code. It was just too short a time limit that sanctioned - often illegal - the employer's termination of the employment relationship, prevented the compensation due, or blocked legitimate demands for the establishment of an employment contract. The employee therefore has a strict, extremely short time limit for the recovery of his claims, i.e. the time limit for referring the case to a court of law. If the staff member does not bring an action before the court in due time, all his claims shall be extinguished. In conclusion, the introduction of a uniform 30-day deadline allows an employee in a situation that is highly stressful for him due to the loss of his job, proper preparation for the trial, gathering evidence and taking the advice of a professional attorney: lawyer or legal counsel. This gives the worker much greater comfort when it comes to finding himself in a new and unfavorable situation and does not hit the employer, but only extends the time to exercise his rights. The Poselski Kukiz Club15 welcomes this draft amendment to the Labour Code Act. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u428	Thank you very much, sir. And to speak on behalf of the Modern Club, I would like to ask Mr Mirosław Suchon. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u429	Thank you. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! To begin with, I would like to briefly remind the ratio legis of the proposed revision of the Labour Code. There is no doubt that the time limit laid down for an employee to pursue claims for questioning the termination of the employment relationship laid down in Article. The 264 Code is extremely short. Under this provision, an employee may appeal against the employer within 7 days of the service of the notice of termination of employment. Such regulation dates back to 1985 and has not been amended since, despite numerous systemic changes, also in the socio-economic sphere. The employee is obliged not only to write a letter in just a few days to claim, but also from 3 May 2012, as a result of the amendment, to submit any evidence at the same time, as the subsequent notification may result in the failure of the court. The obligations imposed on the employee are therefore high and require time, especially when it is taken into account that the employee is a weaker party to the legal relationship of the employer - the employee and needs more time to get through the thicket of regulations and prepare in substance to defend his interests. Moreover, compared with the overall deadline for the courts to deal with labour law matters between a few and a dozen months, this 7-day deadline in our assessment is indeed extremely short. It is also worth emphasising that it is not enough that the deadline in Article. 264 The Labour Code is burdensome for workers, it is also a sanction for failing to comply with the statutory deadline, after all, so short, it is harmful and disproportionately severe to the consequences that workers may suffer. 7-day period from Article. 264 The Labour Code is considered a term of substantive law. This, of course, means that, as a rule, there is no possibility for a worker to apply for a recovery period. Therefore, the court dismisses the action and there is no longer a need to consider the validity and legality of the reasons for the termination of the employment contract. In order to illustrate the problem, I will present some statistics on the example of last year. In 2015, 9660 cases relating to termination of the employment contract were brought before the regional court, 4630 concerning termination of the employee's employment contract, and 66 concerning the establishment of employment and compensation. 2951 of these cases, that's almost, ladies and gentlemen, 21% , has been dismissed by the court, including to a large extent because of the lack of justification for the time limit being exceeded. The extension of the deadline for workers to appeal may contribute to reducing the number of remote cases and increasing the effectiveness of the exercise of their rights by workers. The Labour Code is generally considered to be a more favourable instrument for workers and guaranteeing their protection at a high level. According to a study carried out by the OECD on the rigour of regulations in the protection of workers in 2013, Poland has a above-average level of protection of workers. In comparison, the lowest level of this protection is guaranteed by law by the United States, while Portugal guarantees the highest level of protection. In conclusion, Polish labour law is adopted with a visible trend in favour of employees. Although labour law should be flexible and balanced, also taking into account the interests of the employer, there is no doubt that, on this issue, the worker should have a longer period to analyse his legal situation and to prepare his argument fairly with the employer. This change is therefore necessary in order to ensure greater protection of workers' rights. Of course, the Modern Posel Club will support this bill. We request that this draft be sent to the committee's deliberations. I think that from your House there will come a law that will actually respond to such very basic needs of employees in Poland. On the other hand, on this occasion, on the basis of the fact that I have a few seconds left, I would also like to appeal to the Minister, the Government, to establish a new law on trade unions. We all agree that there are provisions in the present law that need to change, the economic and social situation changes, and there are pathologies that we all agree on. We've even discussed this subject and taken the opportunity that [[♪ The bell ♪]] We are talking about this issue, and we are appealing to the Minister for speeding up his work in that area. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u430	Thank you very much. I would ask Mr Krystian Jarubas to speak on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u431	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I am pleased to present my position towards the parliamentary draft law amending the Labour Code Act, print no. 524. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, we have come to live in difficult times, in times of so-called. a good change which many workers have already experienced. This supposedly-good change in many institutions, offices or even public media is based on the principle of mass layoffs of people who either worked in the opinion of the new authorities for too long, because a dozen or even dozen years, or directly - do not have a party card of PiS, so they must lose their job. [[But are you sure?]] However, many independent experts have a chance to fight for their rights in court. As we know, more and more people must enjoy this privilege. All the more so, the proposed novel, which aims to extend and harmonise the time limits for employees to submit labour law actions relating to dismissal, return to work or compensation and to seek a contract of employment, seems justified and worth supporting. After the change of regulations, the employee will receive more time for e.g. use of the assistance of a professional proxy. It will strengthen the staff member himself as parties to an investigation against unjustified or inconsistent termination. In view of the positive assessment of the proposal by the State Labour Inspection, the PSL Club will support the proposed solutions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u432	Thank you very much. I ask Mr Ireneus to speak on behalf of the Freedom and Solidarni Circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u433	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the draft law amending the Labour Code Act. The proposed amendment of the Labour Code aims to extend and harmonise the time limits for employees to submit labour law actions relating to dismissal, return to work or compensation and to request a contract of employment. It should be assessed that the proposal is moving in the right direction. It leads not only to improving the procedural position of workers who are party to labour disputes, but also to enhancing the sense of social justice, equality with the law and confidence of citizens in the institutions of the state. Currently, the Labour Code in Article. 264 provides that the staff member may appeal against termination of the contract of employment to the labour court within only 7 days of the date on which the letter terminating the contract of employment was delivered to him. This is a very short time limit which often prevents an employee, who is a weaker party to the dispute, from submitting an appeal within that time limit. The employer has the right to collect evidence longer than a fired employee who has only 7 days to prepare the appeal. It could be risked to say that this provision limits citizens' right to court to some extent. In the event of a request for return to work or compensation and of a request for a contract of employment, the time limit laid down in the Labour Code shall now be 14 days, respectively, from the date of receipt of the relevant notices or from the date of expiry of the contract of employment. These terms are twice as long and, given the certainty of legal trading, seem sufficient. Therefore, it is not justified to extend these deadlines. The proposed amendments provide for the harmonisation of all the deadlines provided for in Article. 264 Labour Code and lengthening them up to 30 days. In our view, it will be sufficient to align the time limits for employees to submit labour law actions relating to dismissal, return to work or compensation and to require that a contract of employment be established for up to 14 days. This will align the rights of the parties to the dispute with the employment relationship. The position of workers and employers should not be differentiated. Consequently, all parties to a judicial dispute should have equal rights, as all citizens are equal to the law. Members of the Members of the Free and Solidarni Circle request that the bill be submitted for further work in the Sejm committees. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u434	Thank you very much. Six people were included in the list of Members who were enrolled in the task. Does anyone else want to ask a question? I can't see, so I'm closing the list. I ask Małgorzata Płępek from the Civic Platform club to ask the first question. Time - one and a half minutes. Member, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u435	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The extension to 30 days of the period during which an appeal may be lodged against the exemption decision is favourable from a time point of view. An employee or his attorney won't have to rush to file a pleading. However, workers' environments point to a more severe problem with redundancies. It is mainly about the waiting time for the trial, the long duration of court proceedings, which sometimes last even a few years. Sometimes there are situations where an employee who wins in court with an employer and is to be restored to work has no place to go, because the organizational unit in which he worked has been terminated. The proposed amendments to the Act will in no way improve this situation. So will the Members of the applicant undertake to find solutions to address these problems? Because really, this proposed change doesn't work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u436	Thank you very much. And another question - Mrs Barbara Bartus, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u437	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Like I said in my club speech, there's no government position for this. But I have a question as to whether there is already a position in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. My next question concerns the number of cases that would have been affected by the extension of this time to refer the case to court. Is the number of cases in which persons have not been able to file their pleadings to the court within the time limit? Is the number of cases known when the time limit had been restored or when the court refused to renew the time limit for bringing such an action before the court? Did the labour inspection, which also gave a positive opinion on this project, inform the Ministry about such cases? My next question concerns a wider problem. Has a codification committee been set up at the Ministry now, or is work being done, will work on deeper amendments to the Labour Code, or are there any amendments planned, or maybe, after so many years, work on the new Labour Code? Did the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, once again, undertake some work on deeper [[♪ The bell ♪]] Changes to the Labour Code? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u438	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Wojciech Kossakowski, also by the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u439	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Not every employer, when he terminates his contract, acts maliciously, e.g. before a long weekend, as can be read in the explanatory memorandum to the proposed bill. The idea itself is right, but what about the workers who consciously avoid such a document, thereby blocking their employment and putting their employer at risk? I agree that the 7-day deadline may not be sufficient, but we need to address the issue in a comprehensive way. Does the proposed 30-day deadline result from consultation with the social side? Apart from the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Bureau, no other documents were attached. Does this mean that there was no consultation with employees and employers? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u440	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Lidia Gądek, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u441	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In full support of the draft law that is not in line with the current realities of the Labour Code, as discussed in this item. In Poland, both private and public entities are increasingly used to making job layoffs in an unworthy, arrogant way, and it happens that they are vulgar. In particular, I mean situations where termination of the employment contract is handed over at the last working hour right before the so-called. a long weekend or a holiday season. A short time to bring a lawsuit against the employer puts the latter in a privileged position. For my part, I would like to draw the attention of the Members of the applicants, it is also kind of a question and a suggestion that perhaps not extending the time limit for filing a lawsuit will be the best option, although it is worth considering, and an obligation for the employer to announce the termination of his employment contract within a period of time, for example. 1 week. The employee will have the time and tools to effectively prepare his defence line while continuing his work to date. Just an extension of the time limit to file a lawsuit, yes, is necessary, but it may not produce the expected results for reasons already mentioned here by the previous speakers. I hope that my proposal will be subject to constructive consideration if we succeed in proceding [[♪ The bell ♪]] That project I'm hoping for. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u442	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u443	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The Parliamentary draft law extending the time limits for employees to bring labour law actions relating to dismissal, return to work and the application for a contract of employment is very much needed, especially at present. It is now in the context of a good change that workers are fired by new bosses, these phenomena occur very often, ranging from ministries to local companies. From this tribune examples of such activities have been given many times, I will remind you of the tragic effects of personal changes in the flagship Polish studs. My question: What is the government's position on this project? Second question: Is the Ministry working towards deeper changes in the Labour Code? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u444	Thank you very much. The last question will be asked by Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u445	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In terms of the text of this bill, I would like to remind you that I have been in contact with dismissals recently, with cases of dismissal before Christmas, this is indeed a special way of relationship between an employee and an employer. I strongly support this direction of legal change. However, I would like to know whether the applicant has requested an opinion from the trade unions. It would certainly be a positive opinion and support this project. Thank you so much for this initiative. I would like to address one sentence to Mrs Navels about this question, which also referred to the situation in the judiciary. There is no code of work for this matter. A major reform of the labour justice system needs to be put in place. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Once there was a rule that because labour law was supposed to balance this inequality between the position of employer and employee, labour courts were rather defending the employee, today it is the other way around. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u446	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. So please take the floor of the representative of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Secretary of State Stanisław Swed. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u447	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The government's posts for the parliamentary draft amendment to the Labour Code Act do not exist, we have prepared the position of our Ministry. This position is positive when it comes to changes, although this is not the topic that is the most important today when it comes to the changes that have been made regarding the Labour Code. I will answer Mrs Barbara Bartus' question immediately. We want the Extraordinary Commission on Change in the Labour Code to begin work from 1 September. This decision has already been made, and at the next meeting of the Council of Ministers there will be a special resolution setting up an emergency committee. We want to get back to working on new labour codes. We believe that the 1974 Code needs to be amended, and in 2006 the codification committee concluded, which prepared two draft laws on the Labour Code, individual labour relations and collective labour relations, but there was no further work. We want to reinstate the codification committee in a slightly different composition. The codification committee will consist of both social representatives and government experts. We will try to prepare new solutions for the Labour Code. It is certainly a good thing that the various proposals that are being made here would be dealt with as part of the new proposals. The question of extending the time limit for appealing is important, but it is perhaps more important, as the Member also pointed out, that the labour courts deal with labour cases. This is, I think, the main problem we're facing: the labour law judiciary. It's worth thinking about. In general, we are in favour, although I do not hide that there is a proposal from the Ministry that this deadline should be harmonised at a slightly different level: 14 days, not 30 days. We believe that a period of 14 days would be optimal, but of course we are open. It is a parliamentary project, not subject to public consultation, but it is worth submitting it to the social side, i.e. trade unions and employers, so that they can comment on it, because these matters generally concern them. Of course, I will not address this issue, but I am always surprised at what I say when it comes to making a statement. There is no Mr Jarubas, but his comments to these projects are always very interesting and varied when it comes to commenting on individual solutions. So, in general, we are in favour of examining this project in committee, in consultation with the social partners. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u448	Thank you very much, Minister. I would ask the applicant's representative, Mrs Joanna Augustynowska, to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u449	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Thank you very much for the positive adoption of this bill. [[Voice from the room: Not so scary.]] By referring to the content, I will explain why 30 days has been written, because this is a key issue. In the initial work on the project, we were thinking about equalizing the situation of the employee and the employer, so we proposed in the original version, print No 307, period of 14 days. Since we want to base the law on consultation, even though it is a parliamentary bill, we have put it to consultation. One of the opinions we have received along with the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office is the opinion of the Supreme Court suggesting that the 14-day deadline may be too short compared to the rules that apply in the European Union under European Union directives. It was suggested that this date should range from 30 days to 3 months. Of course, the first impression was that these three months seemed absolutely... It's like it's not the designers' idea of a term like that. The idea was to settle the matter and resolve the conflict between the employer and the employee as soon as possible. We asked, of course, for an opinion - which we did not have to do - trade unions as well as other institutions. All these opinions are available, I can also share them, these are positive opinions. There is also a positive opinion of the Supreme Court, which states that this is acceptable in this version and in this formula. All the comments have been taken into account, so in my opinion we have done as fully as possible, but of course we are open and I think that during the committee work we will be able to sit down and clarify the rules. Besides, I would be happy to pass on the views obtained in the context of the public consultation so that you can get acquainted with them. I hope that these matters can be resolved together. As the Minister has already mentioned, the problem is not really the time limit for filing a notice, but the length of court proceedings. And that's a separate subject. As a member of the Labour Protection Council, I know that changes in the Labour Code are being prepared. From our experience and from the consultations carried out, there is a high demand from both employers and employees, so we will be happy to join the work on this large project, because the Labour Code is a big issue. On the other hand, I hope that this project, this slight change, will be the beginning of good changes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u450	Thank you very much, Member. The discussion is closed. Marshal of the Sejm, based on art. 87. 2 in conjunction with Article. 90. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, directs the parliamentary draft law amending the Labour Code Act, contained in print No.524, to the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications for consideration. We proceed with the examination of item 23. of the agenda: First reading of the civil draft law amending the Law of 7 September 2007 on the functioning of hard coal mining (print No 461). I welcome the representatives of the mining industry gathered at the gallery. [[Applause]] Greetings. I am very pleased, especially since I am also from this region, or Zagłębia. [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] I hope you will be interested in listening to this part of the debate. I ask the representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee of Mr Wacław Cherkawski to present the reasons for the bill. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u451	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Colleagues of the miners! Retired people! I have the honour on behalf of the Trade Union of Miners in Poland and all trade unions that helped to collect signatures, as well as mining pensioners who actively participated in the collection of 100,000. signatures, present a citizens' bill amending the Act of 7 September 2007 on the functioning of coal mining. The project has been submitted in accordance with the provisions of Article. Paragraph 7 2, Article Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 and Article 2 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European The project is: Art. 1. In the Act of 7 September 2007 on the Functioning of Coal Mining (Journal of Laws No. OJ 2007 No 1192, p. 1379, as amended.) Article 1 is amended as follows: 1. In paragraph 13, paragraph 13 is replaced by the following: 1 the following point 4 is inserted after point 3: '4) of the former mining worker or mining establishment who had the power to a coal depot on the basis of the provisions in force so far, and these powers have been removed or suspended by decision of the Boards of Coal Companies. ' 2. 30a is replaced by the following: 'Article. 30a Benefits referred to in Article. 12.14, the tasks referred to in Article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Article 2 and Article 2 Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and liquidation as referred to in Article. Article 8a (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 3 are financed by a budget grant.' Art. 2. The Act enters into force on 1 January 2016 and here I must immediately explain where the already noticeable legislative error came from, namely that we refer to the article. The 13 that are gone. It so happened that I brought the bill to the Sejm on 22 December in the mornings, and the project was referring just to the law on the operation of hard coal mining even before the changes, which took place on 22 December, only in the afternoons. I was in the Seym at the time, and I was personally a witness when the bill was amended. Unfortunately, the rules are very strict and we couldn't do anything here. We had no room for manoeuvre to change this article of our project, and just a small, cosmetic change would be enough. Instead of art. 13 we're going to talk about art. 12 that exists. This is to be done in the Parliamentary Committee, which is why at the end I will ask for our bill to be proceded on the Parliamentary Committee, because there is no fault here that these articles do not agree. It's just a coincidence. Things like this happen, but I think it's easy to do. Now I'm going to get to the bottom of this. Where did the idea of amending the bill even come from? The coal depot as the entitlement of former workers of coal mining functioned in Poland already in the pre-war period and was treated as one of the essential elements of the pension of a pensioner or mining pensioner. Unfortunately, in recent years, the management of individual mining companies has resulted in a significant loss of this power. Each company regulated the right to a coal depot individually, resulting in a great diversity of this right. Thus, in February 2014, the Coal Company deprived pensioners, miners and other persons of their powers to do so. Katowice Holding Węglowy SA in November 2014 suspended the right to free coal, including for pensioners, for a period of 3 years, for the years 2015. Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa SA said to pensioners and rencistom coal depot. Bogdanka SA - pensioners and pensioners continue to receive a coal depot. 11.5,000. Retirement and Rentists from the coal mines continue to receive a coal depot through the Company for Restructuring of Mines from the state budget fund. This differentiation and the departure of coal companies from coal sales was caused by the difficult situation of hard coal mining, which caused very low coal prices. We're in a deconstructive period. I hope that this period will be over quickly and mining will be able to go straight again, but it was necessary to adapt to this situation of low prices and move towards maximum savings. Mining these restructuring programs, very painful and austerity, introduced. This has not only affected pensioners and pensioners, but has also affected miners who have been frozen wages, who have been deprived of some of their rights, which can be said, and it has to be said that wages have been reduced. It's not what you think and say in Poland. So-called mining experts are trying to convince people that miners have a lot of privileges. Of course, that's not true. I must say this from the Seym's Speaker clearly and clearly: miners have no privileges. They have a wage fund, a pay fund that's shaped differently than other industries. They pay all the taxes due from this fund. There's no extra charge for the miners. It's all part of the payroll fund. Even that proverbial fourteen that was now even taken away was nothing more than dividing the payroll fund for 12 months. Instead of paying them every month, they were paid once a year. We are in favour of simplifying the wage fund, but there are no conditions for this, because it is necessary to have adequate funds, that once, and two, the miners still remember the situation when they were just about to ask them to pay and so-called. Thirteen - which miners do not now have, and some media and some so-called. experts repeat that miners have thirteen - they have been introduced into the payroll fund. And what did it turn out to be? Six months later, this Thirteen girl was killed. So let's not be surprised that miners don't want to go further to simplify their payroll fund. And what's interesting is that every time we approach the issue of miners' wages, we really want to simplify it, because it's necessary that they don't tell us that we have one or another element of pay, and not everyone sees that it's nothing else. Only the payroll fund, that's when the employers say they're gonna do it. At the same time, we see that they want to reduce this overall wage fund in its entirety, i.e. they obviously want to deceive us. We don't know what to call it, but let me get this straight, we're not going to go. We want a fair analysis of the salaries of workers and the creation of a wage fund that would not fool the miners and give them the opportunity to pay decent wages for their dangerous and hard work, often at risk of life and health. Mining is in a difficult situation right now, but it still pays all public service fees. I'll tell you what it looks like at the end. There is no such thing as an addition to mining, which some people also talk about, and which is simple manipulation. It is not possible to pay for mining because it is defended by the European Union's rules. There's only one exception. You can add it to the mines that have been destroyed. And that's the only cost of the state budget when you can add to the mines that have been destroyed. That is why we are the enemy of the senseless elimination of mines when they can generate certain income. We have recently had examples where mines that were doomed to liquidation, after the restructuring period and the implementation of recovery plans, turned out to be very good mines. Only there could they sell coal, they could get along, they could restructure, and they function as profitable as possible. And despite these low prices, we are probably a phenomenon in Europe, and we are able to carry out mining without subsidies during this difficult period, which is not possible in Europe. For example, the Czech Republic is already one step away from liquidating mining. Often we were given an example, asked why you did not do as in the Czech Republic. I wonder what the experts are gonna tell you now. In Germany, huge money has been paid into mining for a long time. And do you know why they paid for mining in Germany? That's interesting, too. The reason was one and very simple. It was paid to the mining industry to make this mining safe, because German citizens work in the mines. Similarly, Polish citizens work in Poland and should work and extract this coal safely. Unfortunately, the European Union specifically prohibits subsidies for coal, which is why we need to undergo deep restructuring. I hope it's almost over, and soon coal prices will go up and demand for coal. Last we heard, yesterday or the day before yesterday, that Japan is planning to build 50 coal plants because coal has a future. We too are in favour of modern renewable energy sources, of course. You just have to know they're crazy expensive. The cheapest energy source is coal-based energy, whether you like it or not. We even talked to environmentalists. We told them that we were in favour of the fact that coal energy is the cheapest, so that there would be profits that could be gradually invested in renewable energy as well. After all, we are not against renewable energy. We're not against clean air. We also need to know that there are clean coal burning technologies, modern furnaces. It's not like you're gonna stop smoking coal in the furnaces and the air will be clean. No, we need to introduce modern coal-burning technologies, modern coal-fired furnaces. Because it's not the coal that's gonna contaminate the air if it burns properly. We're not gonna take out CO2 right now. Besides, CO2 isn't exactly worthless. After all, all forests and trees live because of CO2. You need to know that, too. Coal in general is very important in various areas. We can even talk about modern technologies. Let me remind you, graphene is carbon. I'm gonna say this thing right now so I don't get so deadly serious with this carbon of ours, but this is interesting. Here I address the Messengers, especially the Messengers of Modern. They probably know that, but it's not always in the consciousness that nothing adds more glow to women than a diamond. And the diamond is coal, Mr. Messengers. So let's respect that coal we were talking about, that's our black gold. Now you try to discredit him for no reason. After all, coal is also the energy security of the country. We don't have any other energy sources for this moment except coal. We're talking gas from one direction, we're switching to another, but 85%. energy is produced from coal and will continue for many years. After all, I know that there are some lobbyists who would have destroyed all the mines in Poland a long time ago, but they can't do it because they know that we'll be powerless by then. By the way, yesterday I heard there was supposed to be a million electric cars. For the record, these electric cars have to be powered, electrocuted. And the current isn't that it's plugged into the socket. This electricity needs to be produced. Of what? Under Polish coal conditions, whether you like it or not. It's gonna be like this for years. That's why I talked about the importance of coal and these simple truths, to resist all those who are bored to tell the public that all Poles are paying for mining, that miners are just reaching out for subsidies. It's not, it's not, and it's not. Miners can think, they can negotiate, they can manage their businesses rationally. We still have a lot of work to do. There are many mines in Poland that need repairing. We know that, we're talking to the current Ministry of Energy. I hope that solutions for some mines, before which there is still a lot of coal for mining, will find solutions that will make these mines able to serve the Polish society and will be the proceeds to the budget from these mines. I'm not gonna mention these names for their safety, but my miners know which mines they're talking about. The Ministry of Energy knows, too. I hope these things go in the right direction. A lot of things the Platform started doing right when it came to mining. The PiS gentlemen continue this work, trying to drive it even more perfectly so that mining can function even though Europe does not like coal. We will soon have a notification of mining projects, but we must go through this and the miners will certainly help. Besides, there are already a number of sacrifices on the part of the miners. But I'm going back to the bill, which means the retired miners don't have a deputy. These examples show that coal companies pay, receive or suspend the coal depot for this group of persons. It should be noted that the exercise of this power also takes various forms, e.g. In some cases, the coal depot is paid by the Social Security Office to some pensioners and in other cases the debt is issued in a traditional manner. The proposed amendment of the Law of 7 September 2007 on the functioning of hard coal mining will address the problem of diversification and will ensure equal status of pensioners in terms of their rights to receive coal. Moreover, such a solution will relieve companies and mining companies and significantly reduce the cost of coal extraction. During this difficult period, we must do everything we can to ensure that there is no such burden. As far as carbon deputies and this diversity are concerned, we must be aware that the retired miners had these deputies, as I said before, for 100 years, but not all of them, some of them, through factory collective agreements, have recently received these deputies and were quite convinced that the state of the law in which they thought they were living will ensure that these deputies will have to the end. Because it was in the bill, so it was constructed that they got these deputies and they were supposed to have them to the very end. Meanwhile, these acquired rights, which are sacred laws, have been broken. And these retired miners feel insanely hurt, so it is necessary to bring about such a situation that all miners, retired miners, who have lost their health in mines, do not feel this social inequality, this action of the state that has taken away their deputies, and even though it will cost the budget, it must be done to restore their faith in the state. Because this is the restoration of faith in the state that something that has been given are rights acquired and respected by the State. It can't be that you give once and you don't give once. You cannot afford such things, and since it is to be paid from the state budget, I will now say something on the basis of figures, reliable figures from the State Industrial Development Agency. These are reliable figures that tell the truth about Polish mining. Over the last 12 years, 88 billion PLN has been paid to the state budget in the form of public payments and all taxes. Last year, despite the difficult mining situation, 6300 million zlotys were received, and the cost of deputies is estimated at about 200, 280 million zlotys. So this is such a scale, it shows that it is not all Poland that will be composed. The miners have given their share to the budget, so out of these 6 billions from one year - and so it is every year, and if it is going to be economical, these billions will be more every year, these are the money made by the miners - you can give them out of the state budget 300, 280 million. We need to establish this precisely, precisely with the Ministry of Labour, this money for pensioners to regain their confidence in the state, which will make it easier to rule at a time when there is confidence in the State. Moreover, today we have talked a lot about trust in you, about the Constitutional Court: if the Constitutional Court is a court of law, which was just said today, then this judgment of the Tribunal - I will tell you immediately what judgment, which of December 2005, should have been put into effect long ago. What am I talking about? I'm talking about the Constitutional Court's verdict, nothing else, and I'm about to read it, just about the deputy. Well, all pensioners who work in companies with collective agreements for mining workers have the same right to a coal depot or its financial equivalent, should have equal protection of that right. 12 December 2005 at 3 p.m. 14 The Constitutional Tribunal recognised the combined constitutional actions concerning the right to provide money for the coal depot. The Constitutional Tribunal held that Article. Article 55 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The Law of 26 November 1998 on the adaptation of hard coal mining to market economy conditions and specific powers and tasks of mining municipalities, in force until the date of the entry into force of the Law of 5 December 2002 amending the Law on the adaptation of hard coal mining to market economy conditions and the special powers and tasks of mining municipalities, in part including the return of completely decommissioned mines, is incompatible with Article. Article 64 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 in conjunction with Article. 32 Constitution of the Republic of Poland. According to the Constitutional Court, there is no basis for the property rights considered in this case to be differentiated on the basis of any reasonable criteria. Regardless of the fact that this law relates to the earlier employment relationship of pensioners employed in companies of different categories - mining companies and mining companies, it has one source: a collective work arrangement for workers of the mining plant of December 1991, so-called. U.S.P. Therefore, all pensioners who have previously worked in enterprises covered by the PHP, having the same right to free coal, carried out in the form of a coal depot or its financial equivalent, should have equal protection of that right. This order is based on the Constitution. As a result of the amendment of the legislation, the subject matter of protection was limited only to persons from mines completely decommissioned. Thus, pensioners employed in mining works enterprises were deprived of the protection of the law resulting from the UZP. The Constitutional Tribunal held that the amended provision in the part involving the return from mines completely decommissioned is incompatible with the Constitution by arbitrary differentiation of the entity's scope of protection of the property right to the equivalent of the right to free coal. The hearing was presided over by the judge of the Constitutional Court Janusz Niemcewicz, the rapporteur was Judge Mirosław Wyrzykowski, the judgment is final and his sentence is published in the Official Journal of the Law. So if this is the judgment of the Constitutional Court, and I in the Seym have been hearing for many, many days of debate on the Constitutional Tribunal, so I understand, this is a very important issue and the judgments of the Tribunal are extremely important, it is all the more necessary to make these judgments respectable and not differentiate pensioners, not deprive them of their acquired rights. They just need to feel that the state is fair and that no one's taking anything from them. On 22 January, the Sejm passed a law amending the Law on the Functioning of Coal Mining in the years 2008 to 2015 and certain other laws, but did not amend the proposed amendment to the article. 13. We'll be in the committees if the Honourable Sejm directs our bill to the committee, talk about the article. 12 laws governing the granting of free coal in kind financed by a budget grant. Here we will not argue, it is also in committee to agree whether it is a deputy in nature or in another form, it is all to negotiate and to compromise. However, the amendment did not include former mining workers or mining plants entitled to a coal debt under the existing rules, which were taken or suspended by the management boards of coal companies and mining companies. I'm reading from our justification, as I said before. I also talked about the reasons why this was happening. This issue is governed by the amendment proposed in Article. 13, to be bored, I'll say we'll talk about art. 12. Amendment to Article 30a eliminates the time limits for the payment of allowances - deputies - from the budget grant. Of course, the amendment will entail a burden on the state budget. We calculated this at PLN 290 million a year. According to the calculation, the entitlement will be granted approx. 160,000. Retirement and pensioners. So many people are hurt, so many people feel that something has been taken away from them, that their acquired rights have been violated, so this basic justice needs to be restored here. 160,000. Pensioners and pensioners - in the amount of 3 t per year for the price of 600 PLN per tonne, which gives, as we have calculated, 288 million PLN. This will probably be corrected by the Ministry of Finance or the Ministry of Treasury, but that will be clarified in committee if our bill goes to committee. The power would be exercised in favour of a mining undertaking authorised by a budget subsidy in accordance with the same principles as is currently being exercised in favour of former mining workers placed in liquidation before 1 January 2015 and of mining workers placed in liquidation before 1 January 2007 as part of the undertaking referred to in Article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Act - e.g. the mining undertaking which has been wound up before 1 January 2016 and which has obtained a pension before 1 January 2016. The draft law does not provide for the adoption of implementing acts. In relation to the draft law, the applicants did not consult in such a classic form, because we consulted very widely, and we received a lot of requests from mining pensioners, people connected with mining, who told us that this matter had to be brought to a happy end in order for justice to be done. It's not enough that we've been appealed to, it doesn't stop there. Some of the retirees are running court cases, some of the cases won, some of them lost. The case may even go to the European Court. After all, it is probably easier not to bother Europe again with our deputies, with our injustice, which is currently affecting these pensioners, that we can solve by amending the law ourselves. Let Europe no longer worry about our problems, how we can do it ourselves. That is why I think that, once we have addressed what we will be appealing for, we will proceed to the appropriate committee in such a way as to bring our draft amendment to the Coal Deputies Act to a happy end. And it really won't be at the expense of society as a whole. We ourselves, as miners, will earn these 200, 300 or - if someone calculates - a little more millions, so that this historic justice of more than 100,000. Retired people... To bring this thing to an end, what we're going to be trying to do. We're gonna work really hard to make this happen. Therefore, I would like to conclude by asking the High House that our bill be sent to the Parliamentary Committee, where further proceedings may take place, so that the retirees will have the social justice they have been waiting for for years. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u452	Thank you very much to the representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee for presenting the project. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. I ask Mrs Ewa Malik to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u453	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the citizens' draft law amending the Law of 7 September 2007 on the functioning of hard coal mining, print No 461. The amendment presented by the applicant's representative concerns the issue of the rights to the coal depot, which in particular in Upper Silesia, at the location of the hard coal industry, raises numerous discussions and is still a very lively topic in the industry's workforce. The tradition of miners' rights to collect part of the payment for underground work in the form of a coal depot is long and extends to the pre-war period. However, in recent years, due to the financial problems of mining companies, the poor situation in the hard coal market due on the one hand to the high costs of coal extraction and, on the other hand, due to the drop in coal prices, there has been a considerable problem with the distribution of coal depots. Each of the coal companies individually decided to resolve the issue of the coal debt, which affected the diversity of access to this specific power, which the company's boards treated as an archaic benefit in form or even as a waste and a heavy burden on the budgets of the coal companies themselves, which were sometimes faced with a collapse. The practice of deputies' boards was to pay at the discretion or receive or suspend these mining benefits. The exercise of this right also takes various forms. Some pensioners are paid out by the ZUS, others are paid in a traditional way. Therefore, the situation in the mining environment in Silesia is increasing because of such diversity in the approach of employers to the issue of payment of deputies. Now the situation is that, for example, SRK - The Company for Restructuring of Mine pays coal sales to pensioners and miners, and fedrian mining companies do not pay this benefit at all. The citizens' initiative to amend the law on the operation of hard coal mining is an attempt to remedy the situation of unequal treatment of former coal workers. The proposed regulation is one way to address the issue of carbon allowances. According to the applicants, it allows for a painful solution to the problem in Silesia, providing a guarantee of equal status of pensioners and miners in this respect, and it does so by reaching the state budget for the funds for the payment of the benefits in question. This solution also aims to relieve the burden on mining companies, which are generally in a very difficult situation, which is also intended to significantly reduce the costs of coal extraction. The issue of granting a budget subsidy for the payment of deputies is included in the provisions amending Article. 13 laws. In turn, in the article. 30a The time limits for paying deputies from the budget grant have been eliminated accordingly. The Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice recommends the High House to refer the citizens' draft law on amending the law on the operation of hard coal mining to further work in the committee of Members. Although the print project No 641 is burdened with a legislative error, in this case the view is that the citizens' initiative must be respected, which has been signed by a number of citizens from the south of Poland who support the claims of former mining workers in terms of their rights to the coal debt. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u454	Thank you very much. I would ask Mr Krzysztof Gadowski to speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u455	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the miners! I am pleased on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform, to present a report on the citizens' draft law amending the law on the operation of hard coal mining. The issue of the implementation of the coal debt, especially for pensioners and miners, has become complicated with the loss of financial liquidity of coal companies. That's what the applicant was talking about. This was mainly due to an increase in the price of coal, as well as an oversupply of coal on global markets. Today we have a really diverse, unclear situation on many levels, one can say, strange, in the opinion of many unjust. Let's take a look at what it's like today to implement this equivalent, the coal depot. On the one hand, we have pensioners and persons entitled to this, in which case the implementation of the coal debt comes from the resources of the State Treasury. This applies primarily to the workers of the mines being wound up, as well as employees retired from SRK - the Company for Restructuring of Mines, as well as former employees of PRG, PŻ, i.e. those who used to work and who received these rights under a separate law. I've had the pleasure of bringing this project in and updating it myself. The State budget for this purpose in 2016 allocated an amount of approx. PLN 181 million. On the other hand, we have pensioners from downstream mining companies. Those persons received a carbon depot either in kind or in the form of a monetary equivalent until 2014. The situation changed dramatically in 2015. There are various estimates here, some say 160,000, others say about 200,000. current pensioners, former mining workers lost this equivalent. The applicant was talking about why, what it looks like in companies. You can say that some companies have suspended, some do not pay at all. But we have three coal companies of the State Treasury: Lubelski Węgiel Bogdanka, Tauron Production and Company of Restructuring of Mines, which pay their pensioners a monetary equivalent. I'm not talking about varying the size of this equivalent anymore. The situation is becoming more and more complicated in connection with the restructuring of the coal industry, when the Company for Restructuring of Mines begins to take over mining plants or some of them, including workers. So the subject is open and it needs to be resolved in some form as soon as possible. But it can't be as - as we're all going to say - that only those pensioners who are in a restructuring company have these benefits secured by the state budget, and those who worked in their establishments to the end do not have this security. Many times here, in the Seym, in this Chamber, we have discussed this subject. I myself have been pleased to ask the Minister of Energy recently even a question about the further situation related to the cash equivalent. Then I heard the answer from the Minister present here that the work is being done, there is a team that was supposed to prepare the assumptions for the bill, even talking about the speciality that it will be in force in the near future. Unfortunately, today we do not have this government project yet, but we will see what happens next. The citizens' bill discussed today raises all these issues. It may not be too perfect and extensive in its justification, as some say, is burdened with a legislative flaw, but it deserves to be leaned over. It can't be like this, and we can't just walk past the crowd, I don't know, 160 and 200 thousand. former mining workers who were deprived of this deputy because of no fault of their own. It is high time that the government and the parliament deal with ordering this situation. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Many people, also here in this Chamber, remember the words made in 2014 by the Member, today the Minister of Energy, Krzysztof Tchórzewski, when talks were ongoing in the Coal Company with the social side on the liquidation of the equivalent. I quote: If the deputy is to be picked up, there must be compensation for these deputies. This issue needs to be sorted out. Several years ago, the deputy was taken from the railroads, but the case was settled. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Their powers are governed by the State. Yeah, I checked, actually, $250,000. Former rail workers receive a cash equivalent, the state budget secures for this purpose the amount of PLN 390 million. It's time and time to sort things out for former mining workers who don't get this equivalent today. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, thanking applicants for this citizens' bill, is in favour of passing this project to the committee for further work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u456	Thank you very much, sir, although I must say that there has been a change behind the Presidency table, and it is Barbara Dolniak who is holding the sitting, so with this marshal It's not so much. I ask Mr Krzysztof Sitarski from the Kukiz club15 to speak on behalf of this club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u457	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! My fellow miners! God bless you! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz club15 in relation to the citizens' draft law amending the Act of 7 September 2007 on the functioning of hard coal mining. A minimum of 100,000. The signatures were needed. Several mining trade unions, the social side - you made an effort, 110 thousand. important votes in respect of the restoration of the coal mandate is a fact. The question is whether the coal depot for mining pensioners is to be paid from the state budget in a uniform manner and form. I'll say it is. The proposed legislation assumes the payment of a deputy to mining pensioners on the same basis regardless of the plant in which they worked, in which they completed their work. Today, we are dealing with a very diverse formula for the implementation of carbon allowances. The Sejm Analysis Office points to the fact that the draft amendment of the law has a legislative defect. I think that this problem will be addressed in the committee, and this is therefore a technical issue which should not pose any problem for this project to continue. At the turn of 2015 and 2016, the Ministry of Energy announced that it would be preparing a special bill aimed at ordering the issue of the payment of the coal debt to mining pensioners, but the citizens' project was submitted faster. As a result of the transformation and search for savings in mining, not all eligible people receive a deputy. The Kukiz Club15 is in favour of a draft amendment to the law for further reading in the Sejm committees. I hope and express our hope that we will be able to prepare together with the social side, as well as the resorts, the Ministry of Energy, a solution that meets the demands of the projector. There's one more thing to remember. Miners, generally the mining industry has worked out the economy of our country for many years. This fiscal burden - mines pay dozens of different types of taxes - and amounts paid to the state budget. It should be noted, however, that this is a significant contribution to the economy of our country, and at this point in time people making this income over the years should be dealt with properly and should be partly compensated for this effort and the risks incurred in working downstairs. Nor should miners from mining companies be forgotten, who have also been deprived of this. I hope, Minister, that, in agreement with the social side, the Ministry of Energy will manage the subject of this law as efficiently as possible and that a common consensus will be reached, so that the Ministry and our country are proud to support the miners in retirement. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u458	Thank you very much, sir. And I would ask you to speak on behalf of the Club Modern Mrs Monica Rosa. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u459	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, it must be acknowledged that the project is really ordering the way deputies have been paid so far, which leads to the harmonisation of this system and the uniform treatment of all pensioners regardless of where the mines were employed. This gives pensioners a sense of justice: everyone is treated equally. We know that the deputy has been paid practically forever. Looking at last years, you can see that the worst thing for the operation of mines was to take over the payment of this debt by these mines, especially during the transformation of Poland towards a free market economy. The fact that the mines had to include the coal depot in the operating cost automatically translated into an increase in Polish coal prices. To this day, the costs of paying out the deputy, issuing it in nature and creating reserves for this purpose for the years to come have a very significant impact on the financial situation of the mines at present. In contrast to free market conditions, however, this is not directly related to the operation of mines, but rather to the historical-social-political factor, and therefore does not make these mines attractive against the background of competitive coal from imports. In addition, deputies have always influenced injustice towards other professional groups. We should ask ourselves whether we are actually able from the state budget, i.e. from citizens' taxes, to spend a few hundred million a year on the payment of these deputies. Certainly the mines could not afford such payouts and it would be another nail in the coffin of Polish mining, actually another nail. We understand that there are privileges acquired, but ultimately we are in favour of eliminating such privileges. This will equal the chances for mines to compete in the coal market, in the competitive market. To women, sir, glow is mostly about independence, self-reliance. I'm sure the diamonds aren't needed for that. [[Applause]] [[But it won't hurt.]] They'll never hurt. As for Japan, coal is mainly imported from Australia. It's open coal, it's just cheaper, and it's not gonna change. It is worth, I think, to mention a little bit about the electricity system, first of all, that it must be reliable, that is to say, supply as much energy as we need, in all conditions, regardless of weather conditions and seasons; it must be flexible, that is to say, respond to the current needs of more or less energy consumption; it must be safe in two respects: in the health and environmental aspects and in the energy independence of the state. So our sources should provide energy... [[Voice from the room: From the wind.]] ...clean electricity and heat, distributed energy, prosumer energy, and unfortunately RES Law and Justice and Wind Energy are eliminating. Our system must also be competitive. Energy is an essential element in many production processes and providing this cheap energy should encourage investors to stay in Poland. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Already?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u460	Thank you very much, Member. I will also ask Mr Mirosław Suchon to speak on behalf of the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u461	Thank you. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Dear Representatives of the Initiative! Dear guests! Of course, my excellent colleague has basically already said everything about it: how important this project is, how much it affects these important problems in Silesia, how it solves them. I think I'm going to focus on this last, very important aspect. This project is a social project, which results from the needs of a specific, very active, dynamic social group. This project solves problems that in some ways relate to the inequality of treatment between the different people who really shared the socio-economic situation. Here, too, we see that it is not fair that some people are treated in this way and others are treated in a different way, even though they were actually doing the same thing. So that we also respect acquired rights, we believe that what has benefited pensioners so far should, of course, be maintained. The State must be stable, the State must ensure that the rights are respected. It is difficult to accept that, as a result of being in such a place and not elsewhere, in such a situation and not in any other situation being treated differently, this treatment changes over time. So, thanking you warmly for this social initiative - which we want to appreciate very much, because it is important for citizens to bring forward projects that solve their problems - we are also in favour of this, [[♪ The bell ♪]] to direct this proposal to work in committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u462	Thank you very much. I would ask Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak to speak on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u463	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I would like to refer to this draft bill on coal debt, in short. The speakers have said a lot about this. I don't want to repeat myself. I think it is appropriate to thank you for the initiative you have taken, because it is certainly a great effort. Whoever carried out the initiative to collect signatures knows how many it is necessary to intrude and how many procedures it is to carry out it well, because there are also certain deadlines, certain deadlines. One thing is important and important: there can be no differentiation in access to benefits or entitlements. The Constitutional Tribunal issued a clear position in this respect and a definitive position, as you said. This is also an example of today's debate on the Constitutional Court, how important and need is the Court and its judgments. At that time no one questioned nor today questions whether it was a tribunal on the left or on the right. There was a tribunal and he passed judgment. And no one thinks about it. You didn't even think who was behind this tribunal, and at the moment it started, it's to the detriment of lawmaking, but at the same time it shows that the tribunal is not just for politicians, it's for ordinary citizens and it's supposed to defend citizens' rights. Yeah, I'm off the subject, but that's what happens. Renewable energy. I'm dealing with this renewable energy kind of thing. I would not put any sign of equality here or speak of competition that coal and renewable energy are competing with each other. It's absolutely not like that, and it's not gonna be like that, and it can't be like that. But it's important that there's this symbiosis and there's this civic energy for everyone, so that any citizen can have access to that energy, can produce it somewhere. This will certainly not harm mining or industrial energy, because the demand for energy in our country will increase, even though we are introducing energy efficiency. It's just that these devices are going to get more and more. Therefore, this should be respected. I think the government will take action, because it will be up to the government at the moment to get to it quickly, because it is clear what this is all about: money and finding a simple formula, which is easy to read, how this money is to be paid so that there is no such distraction. That's how the neighbors worked with each other in one condition: one gets, the other doesn't get. Either everyone gets it or nobody gets it. I am in favour of getting them on the same terms, because now we have mines and private, and state, and transformed, and during the transformation. So you have to find this formula. Therefore, my club is in favour of passing the project to work in committees or committees - I do not know to which committee the marshal will direct it, but I think social policy - and quickly proceed on it, so that it is not so delayed in time, because the matter is clear and clear: people need to return rights acquired, because that is what the tribunal has said, that is the principle in a civilized state and that is what we are in favour of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u464	Thank you very much. It will be a slightly different committee than you mentioned, but it will be in a moment. And now I ask you very much, Mr Ireneus, to make an appearance on behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u465	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarni Circle, I present my position on the citizens' draft law amending the Law of 7 September 2007 on the functioning of hard coal mining. Coal Deputy is a very old mining authority traditionally granted to both workers and pensioners or miners' rencists. The State is obliged to keep the social agreements concluded and should not change the conditions during their duration without the agreement of the other party. Examples of such unacceptable practices were seen during the PO-PSL governments, when the government, with acceptance of the available then Constitutional Tribunal, robbed citizens of the money collected at OFE and raised retirement age. The proposed law aims to bridge the gap of the Act adopted in January 2015 by skipping mining workers and mining plants with the right to a deputy on the basis of the existing legislation, which has been removed by the Boards of Coal Companies and Companies, and to abolish the limitation of the temporary budget subsidy for deputies. Unfortunately, the amendment adopted in December 2015 did not correct and even deepen the gap arising from the lack of regulation of the coal debt. The adoption of this amendment will lead to the harmonisation of the payment of the coal debt from the state budget, by regulating the issue as a whole, while restoring a sense of social justice by fulfilling the commitments previously made by the State. In the current situation, regardless of the legislative flaw that the authors of the project have not avoided, expressing their respect for the initiative related to the collection of 100,000. signatures under the project, Members of the Free and Solidarni Circles request that the citizens' bill be sent to work in the Parliamentary committees, during which an assessment of the impact of this regulation on the state budget should also be carried out, which should be relevant to the determination of the amount due to the eligible coal deputy. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u466	Thank you very much, sir. We've enrolled 10 people to speak. Would any of your fellow Members like to join the questioning list? I can't see. As a result, I'm closing... [[Voice from the room: I'm still here.]] Member? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] Then please, we will also write the Member as the eleventh person. Is there anyone else? No. Then I close the list. In that case, I would very much like to ask Mr Paweł Bańkowski from the Civic Platform Club to ask the first question. One and a half minutes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u467	Dear Marshal! Minister! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Dear miners! High Izbo! I am very pleased that today, in the High Chamber, there is a first reading of the citizens' draft law amending the Law of 7 September 2007 on the functioning of hard coal mining, which aims to harmonise the payment of the money equivalent for the deputy for all pensioners and the miners. To my parliamentary office in Jaworzno, which can boast almost over two hundred years of mining tradition, day-to-day mining pensioners come to the office concerned about this division of better and worse. So those who get the equivalent, or those who don't get it from coal companies, are waiting to get that legal status straightened out. In January this year, I asked the Minister of Energy to take legislative action by the government of Mrs Beata Szydło. I was assured by the Minister that in the first half of the year there was a chance to regulate this legal situation. Minister, I hope the Minister will keep that promise. I would also like to draw attention to one thing on the occasion of the process of this project, namely the imbalance in payment of ZUS equivalent for mining pensioners, [[♪ The bell ♪]] who get 200 PLN less than other professional groups, e.g. Railroads. I think the High House should also address this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u468	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club, has submitted a written question. The next question will therefore be asked by Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u469	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In the discussion, when we discussed here about the draft law on the matter we are discussing today, the Minister mentioned that a team of the Ministry of Energy and the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, which was to be set up in the coming days, was to address the assumptions. This was to take place in a very short period of time, even days, and you did not count this in weeks. I wanted to ask you how far the work has been done to prepare this government project. We are aware that the citizens' project is one of the projects, and it will certainly take a lot of work to turn it into a proper project, which will be a gateway to achieving all the demands that the applicants have come with today, a committee of citizens' initiative. And the second topic, Minister. The process of transferring employees to the Company for Restructuring of Mine continues. As of 9 May, almost 8 thousand were transferred to the company. miners, mining workers. That's 2,000 of them. went to a subsidiary of Tauron. Several have already retired or several hundred have also benefited from vacations. But we know that this process is still going on. We make complex mines, but we know well that some of these complex mines [[♪ The bell ♪]] will be transferred in turn to the restructuring company. How much will the number of employees who will already benefit directly from this benefit increase in the coming years? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u470	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Zbigniew Biernat, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u471	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Dear Applicants! High Izbo! The problem of lack of equivalent for retired miners concerns not only Silesia, but also western Małopolska, Zagłębia. This is a problem which, of course, was largely caused by the financial and economic situation in mining, but above all it led to the fact that often in one block, next to each other, neighbours are in such a situation that one of the miners working under difficult conditions has this equivalent, and the other one does not have it. I have a question for applicants, above all for the social side: What has changed, which was the reason why today we can talk about this problem and so all clubs support this proposal? And let me remind you that Minister of Civic Platform Wojciech Kowalczyk said last year that this is not an acquired benefit. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u472	Thank you very much. Another question, Mr Grzegorz Matusiak, club Law and Justice. Please, sir, ask me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u473	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Dear Applicants! Hey, guys! Guests! I would like to remind you that, at the beginning of the year, Minister Grzegorz Tobiszowski publicly informed that a bill is being drafted to regulate coal equivalent for mining pensioners and Rentists. He also stated that the work would probably be finished by the end of June. So that I think that at the end of June we will also receive information about this project and we will be able to compare which project is relevant to the social side. Today, after 8 years, you can say that it has become a miracle - the social side can talk to partners, can speak, can discuss and, as you can see, this voice in the discussion is very important, this voice in the discussion is well heard today. First of all, I congratulate the applicants that they mobilized mining crews, especially mining pensioners, because I will remind them that at Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa there were protests of retired miners and renownists who demanded payment of coal equivalent. I also have a question for the applicants: Do they also take into account the fact that the equivalent was not paid in 2015 and 2016? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u474	Thank you very much. Next question, Barbara Dziuk, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u475	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that the topic of the deputy is being discussed in the public debate, because as a member of the Silesian land, I often receive questions and requests from miners related to the deputat. I am pleased that we can now talk as partners. We have to remember one thing: 8 years of governance of the Platform has ruined this resort. The scandal for me is that Members of the previous ruling crew are speaking on the subject they neglected. They caused many economic tragedies, many families were left without the possibility of work, without support. The difference between this and the current good change is that the restructuring of mines contains a specific programme, while Prime Minister Kopacz coming to Silesia with two cards was simply insulting the dignity of this resort. Therefore, I have a question for the Minister: In what time will it be possible to approach the subject in substance and to enable matters that have been obvious for years and, unfortunately, have been destroyed by the previous authority? [[♪ The bell ♪]] The difference between Law and Justice and the Platform is that, as railroads have been granted deputies under the rule of the PiS, so now Law and Justice will also address this issue. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u476	Thank you very much. Another question, Mr Sylvester Khrushch, Kukiz Club15. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u477	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Gentlemen of the miners, God bless you. I have a specific question, Minister. We're gonna have a civil project tonight. Today we said that we were working on a government project, and we know that time is important here. Can we now determine whether the public consultation that we are going to carry out has already begun, whether it is being conducted, and really when it is finished? Because this is a clue of this case - as soon as we do it and these consultations will be reliable, we will be able to introduce this law very quickly. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u478	Thank you very much. Another question, Mr Grzegorz Długi, Kukiz club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u479	Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! The miners' brothers! I apologize, Marshal, for using the word unknown in the Constitution or in the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u480	But I'm not angry, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u481	...but I've noticed that your marshal makes a difference, and I'm happy for you. [[Time's running out.]] I wanted to ask the applicant a question. This is linked to the initiative itself, because, as we all know, our group strongly supports civic activity, and this is the method that we want, i.e. that citizens take their problems into their own hands and deal with them. We want to support it as much as we can, because that's the most important thing. In this initiative, regardless of the attempt to correct a certain social harm, because that is what it needs to be called, I see this element of civic activity, which is the most important element. Our group even supported a citizens' initiative that was deeply contrary to our conservative views - it is about teaching religion in schools - but since it is a citizens' initiative, we support it. And we are still content with this one. But my question is different. Is it true that as a result of migration after the completion of work in Silesia, this problem concerns not only Silesia, but the whole of Poland? As the retired miners are all over Poland, they have often returned to their homepages or moved, it is not a problem only Silesian, [[♪ The bell ♪]] but nationwide. And second question, very short. Is it true that in many cases this case ended in court, the courts held that miners and pensioners deserved it? Was that a court order? As a result, even the Coal Company at some point had to withdraw from this policy, knowing that it would lose in court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u482	Thank you very much. Another question, Mr Stefan Romecki, also the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u483	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! God bless the miners. Ladies and gentlemen, as important as mining is, there is no need to convince anyone in Poland or us here in the High House. How coal is important for the Polish economy and its compatriots - also. The idea is right, but I have a question for the applicant. During your committee work, do you foresee the possibility of finding a compromise between the legitimate interests of the miners and the understandable interests of the mining plants? As a man from the sea, from Koszalin, I still have a question as to whether there is work to be done to eliminate these caps in coal companies, because of which you earn less and we pay more. Is there any work going on on this? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u484	Thank you very much. Another question, Mr Sitarski, also the Kukiz club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u485	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the applicants! I have a question for the applicants: Is it true that taxes, from which the Modern Member also collects allowances, are paid to a large extent by miners? Is it true that Australians mentioned in the speech invest in Poland to build mines? And then there's this digression about the second possible coffin. The platform prepared one coffin for mining, but we won't allow the other coffin. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u486	And one last question, Mrs Ewa Malik, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u487	I have a question for applicants: What is the level of average mining pensions today? You certainly have objective knowledge in this regard, and I do not hesitate to ask: What order of amounts will mining pensioners receive in connection with the acquisition of coal debt rights again? Of course, miners work very hard under very difficult conditions. It is clear that they therefore expect good pay for senior years and good health care. I'm actually asking you because I'm going to defy some bad message that goes to society on this subject, and on the other hand I'm aware that, for example. in our country, the average pensioner's pensioner's pensioner's benefits range from 6 to 8 thousand. zł. So I ask you, please, that this message, which is simply true, should not be slandered by the miners, that we do not know what they are demanding. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u488	Thank you very much. In this way, we have exhausted the list of persons enrolled in the question. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy, Mr Grzegorz Tobiszowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u489	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Representatives of the Civil Project! Welcome. I will answer the questions that have been addressed to the government. Both Mr. Bańkowski and Mr. Gadowski asked me this by referring to my speech on the government project. Yeah, the band's been set up, we're already talking about history. The team has prepared a project. Let me remind you that it was a team of the Ministry of Energy and the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. This was prepared in the form of a legislative act. Work has also been started with the Ministry of Finance to analyse the size that will need to be secured in the budget and in future budgets as regards this regulation. Thank you for this civic project, because it kind of fits in with what we said at the beginning of the year, so that we need to systematize, regulate this issue, which is actually treated differently in different companies. We have decided that the current government will assume financial and organisational responsibility for carbon equivalent issues for these pensioners. As regards the reference to Mr Tchórzewski's 2014 quoted statement, I am also confirming those 2014 words that the Ministry, under the authority of Minister Tchórzewski, has prepared a project. Currently, we are at the stage of determining the issue of proceding with the Ministry of Finance. We're trying to fill in what I said from this podium, and I remember that we'd like to start proceding by the middle of this year. And that's the time we set, and that's really where we're going with it. If it turns out that the public consultation that we are going to want to carry out will move this period forward, then I think it will not be a certain shortcoming, because what I have also signaled, the bill should enter, and so we will suggest in our project - I think it will also be discussed in committee, because I think that the citizens' project will go to committee because there is no dispute about the debate in committee on this issue - this regulation should enter from 1 January 2017. I will tell you why we are talking about this date and we will suggest it as a government. For, I ask you, from our calculations and calculations, which are the basis for the government bill, but they will also be used to discuss the civil project, because it would be best for us, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the civil project, if we collide these two projects in the committee, because your project, of course, introduces some important provisions, while we would like to extend it to this organisational formula, that we acknowledge that this will be the entity that will pay out the appropriate size, and at the same time we create an algorithm for calculating the amounts that will be assigned to the carbon equivalent, which is a rule that we create... And yes, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to people per day, actually at the end of 2015 - because this is what we refer to, of course this will change, because we know that there will also be changes here, because it was about people who are retired - 235 307 people, this is the reference point, it is covered by this regulation. Ladies and gentlemen, the calculations show - and I'm about to tell you what I'm based on in our calculations - that this is almost 400 million. This is indeed a large volume, which should be secured so that we can bear the corresponding commitments which, as we wish in this law, is to take over the budget of the state. What algorithm do we use in this act? Using the fact that we are talking about a civil project, but here is a correlation that we want to solve this issue, ladies and gentlemen, and I will say that we are taking the following calculations. Each year, the Minister of Energy states in the notice what amounts are paid in respect of the amounts in zlotys per tonne of coal. And we want to accept that 3 tons of carbon are assigned to one person. Of course, in the announcement, as I mentioned, this size will be calculated annually. For today, this is PLN 1600.1700, depending on the announcement and the size which is for 1 t of coal, would be assigned as an additional amount to the pension paid by the Social Security Office. That's why I wanted to say that this project of ours is over, it's analyzed. We are now trying with the Minister of Finance, as I mentioned, to clarify this size in the construction of next year's budget and to impose on the citizens' project. I think that would be an appropriate solution to this problem, which really needs to be regulated once and for all. As far as SRK is concerned, because such questions were also - asked Mr Gadowski - those who move to the Company for Restructuring of Mines have coal included in their remuneration. Here, the situation is that when they retire, they retire on the basis of an employment contract. So this is going to change for us over the years. However, where this figure of 235, 307 people came from. We have taken the following entities into account. I know we've expanded a little bit of what was in the civic project. I'm just showing that we came up fuller because we were also in touch while you were collecting signatures. So Kompania Węglowa SA, Katowicki Holding Węglowy SA - I am talking about last year, of course, because as you know, now we have the Polish Mining Group - Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa, Kazimierz-Juliusz sp. O.O., Bogdanka and Tauron Extraction. With regard to Bogdanka and Tauron Extraction, these two entities today are fulfilling deputies obligations due to the financial situation that allows them to carry out this commitment in a timely manner. We can't, if we want to sort this out once and properly, take these two entities out of the picture. Hence, we have more people who are taken into account when it comes to pensions than is the case in the citizens' project. If it goes, ladies and gentlemen, for a public consultation - it was actually a question for applicants, but I think it's worth a bit of reference. I think that the very fact that we have a citizens' project, which requires a sufficient number of signatures, means that we already have quite a solid public consultation. This also causes, actually, even this debate, today's discussion of the project makes us agree that this issue must finally be regulated. I think what we're planning in our project, once we've established with the finance minister... We also want to go through a certain consultation procedure, he should be faster than usual, because as far as we can see, there is no dispute. I think I've exhausted, I've answered those questions that... And as for Mrs Dziuk's question about how long we can talk - so I understood - about the introduction of this law, I think we are actually counting in weeks. It is true that June has begun, but as I say, six months is the term when we want our project to join the civil project. We should have a full project before the new budget, taking into account the broader pension aspect of deputies, it should be adopted so that we can already have these issues guaranteed in the new budget from 1 January 2017. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u490	Thank you very much. At the end of this item on the agenda of the sitting of the Sejm, please take the floor of a representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee, Mr Wacław Czerkowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u491	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank you for a very serious approach to the citizens' initiative, for respecting the citizens who have decided to take matters into their own hands, and for respecting their willingness to proceed with the amendment of the law. For all of you agreeing to refer this proposal to the committee, thank you very much. I hope that in the committee we will work as fruitfully on this law as the debate in the plenary room today has been fruitful. I will now move on to the answers to the questions that have been asked to the applicants, namely us. Mr Matusiak asked if we would also talk about 2015 and 2016, when the equivalent was not paid. Of course we're gonna bring this up, because since the first day they were taken away from their deputies, they've been doing everything they can to get these deputies. We see no reason not to talk about these deputies in 2015 and 2016. Mr Długi spoke about civic activity. Indeed, this civic activity was very high. We didn't expect people to be so eager to work for the 100,000. signatures, especially as they had in mind, which had previously been done with various types of civil initiatives, which mostly went to the basket. It was difficult to mobilize people at first, but they believed they could. I hope that when we are halfway there, we will happily come to the end of this road and this civic project will be happy to finish. The Member asked whether this also applies to other regions of Poland and not only Silesia. Of course, miners scattered all over Poland. After all, many miners worked for mining, coming to us, in Silesia, in Zagłębie, from other regions of the country. They retired there and the money that they will receive in the form of deputies will power the economy there, because this money will certainly be spent in those areas, so that it will be some motivation for other regions of Poland to develop industry, because as people are richer, it also the economy is richer. As far as court cases are concerned, court cases were won immediately at the beginning, including in the Coal Company. It was only in appeals or in a different way that it was possible, for example, to process. The Coal Company will have their deputies taken away because the first cases of the retirees won. And it wasn't like the high-paid lawyers made them take their deputies with one hand. Turns out retired people have their own brains, they also have their own patrons. They know the law very well and managed to win first cases. Only then did these famous and highly paid lawyers make it effective to take away these deputies, although this is not entirely said, because a few cases are already being dealt with by the European Court. That is why I said this, that it is better for us to do this so that Europe does not have to deal with our affairs. Mr Romecki spoke about the compromise and the mining plant, whether it will cover mining plants. Of course we're gonna apply for mining plants. I understand that it meant all the PRGs, PBSz, that kind of bets. We are talking about such establishments, where above all labour law is respected, where they are so-called. folder companies, because that's what companies are. It's what we fight all the time. They are unhealthy competition for betting with large traditions, such as PRG, PBSz, where labour law is respected, but therefore there are high labour costs and it is difficult to compete with these portfolio companies in tenders. We fight all the time and, of course, for those workplaces where the miners were covered by collective agreements, where labour law was in force above all, we will try to make it so. Of course, we are ready to compromise. Otherwise, we wouldn't be here if we weren't prepared to compromise. Mr Sitarski asked about taxes. Taxes are paid. The data I was talking about is hard data, it's not made up. This is for 12 years 88 billion, and year by year it's about 5 and 8 billion. Last year we paid PLN 6300 million to the state budget. These data are available and as reliable as possible. Mrs Malik asked about the average pension. We don't have that exact data, but as far as I'm concerned, most pensions are within the range of 2.5,000, 3,000, to over 3,000. Most of them are medium-term pensions. The increase would amount to an average of about 200 PLN per month. Here today the minister calculated that about PLN 1700, so they are similar sums. Of course, there's no problem that this is the way it is. Minister Tobiszowski mentioned the joint procedure, at least that's how I understood the Minister. We're all for it. Let's show for the first time that we don't just have to, I'll say brutally, beat the streets or whatever, but we can work things out together to the happy end, so that the committee can lead to a happy finale of carbon deputies, which I wish to all pensioners and all Members. Thank you very much. God bless you! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u492	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u493	In my previous term of office, I was very keen to draw the attention of the Ministry of Economy to the problem that we are discussing today. It also applies to pensioners from the Silesia mine. By decision of the Management Board of the Coal Company SA in Katowice of September 2014 on the total liquidation of the right of pensioners, pensioners and other eligible persons to free coal - his deputy - since January 2015, a number of pensioners and pensioners, former employees of the Silesia mine, lost their entitlement to the indicated deputy and equivalent for coal for 2015 and the following years. Almost 90% pensioners working in the Silesia mine acquired their rights before the formation of the Coal Company SA. The decision to deprive former miners of the right to equivalent was made in accordance with the Labour Code, but in an arbitrary manner. I have a question for the Minister of Energy, who, in response to my interpretation this January, wrote that he and the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy intend to set up an internal team of people who will develop assumptions on how to address the problem of coal debt in mining. Minister: What has the team established so far? Has he even formed himself? Please respond in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u494	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the citizens' draft law amending the Act of 7 September 2007 on the functioning of hard coal mining contained in print No 461, to the Energy and Treasury Commission for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. In this way, we have concluded item 23 of the agenda for today's sitting. Thank you guys for coming. If you'd like to stay, and if you don't, I wish everyone a happy trip home, because we're staying until Friday. I would like to inform you that the planned item 24 of the agenda: The report of the Social Policy Committee and the Family on the draft law amending the Act on occupational and social rehabilitation and the employment of persons with disabilities and certain other laws will not be considered at the current meeting of the Sejm. The Health Commission has submitted a report on a government draft law amending the Law on Medical Activity and some other laws. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The competent committees have submitted reports on the Senate resolutions on the laws: - amending the Act on registration and protection of the names and designations of agricultural products and foodstuffs and on traditional products and certain other laws, - the Bank Guarantee Fund, the deposit guarantee scheme and the compulsory restructuring, - the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services. The reports shall be printed in no. 597, 603 and 596 respectively. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95f of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, Marshal of the Sejm, decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the examination of these reports. I propose that the Sejm listen to three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle in discussions on these items on the agenda. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 25 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the draft law amending the Act on the amendment of the Tax Administration Act and the Act on the amendment of the Tax Order Act and some other laws (prints Nos 563 and 588). I ask Mr Sylvester Tulayev to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u495	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a great honour and duty to present a report to the Committee on Public Finance on the draft law amending the Act on amending the Act on Tax Administration and the Act amending the Act on Tax Ordination and some other laws, print No. 563. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, sent the above draft law to the Committee on Public Finance for first reading on 6 June 2016. The Public Finance Commission met on 8 June, carried out the first reading of this project, as well as considered this draft law and requested the adoption of a draft law from print no. 588. The justification for the bill was very thorough and very detailed by the applicant Wojciech Murdzek. I would like to add that intensive conceptual work and analysis are currently underway to prepare a draft law on the national tax administration, which takes into account some of the solutions contained in the Tax Administration Act, but above all provides for comprehensive changes to the administration of the finance minister. Both the subject-matter and the proposed law on the national tax administration is much broader than the tax administration law. It is also assumed that the essential part of the provisions of the National Tax Administration Act will enter into force on 1 January 2017. It would therefore not be necessary to implement the amendments provided for in the Tax Administration Act only for a few months. In this context, it is justified to postpone the date of entry into force of the Tax Administration Act of 1 July 2016 to 1 January 2017, which will ensure preparation for the consolidation of the tax administration, customs and tax control units in order to effectively and functionally carry out the tasks of the national tax administration. The Public Finance Commission rejected the proposal to reject the draft law at first reading when discussing this project. The Commission also adopted one legislative amendment to change the title of the project. It is no longer a draft law amending the law on amending the law on tax administration, which is a law amending the law on amending the law on tax administration and the law on amending the law on tax administration and certain other laws. The Committee on Public Finance requests the adoption of a draft law presented in print no. 588. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u496	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. I will ask Mr Wojciech Murdzk to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u497	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice fully supports the proposed changes. As your marshal noted, it's a little complicated. I'm about to report an amendment on behalf of the club, which will simplify by looking at this change. The changes are certainly going in the right direction, because we realise that not only the issue of good law, but also the issue of the frequency of change is quite important. If we had left the rules in the current form, the law would have come in pretty soon, because it was foreseen that in the middle of the year. And we realize that both taxpayers would be forced to learn new solutions as well as the entire system associated with offices, as well as officials would have to make this change in their procedures. This is indeed not advisable given that the work on the national tax administration is advanced and we will most likely be talking more about this project at the next meeting. Therefore, in order not to increase any unnecessary confusion, it is proposed that changes in the tax administration, also in correlation with major systemic changes in the national tax administration, enter into force at the beginning of the year, i.e. January 2017. I think that this way of thinking that respects taxpayers and officials and saves additional confusion will find acceptance in the High House. On the other hand, on your hand, the marshal will make an amendment that changes a bit of optics. As regards the entry into force of the Act, amendments will continue to be proposed from 1 January 2017, but the reference point will be the Act of the Act of 10 July, not the Act amending the Act, is to replicate this amendment from December, the deadline itself. I think it's also looking at this change in date of entry into force that just simplifies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u498	Thank you very much, sir. And to speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I will ask Mr Arthur Gierada. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u499	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Civic Platform Club a position on the draft law contained in print 563. I will say this at the beginning: I was very amused by the words of the rapporteur speaking on behalf of the committee about how the applicant detailed and meticulously presented the reasons for this law, because the whole act, as well as this justification, are simply a mockery of the Polish taxpayer, and it is difficult to call it a law. Technically, that's what it's called, but it has to be emphasized that it is only a legal act that blocks the entry of a very good law, and the title of the law itself is longer, you can say - see, this is the title of the law - from the content of the law. I can't understand why you're doing this, all the more so because, let me remind you, we were debating this law in the last term of the Sejm, it was supposed to come into force on January 1st, you've extended it by six months, now you're doing it again, using a completely different justification, while this is the bill that everyone was expecting and for which the Law and Justice Club voted. I'll just remind you what this bill contains. brings, and I will only say the two most important things, because there are many very good changes there. Among other things, it provides uniform and universal access to tax information and creates offices of National Tax Information. We all say for a long time that there should be a convergence of laws in Poland. Under the Civic Platform, it was increasingly centralized, and finally we managed to create a system within which we can do this together today, and it is already prepared for it to work. Besides, it is not only a question of the fact that the Polish taxpayer today is treated in one part of the country and may be treated differently, it is a question of really elementary fairness in the approach to the taxpayer, so that he knows whether he can properly pay the tax. On the other hand, it is also a system that creates information offices, which will help the officials of the fiscus, because it is officials who are often forced to give an interpretation, often binding, and often have to build on some kind of examples or cassies that have taken place before. This helps them to make decisions and protects them from being judged by others as being too restrictive or too easy to go to the hands of an entrepreneur. The second important issue, very important, and especially for Polish taxpayers, concerns a change in the philosophy of approach to contacts, among others. With a fiscus and an entrepreneur. You know that it was often the case that taxpayers - maybe Warsaw is not particularly concerned, there are many companies here, but it concerns smaller towns - even they were afraid to apply for an interpretation because they said that if they were to apply for an interpretation, they would be in control for some time. We introduced this law, among others. solutions such as the taxpayer's service centre, the role of the taxpayer's assistant, with whom it will be possible to communicate, or electronic means of communication. You were also behind this because you can't be against it, but what philosophy are you introducing today? On the one hand, you praise this, but I will remind you of a recipe that will come into force probably in 30 days, because it was a vacathio legis, and today the president signed an amendment to the Tax Order, which we had adopted not so long ago. You guys over there, for example. You're introducing a tax avoidance clause. I'll say yes, because we're talking about that clause, too. We have said, especially when we have introduced the principle of in dubio pro tributario, which had to be introduced, because if there are people who often carry out fictional activities so as not to pay taxes or lower them, then they should be punished for it, but it is often the case that entrepreneurs do not know whether they can take certain actions that may be lawful, and in our proposal we say this: we give certain instruments, we give a helper to a given entrepreneur. What did you bring in? It'll be in effect in 30 days. Of course, such a binding interpretation will also be available to the entrepreneur, but he must pay a charity of 20,000. zł. These are your actions. We worked out this bill together and just to remind you that in December, when this law was supposed to come into force from January, you said that it did not come in because there was no prepared fiscal apparatus. The camera was prepared, as we spoke out loud, and since September in 50 Polish offices piloting was carried out and it worked very well, everyone was happy with it, but you only cared about one thing, as this law, among others. also introduces elements of competitions for management functions in the fiscal apparatus. Today you own this camera, tax houses, tax offices, you have your people there, but today you don't say that this bill doesn't come in because the offices aren't prepared. Today you've come up with the idea that you're introducing a new consolidation of the administration, [[♪ The bell ♪]] National Tax Administration. Only what the gingerbread has to do with the windmill if the law actually gives the tools to the officials. Whether or not this official is going to be named anyway, he's got these tools that are very good and we've been waiting for. I'd have a lot of questions, and I could dwell on it, but there's no time, so I'm going to end it and say one thing: I'm really ashamed that the good bill you voted for, you're holding back today, I can't understand it. The Civic Platform Club will certainly be against what you are proposing, i.e. this law, which the good solutions that should have been in place since January, are holding back. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u500	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, on behalf of the Kukiz15 club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u501	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The amendment that we are considering and the one we are debating at the moment is another in the series: we do not know what it is, but for this we are taking a diet, pretending that we are working, and the Polish taxpayer still does not know what it stands for. We would very much like the Polish taxpayer to know what rules and what taxes he pays, so that the law is simple, respected, that the tax official should not be you, but be a partner and cooperate with the taxpayer. So far, every six months, we either change the date of the Act's entry into force, or we completely change the concept of implementing the Tax Order. In fact, before the Polish taxpayer another six months of chaos, another six months of uncertainty, which the new government will figure out in terms of tax administration, in terms of how taxes are paid, in terms of perhaps the amount of taxes paid. We still have a tax revolution. We still have uncertainty. It doesn't lead to anything good, nothing but chaos. Here we have just dealt with a certain element of extortion, in quotes, Members of what they have been working on and what results they have come to. Well, gentlemen, you've worked, you've worked, it's all gone to waste, and the taxpayer has paid for it in the form of your diets or your salaries. And what was the job for? Who does it serve? Now again, you will argue and prove to each other that you have better bill designs, that you have a better concept, and the Polish taxpayer is still being harassed by an all-powerful official, still paying too much taxes, there is no benefit from your work. It can't be like this anymore. Please, Members, in a very colloquial way, get your shit together and decide because the Polish taxpayer will run away from you as you continue to rule as you continue to implement such tax law. 4 million young people went abroad, among others. because it could no longer endure such procedures of introducing tax law and such attitudes, which did not respect the Polish taxpayer, which did not respect the Polish entrepreneur. I call on you to reconsider whether tax policy in this way, the introduction of ordination and tax rules is the best way to stop young people in Poland. If you continue to do so, everyone will be in England, where the rules are simple, where the rules are clear, where every six months there is no change of the date of implementation of the law, every year there is no change of law and mode, nor any speculation about whether the interpretation is binding, whether the interpretation is non-binding, what the official has the right to do and what the official has no right to do and when he has the right to carry out control. Enough. Once again, as the young people would say, get your shit together, fellow Members. This is no longer the case for financial policy, tax policy in the field of entrepreneurs, in the field of Polish taxpayers. This procedure needs to be changed, the approach to the Polish taxpayer needs to be changed, because it is the Polish taxpayer who maintains the Members and legislators, and not the legislators who maintain the Polish taxpayer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u502	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Pampuch, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u503	Dear Marshal! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! Minister! On behalf of the Poselski Club Modern presentation of the position on the draft law amending the law... Yes? Not changing anymore? [[Changing the bill.]] ... amending the Act amending the Tax Administration Act and the Act amending the Tax Ordination Act and certain other laws. This draft law is again a parliamentary submission. That indicates an infirmity in the government. Does the government, even with such a short bill, simply extending the entry into force of the Tax Administration Act of 1 July 2016 as at 1 January 2017, have to contribute to the submission of a message? But I'm getting to the point. Indeed, you are moving the entry into force of the law, which was adopted in the previous term of the Sejm by consensus, by the next six months. Once again, by 6 months you are deferring the entry into force of the tax tools that Polish taxpayers were waiting for. But the question is: Why do you want to throw all your tools in the basket? You want to throw in a basket a tool consisting of approximate tax authorities to taxpayers, including. in the direct service of taxpayers at the tax office, through assistance to micro-enterprises starting business, establishing direct relations with newly created entrepreneurs, providing them with information on the fulfilment of their statements, tax returns or assistance in individual taxpayers' cases, including the choice of the form of taxation. Another tool that goes to the basket is to support the taxpayer by setting up service centres for the proper fulfilment of tax obligations or a tool in the form of a central tax information system. All of this, all of these solutions you want to replace, convert into oppressive towards the taxpayer the national tax administration system, indicating that it is supposed to be a comprehensive solution. Indeed, this law, although its content is only related to the issue of shifting the entry into force of the Act about six months, is de facto throwing into the basket important elements which Polish taxpayers were looking forward to. Hence the club The modern will not support this change. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u504	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mrs Genowefa Tokarska from the club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u505	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the Committee on Public Finances on the Parliamentary draft law. And here maybe I won't read the whole thing anymore, these are 563 and 588 prints. The draft law concerns the transfer of the date of entry into force of the Tax Administration Act of 1 July 2016 to 1 January 2017. I would like to remind you that the date of entry into force of the Act, which is precisely the date of entry into force of the Tax Administration, has already been postponed once by the Act of 16 December 2015. The deadline of 1 January 2016 was then amended to 1 July 2016. Further amendments to the deadlines concern this basic Tax Administration Act of 10 July 2015 which introduced certain improvements and improvements in the functioning of the tax administration and created the conditions for taxpayers to perform tax obligations better. The Act defined the tasks and organisation of the tax administration, provided service and support for the taxpayer in the proper performance of his duties, inter alia. the mobilisation of the taxpayer's assistant institution and service centres. A law that was welcomed by taxpayers and was supported almost by the entire High House, including by Members of Law and Justice, today's applicants, by a further delay in the date of entry into force of that law. The applicants justify a further delay in the work on the draft law on the national tax administration, whose scope is supposed to be much wider than the tax administration law and whose entry into force is planned just on 1 January 2017. This time is intended to ensure preparation for consolidation of tax administration units, Customs Service, tax control. The first reading of the print project 563 discussed today took place at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance yesterday. Many members of the committee did not share the view of the applicant's representative that the project submitted was of a rapid nature. In the course of the discussion, it was stressed that the Act of 10 July 2015 provided very many good solutions to taxpayers, which could already be applied. Unfortunately, none of the representatives of the applicants or of the government has explained what specific changes will be made to the national tax administration project. The proposal to reject the project at first reading did not obtain a majority of the members of the Committee on Public Finance and the votes of the applicants, Members of Law and Justice, was rejected. The work only changed the title of the project and was adopted for submission to the High House. The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party cannot support the project once again extending the date of entry into force of a good bill expected by taxpayers, and almost a year ago also supported by almost the entire High House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u506	Thank you very much. On behalf of Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, the Free and Solidarnia Circle of Members. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u507	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Tax Administration Act in its original version was to enter into force on 1 January 2016. By Act of 16 December 2015 on the amendment of the Tax Administration Act and the Act on the amendment of the Tax Order Act and certain other laws, the date of entry into force of the Act was postponed to 1 July 2016. According to the project's creators, the delay in the implementation of this law involves work carried out in parallel on a comprehensive draft of the National Tax Administration Act. This law is due to enter into force on 1 January 2017. It therefore seems reasonable that the laws in question should enter into force within a single period of time. Due to the functionality of the project, it does not raise my objections. The contested law is intended to help improve the functioning of the tax administration and to create the possibility for taxpayers to properly carry out their tax obligations. The Free and Solidarni Circle will support the bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u508	Thank you very much. Five members were included in the list of Members. Anybody else want to sign in? I can't see. I'm closing the list. I would ask Mrs Iwona Michalek, the Law and Justice Club, to ask her first question. Time - one and a half minutes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u509	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! According to the information provided by the Ministry of Finance, it is planned to implement the present National Tax Administration Act from 1 January 2017. The transfer of the date of entry into force of the Tax Administration Act on 1 January 2017 is therefore intended to ensure good preparation for the consolidation of tax administration units, Customs Service and tax control. Mr Artur Gierada from the Civic Platform said very emotionally that we are massacres and throw everything in the trash. I have a question for the applicant. How many changes from the Tax Administration Act of 10 July 2015 have already entered into force, showing the continuity of the activities of the Ministry of Finance? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u510	Thank you very much. Another question, Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, a club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u511	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Today, we are revisiting a new bill on practically the same issue. My previous speakers have already spoken on a number of issues regarding the content, the motivations, the need for such legislation to become effective. I have a question for the applicants. Let us not imagine that those who are economically active in the field expect only, without any interest in the subject, our decisions and judgments. In the field, it is increasingly said that the parallel draft law on National Tax Administration will put the functioning of the fiscal apparatus in the existing structures into question. So I have a question for the applicants - if it were a government project, I would direct it to the Minister of Finance. In what structures, if finally the legislation is in force, which we will finally adopt, if it starts [[♪ The bell ♪]] will he be used, will the tasks be carried out? Will the number of tax officials increase, and will the location of the individual links of this apparatus not be changed, or will they remain in those places where they are so far? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u512	Thank you. The next question will be asked by Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u513	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The purpose of the parliamentary bill is to postpone the date of entry into force of the Act of 10 July 2015 on tax administration by another six months. Is six months enough? I'm afraid not. The explanatory memorandum states that ongoing work on the drafting of the National Tax Administration Act is the reason for the delay. However, it is worth noting that the adoption of the Act on National Tax Administration is only the beginning of the organization of tax services. It's a consolidation of 60,000. employees, so a very large organizational undertaking. Already today, draft statutes of the tax administration, customs and treasury offices, tax offices and national tax information offices should be prepared to prepare for the organisation of new structures. So I have a question for you. When will we receive the draft law on National Tax Administration and what is the state of preparation for the implementation of the new tax organisation? Isn't this work delayed? It's just that we don't have to reschedule in a minute. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u514	Thank you very much. Another question, Mr Janusz Cichoń, also the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u515	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We have a parliamentary project, and I actually figured out why - because it doesn't need an OSR. And in this context, I would like to ask the Minister what the consequences of this omission are, because that is what I would like to call it. The transfer of the entry into force of the Tax Administration Act is such an omission. Let me remind you that this is a law that improves the efficiency of the tax system, improves the functioning of tax authorities, supports the taxpayer and therefore improves voluntary fulfilment of tax obligations. This is also due to fear, which paralyzes the entire tax administration today, against the phantom of the KAS. I would like to ask, therefore, what are the consequences in financial terms. How much did we lose on this omission and putting this trial off? In this context, I would also like to ask about the CAS, because here, in turn, we have again a formula, in my opinion, absolutely unacceptable, even outrageous, when it comes to reforming the state. If the KAS, which is to be the foundation [[♪ The bell ♪]] In fact, we are preparing you in the formula of the parliamentary project, which means that we do not assume a public consultation at all, that once again there is no OSR. This is really unacceptable. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u516	Thank you very much. Another question, Mr Gierda, the club... [[Voice from the room:]] ... He's farting. I am so sorry, sir. I've already changed my gender today, and I'm changing your name, but I hope it works out together. The Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u517	Thank you very much, Marshal. In my case, it happens, but in your case... I don't know who could have made such a mistake. High Izbo! Minister! Mrs Iwona Michalek, when she asked the question, said that my speech was a very emotional speech. Really here these emotions are and are understandable. I still can't understand why, since we've adopted good solutions together, they haven't been able to come into force for six months and they won't come into force for another six months. But thank you for that question, because I'm going in the same direction you were talking about. I doubt it can be defended, but my question really will be a question in the same direction. I think it'll just be a little more specific. Minister, we have asked various questions in the committee, you or the representatives of the Ministry said that they will not refer to our questions, because they concern a bill, which is not yet in place, about the National Tax Administration - there is no printing, there is nothing to debate. However, there is something to debate, so take it seriously. How can we not debate something that you're referring to in your own justification? I will also quote part of the justification: However, at present intensive conceptual work and analysis are underway to prepare a draft law on the National Tax Administration, which takes into account some of the solutions contained in the Act. Especially the other part. The explanatory memorandum states: it takes account of some of the solutions contained in the Act. That's why I'm asking you which specific solutions are taken into account and which ones are not. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u518	Thank you very much. You asked Artur Gierada from the Civic Platform club. And now the question will be asked by Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club. Now I'm not mistaken, sir. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u519	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It is precisely with regard to the latter part of the justification of this law that I have a specific question about centralising the tax information system. A specialised tax authority was to be set up, the primary task of which was to provide uniform and publicly available tax information. This is extremely important for all taxpayers who move really in a very complicated matter of tax law. Is this gonna be in the KAS bill? And if there is not, what financial expenditure did the Polish State incur to implement this system? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u520	Thank you very much. In this way, we have exhausted the list of Members and Members of the House. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Marian Banasi. You're welcome. [[If you don't mind, Marshal, maybe me first.]] If you don't mind the Minister, you're welcome. This will be the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Sylvester Tulaev. [[No, it's gonna be an applicant.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u521	Your Marshal, as I understand it, has a number of questions in the future, they are addressed to the Ministry of Finance and we will certainly get an answer to them today. On the other hand, there were also issues related to the initiative of applicants, which I would like to respond to. I think that with the exception of the Free and Solidarnia wheels, all the previous speakers made one major mistake that they did not read into the contents of the Law of December last year, because it is not so that it concerned the extension of the date of entry into force of the entire Act, but introduced the entry into force of parts of the articles. And the fact is that 10 articles in whole or in part entered into force in 2015, a dozen articles entered into force at the beginning of this year, and this amendment of December just assumed a faster entry into force of some solutions. For example, in this speech, which we have heard, we have been talking about the whole package on interpretation or possibly certain steps related to digitalisation, I would like to say that many of these solutions have been included in the article. 45 of this initial law and they entered into force in accordance with the December amendment. Art. 45 contains 18 detailed points and they just came into force. Art. 57, which speaks of the National Tax Information Office, according to the original provision of the Act entered after the date of the announcement, i.e. practically immediately. It is therefore important to reassure you that a number of these good practices have already entered into force, and those that are still to be extended will simply be correlated with the work in question as regards the National Tax Administration in order to avoid the chaos and the introduction of something temporary. Therefore, it is worth to get acquainted with those regulations that have already entered into force, and not create an image that the entire bill adopted in July last year stands in the booths, because it is simply a false thesis, and I think it needs to be said out loud. On the other hand, I also think that what awaits us will surely be heard, but the boldness of the applicants was also that, after consulting the Ministry, we accepted the Ministry's assurance that practically the draft law on the National Tax Administration is ready and will be prosecuted any moment. In just a few days you will probably be able to get acquainted with him and satisfy your curiosity, and later we will probably work out this project to best serve the whole system of public finances. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u522	The applicant's representative Mr Wojciech Murdzek took the floor. And now we ask Minister Marian Banasi to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u523	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As my previous speaker has already said, the draft Tax Administration Act has already been submitted to the Sejm and any moment now - this is a matter of maybe the next sitting - will be discussed. So that you will have the opportunity and opportunity to get a thorough look at the details which regulations - regarding today's bill - will be there. I just want to say that most of these provisions have also been included in this law. On the other hand, on the specifics that you have raised here - in terms of centralisation, for example. tax information in KAS, it will go further because it will also include customs information. It will simply be centralised and will facilitate the operation of the business because all customs-related and tax-related matters will be found in one place and a uniform tax interpretation will be presented. So that it will certainly go further and facilitate business activity. It is precisely this idea that we have been guided in this direction to go, and all these matters relating to facilitating the conduct of business, which were also included in the Tax Administration Act, which we are talking about today, will also be included in this Act. With regard to the structures, please countries, we believe that, in order to carry out all reforms smoothly, but also to carry out tasks, in the first phase, this activity will be based on the structure of the tax offices, customs offices will be attached to the tax offices, so that taxpayers who are already accustomed and are dealt with in the offices concerned can continue to do so so so that there is no certain disorganization here. As far as the consequences are concerned, ladies and gentlemen, there are no consequences here, because only in the first quarter, which we counted precisely, our collections were much higher and the collection of taxes and duties was higher than in the first quarter of last year. So this proves that even without the introduction of legal changes at the moment, we were able to improve this activity and improve the efficiency of downloadability by means of organizational changes only. Ladies and gentlemen, so much for this. I would also like to say on behalf of the Government that the amendment to the parliamentary draft law amending the Act on amending the Tax Administration Act and the Tax Order Act and certain other laws will postpone the date of entry into force of the Act of 10 July 2015 on Tax Administration of 1 July 2016 to 1 January. The Minister of Finance supports this amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u524	Thank you very much. The rapporteur of the committee, Mr Sylvester Tulaev, will also speak. [[No.]] No? So we have a shorter time to debate this point. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, an amendment was tabled to the proposed bill, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 26 of the agenda: the report of the Health Commission on the government draft law amending the Law on Medical Activity and some other laws (prints Nos 562 and 604). I ask Mr Tomasz Latos to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u525	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the committee on the draft law amending the law on medicinal activities and certain other laws, prints Nos 562 and 604 respectively. The Commission today met and held a very wide and turbulent debate on this draft law twice. A great deal has been discussed, especially as regards the issue of the possibility for the local government to finance medical services. This matter seemed controversial to some parliamentarians, and there was a particularly large discussion around it, involving both Members and representatives of the local government invited by the chairman of the committee. Later, after moving to work on this law, the work was smooth and the law was adopted, which is noted in the committee's relevant report. Thank you very much, Marshal, for my late time, I will no longer discuss in detail what was going on at the committee meeting. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u526	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. I will ask Mr Krzysztof Ostrowski to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u527	Dear Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present the position of the club on the government draft law amending the law on medicinal activities and certain other laws. The project aims to improve the activities of SPOZs and consequently to increase the availability of medical services for citizens. The proposed changes are systemic in nature, relate to a wide legal environment, therapeutic activities in many aspects. Since this is the second reading of the draft law, there was also a discussion in the Committee on Health, where I presented the proposed amendments in detail, I think it is not advisable to repeat this argument. I would like to focus on the opposition's doubts which the opposition put forward in the discussion, whether at first reading or in the Health Committee. In summary and combining arguments, opposition concerns, I would like to say that the proposed changes according to the opposition result in the transfer of responsibility for health care from the Government of Law and Justice to local governments. It's been a lot of times. I can comment on it this way: well, honourable opposition, everyone thinks after themselves. It was the Platform and PSL coalition that used the National Health Fund as a shield, among others. To take the responsibility for health care off your chest. We have a different philosophy. We stand in the truth, we take all responsibility for health care on our own, or actually for its main problem, which is poor or very poor availability of medical services. This is, in our view, the main problem. I would like to point out that we only create the possibility for local governments to purchase benefits, but we do not force them to do so. It's a long way from being held accountable to local governments. Your next reservation is to bring this amendment to collapse or collapse, or even - as one of your colleagues said - the liquidation of local governments. Ladies and gentlemen, you must have a lot of bad will to interpret the proposed changes. The next thing you've often raised is that change is supposedly hitting economic freedom, the free management of wealth. This was our idea of banning dividend payments or the prohibition on the sale of shares, shares or shares by capital companies with the participation of the State Treasury or local government units, or, finally, universities, if they were to lose control of the medical entity. And where is the concept of non-profit health service, which is so popular in most European countries? I will remind you of the countries in the south: Portugal, Spain, Italy, France, Scandinavia, United Kingdom. I can tell you, my dear, that we have nothing else. we do not propose a return to Europe. After all, this profit is intended for the equipment and salaries of employees. The fourth thing you've often mentioned is the way you cover the net loss that you think will lead to the liquidation of hospitals. One of my colleagues -- I'm gonna spare my name, I'm not gonna mention it through sympathy for my colleague -- he even said here that this bill would bring down 40%. hospitals in Poland. I just want to remind you that this was already the case: before 1997 the law on health care facilities was in force, it was the law that was in force, and the hospitals were not liquidated. In conclusion, I would like to say that the bill is indeed urgent and necessary. In addition to improving the operation of SPOZs and increasing the availability of medical services, the process of wild privatisation will be halted, which is progressing, among others. by deliberately indebting hospitals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u528	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Rajmund Miller will perform on behalf of the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u529	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I have the honour to present the position of the club vis-à-vis the government's draft law amending the Act on Medical Activity and some other laws, print No. 562. In fact, today was the meeting of the Health Committee on this law, at which we received the expected opinion of BAS. This opinion crushed this bill and the way it was processed. This is another bill that PiS is trying to push through in scandalous mode, in almost three days' mode, but two days, ladies and gentlemen, because the first reading ended... [[Voice from the O.R.:]] Yeah, okay. ...three o'clock last night or tonight. [[Voice from the room: Today.]] Yes, exactly today. Ladies and gentlemen, I will read the opinion of BAS: an analysis of the provisions of the bill in question within the deadline set for the task to be carried out; it was not possible to examine all aspects of the proposed amendment within the deadline set for the task to be carried out. Ladies and gentlemen, BAS is writing about this, and you are asking Members to push this bill through. Next: the provisions of the project raise constitutional doubts, which require in-depth analysis. Yesterday, ladies and gentlemen, I was talking about the fact that according to what representatives of Polish cities, unions of powiats, marshals of voivodships have reported, this law violates many articles of the Constitution, including art. 20, Art. 164 and Article 164 167. This law neither improves the working conditions of health care, nor improves the access of patients to medical services, even vice versa, this law - I will repeat what I said in the committee - is a nail to the coffin of Polish health services. Ladies and gentlemen, the position of the PiS is borne out by the request made by one of the Members of the PiS during the process of concluding the discussion before the representatives of the local authorities were able to speak. And there were representatives of local governments, both representatives of the Marshals' Convention of Voivodships, as well as representatives of Polish cities' associations, as well as of powiats. In all statements it was clearly said that it is a law of evil, that it is a law that practically paralyzes Polish health care. The most outrageous thing is that you really want to shift the costs of maintaining multiple hospitals, yes, sir, 40%. hospitals in Poland that are in debt today. You have stated in the Act that within 9 months the founding bodies, i.e. local governments, must cover the net losses. Otherwise, you also wrote down the obligation to liquidate these facilities. Now explain this to the people in the county, in the cities where the hospitals will be closed, because you've already hit the local governments so hard with the six-year-olds bill, taking the local government's money to do business in the case of schools, that local governments are already doing sides. You want to do the same thing today when it comes to medicine. I know what you're going to do, you just prepared the terms of this bill so that society would be against local governments, so that before the municipal elections in two and a half years, people would burden local governments with what PiS committed to. It's the country on the election program that you talked about setting up a network of hospitals, three degrees of reference. What networks, since 40% You want to bring down hospitals? [[Why 40%?]] What's wrong with a situation where the hospital can privatize? Show me the hospitals where this privatisation... [[But how did you...]] Mr Latos, I did not disturb you. You were very active on the committee, taking the floor of the local government. Please don't bother me at the moment either. [[But why the 40%?]] Please read the data. [[Applause]] Marshal, I submit two requests. One, farthest, or the rejection of this evil law at second reading. If this proposal does not work, we are proposing five amendments, which I hope will improve this law at least to a small extent and allow local governments to work. Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u530	Thank you very much. Now the Kukiz Club15. Here you go, Mr Jerzy Kozłowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u531	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Poselski Club15 on the report of the Health Commission on the draft law amending the law on medicinal activities and certain other laws. The bill concerns an extremely important sphere, the health system. As this system looks like today, I think we all know: indebted hospitals, queues to specialists, long-term deadlines for operations. These are just some of the most important problems. Undoubtedly, the system requires reforms, but wise and reasonable. Changes to such an important law should be made without unnecessary haste and with due care, at least I think, and this is the procedure I expected from the applicant. Today, at the meeting of the Committee on Health, we received a legal opinion on the government's draft above or properly previously mentioned law, issued by the Office for Sejm Analysis. Already on the first page of this opinion we read that the provisions of the project raise constitutional doubts. Why make a bad law in haste? What is the purpose of giving the urgency procedure to such an important project, even though the government at the committee meeting considered the September deadline for implementing the law to be reasonable? What's the hurry? I'll answer that. The government wants to give local governments responsibility for health care as soon as possible. The government has a problem with indebted hospitals, and for their negative financial result, it wants to punish local governments, not considering that this is often the result of many years of underestimation of medical procedures by the National Health Fund. This isn't the way. Good law doesn't like speed. In peace, let us bow to the reform of the Polish medical system. Don't go proceding like a tank or you're gonna run over patients. Think about the effects of your legislative waltz. You will introduce that the inhabitants of rich municipalities will have incomparably better treatment conditions than those of Poles who live in poorer regions of the country. Such unthinkable actions may endanger the lives of many groups of patients. You want to give up your obligation to have medical accident insurance by the SPOZs, you're motivating that hospitals can't afford to pay high insurance rates. So will the hospital afford to pay high compensation to the victims? The adoption of this law will prevent Poles from having equal access to healthcare services. This clearly violates Art. Article 68 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 constitutions. The standard of this care will vary widely across the country and will depend to a large extent on the level of income of individual local government units. Therefore, everything I said earlier, the Kukiz Poselski Club15 will vote against this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u532	Thank you very much. Modern Posel Club, Mr Marek Ruciński. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u533	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present my position on behalf of the Poselski Club and to refer to the government's draft law on amending the law on medicinal activities. Before I go to the point, I would like to express my deepest outrage at the method of proceding the 562 print project. The implementation of a key reform not only without serious discussion, but also in conditions that do not allow us to listen to our deliberations, is an expression of total disrespect for Poles and Poles, including both patients and employees of the state health service. Back to the project. You're putting a system on top of your head anyway. I will briefly point out once again the worst ideas contained in the project: the introduction of restrictions on the disposal of private parties' shares or shares by medicinal entities acting in the form of capital companies. We already mentioned several articles of the Constitution in this Chamber yesterday that are being broken by this regulation. I'll remind you of the article. 20, the basis of the economic system of Poland. Secondly, the prohibition on the payment of dividends in capital companies with the majority share of the State Treasury, i.e. in any establishment operating in the form of a capital company. I think it's some new, previously unknown, kind of company. Finally, thirdly, the transfer of responsibility for covering financial losses to hospitals in which this country, and thus you, will, in fact, rule under the threat of the entity making the decision to liquidate it. Does 40% due to financial losses in the years 2012 and 2014 you intend to liquidate them all, I asked yesterday and I repeat this question, because the state itself in the explanatory memorandum states that 40% Is the hospital losing that kind of money? This is all in the name of improving the financial situation, improving the quality of health services or improving the conditions for patients' treatment. The ideas proposed in the project are an expression of peerellian sentiments or sentiments, because they are based on pseudolegal statements of ownership or the functioning of entrepreneurship in the market economy. A way to improve the financial situation of public establishments could be, for example, a way to improve the financial situation of public establishments. their reasonable restructuring or increasing their financial efficiency through a number of business procedures, which the state simply cannot understand. The Modern Club will, of course, vote against the proposed law. If you don't mind, Marshal, I would like to address the Member. With all your sentiments and friendship to the city you come from, please don't change my words. I was asking if these hospitals were 40%. I wasn't talking about their liquidation. Thank you very much. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u534	Thank you very much. I would ask Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish to speak on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u535	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! This is a bad day for the development of Polish health services. It hasn't even been 24 hours since we started proceding this bill. No chance, although it appeared during the day, we thought there was a chance that you would change your mind and the government side would give it some thought. Mr Sosnierz encouraged you to do so because it would probably be much easier to adopt this law. This is an unacceptable way of working on such solutions that will not improve the situation of Polish patients. This is the first, and probably the biggest, minus the whole solution, which will not lead to the fact that it will be easier to get to a specialist, that procedures will be better rewarded, that there will be a better valuation of points in pediatrics, internships, in specializations which, unfortunately, have been underestimated for years. It's not going to be all you're proposing, the possibilities, although there's probably good elements there. As in any major change, there are also those who deserve to be supported, but all of them deserve what Mr Rajmund Miller said, to be rejected entirely in the second reading. Unfortunately, you do not give us the chance to work honestly and really on solutions for local Poland, Polish health services, patients and employees. What is alarming is that most of the questions we asked at the committee meeting are not answered. You can't explain how the hospital will distinguish between a patient who's from a locality. This, of course, can be done after PESEL, by address, etc., but it cannot be distinguished in terms of access to health care. You're gonna make three train lists from three cities or three towns for each other? You will bring great chaos. You guys were already pulling out of the land bill changes today because you can't take credit. A farmer can't take a mortgage on his land to build a house or give his child a chance to build a house. That's what you're pulling out of after three months. From these changes you will withdraw, in my opinion, even more quickly. It's not good that you didn't listen to your self-governments, I don't get it at all. Because you have doubts about what PSL says, Platform, Modern, Kukiz15, then I am able to understand, we are other political formations. But call your old men, your marshals, the presidents, and ask them how they approach the fact that since the new law comes into force, they will be the National Health Fund for bis, because in an obvious way... No, worse, the National Health Fund has at least funding because it has a health contribution, and here is the same share of the tax, and a huge new, great task imposed on the local government. This is what I am talking about most, because, of course, as the Polish People's Party, we are a natural representative of the local government, so it is difficult not to show it in the first place. You also put universities, whose mission is double, in front of a difficult situation. On the one hand, These are the centres with the highest references - clinical hospitals, university hospitals, on the other hand - training for doctors, nurses, paramedics, physiotherapists, all medical staff. They don't have the money to pay for any more medical services today, very specialized. You touch a few areas without giving solutions without giving an idea. The recipes you've written, the recipes you've written in this bill, it's impossible to implement anywhere, because she's covered. There's no wholesaler, there's no pharmacy that's gonna make that prescription. It's a shame those 24 hours, less than 24 hours, didn't give you the kind of reflection that would lead to a change of conduct. I do not understand the gigantic haste of this act, because it will not change the situation of Polish patients tomorrow - it will not shorten the queues, it will not improve availability, it will not improve the quality of medical activities. And that's the biggest charge we're making on this bill. We will vote against these solutions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u536	Thank you very much. I would ask Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan to speak on behalf of the Circle of Members of the Free and Solidarni. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u537	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law on amending the law on medicinal activities and some other laws causes a lot of controversy. It was so exciting to process the project in the Health Committee that it had to be interrupted several times. Ladies and gentlemen, not the emotions here should prevail, but common sense. Let's try to build something. Let's talk constructively. In my opinion, the bill contains a lot of good solutions, which I have already talked about in my earlier position. Of course, I have doubts that perhaps the bill should be passed slower and then it would not cause so much excitement. On the other hand, I know that time is important, because not as we heard yesterday in this Chamber, that changes are too slow to change the health system, because people expect better organisation of work and higher wages. So I understand the rush. From the opponents of this novel I hear that it shifts responsibility for health care to local governments. I wonder who can't read, or maybe we've read two different projects. [[Oh, come on.]] The bill only talks about the possibility for local governments to finance medical services. It does not impose such an obligation on them. As the practice points out, so far there has been no such possibility, and there have been cases where local governments wanted to take advantage of this option. That is why it seems reasonable to make this change. Once again, no one imposes such an obligation on local governments. No one transfers the financing of medical services to local governments, and therefore it seems unreasonable to me to make all the comments on the unconstitutionality of the project. The project does not undermine the autonomy of local authorities, but only gives them the opportunity to safeguard the interests of their residents. Ladies and gentlemen, from this point of view, I am addressing the opponents of this project. Since you see better solutions, you want to include your comments in the project, it is enough to make appropriate amendments. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] If they find recognition of the majority, a better law will arise. That's what democracy is all about. [[Voice from the room: We brought it in.]] [[Voice from the room: They've been transferred.]] The proposed law on amending the law on medicinal activities and certain other laws should, in my opinion, be further examined. The Free and Solidarni Circle will vote in favour of further work in this area. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u538	Thank you, Member. On the list of Members registered for the task of the question was registered... [[I'm in corrigendum mode...]] But what's the point? [[In corrigendum mode, I wanted to...]] [[He understood well what he said.]] Please, unless you prefer at the end, after questioning. [[As your marshal thinks.]] Maybe it's all together. Okay, 14 people signed up for a list of questions. [[But the Member is on behalf of the club, he is not the rapporteur.]] He's the rapporteur. [[Voice from the room: No.]] No? [[Voice from the Chamber: It is not, the Member has acted on behalf of the club.]] I am very sorry that you will not have the right to speak in the last sentence, because you are the representative of the club and not the rapporteur, as Mrs Radziszewska rightly pointed out. 14 People - Does Anyone More Want to Join the List? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Please allow me to hold a sitting, and the Member did not want to correct it, but wanted to answer it. Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, please, the club of the Polish People's Party, will ask first questions. Time - one and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u539	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm asking myself and all of us the first question. What is the fault of local governments that we are trying, especially district governments, which are the governing bodies or the founding bodies of county hospitals, to put them in such a difficult situation? Mr Ostrowski assured us how well it would all be. Mr President, you are a doctor, you have graduated from self-government and regional development. Have you really ever been to a county hospital? [[He's a 20-year-old principal.]] Very good. It's all the more surprising what you're saying here. [[That's why I have knowledge of it.]] I've been in government for 26 years. [[Józef Ratchurek-Żelazko: In the hospital...]] I'll ask you, we'll go together. ...that's why I'm asking you to consider what we want to do. And I'm going to say yes, because before the election, the state promised to set up a network of hospitals. This is a very difficult subject, it has not succeeded in any ruling option. Don't go over that topic now. Do not introduce local governments as bodies leading into such a difficult situation that you will have to connect, you will have to liquidate hospitals. Courage, if you want to do this, [[♪ The bell ♪]] conduct honestly and solidly. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u540	Thank you. Another question, Mrs Elżbieta Radziszewska, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u541	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I don't understand why we've been investigating this bill in this mode. Yesterday at 2 a.m. the first reading, the print appeared on June 3rd, in the opinion of BAS we could read that there was no time to analyze the provisions of this law, the Ministry of Health today said: there was no need, we have until September 30th. And all of a sudden, it's been 24 hours, we have a second reading. There was no possibility of a thorough analysis of the provisions of this law. We changed 33 laws with this one amendment. I ignore the fact that most of them depended only on changing the company into a medical facility. I'm skipping that, but there were more serious records. This law can quickly lead to the situation that those who are not doing well in the health market today will be wound up and patients will be deprived of hospital care. Secondly, the possibility for local governments to finance medical benefits in a vague way without any provision of control by these local authorities creates unequal conditions for patients. In addition, a patient in Warsaw co-financed by local government and a patient in Rawa Mazowiecka or in Opoczno - for God's sake, it is really necessary not to have a heart, conscience, liquidation of hospitals, unequal access. [[♪ The bell ♪]] All of these solutions raise constitutional doubts, and there were also doubts about your additions, because Mr Sosnierz tabled an amendment that eliminated the provision of services financed by local governments, but you withdrew it back. Minister, why make such radical changes at such a rate, without a chance of careful analysis, so as not to harm patients, hospitals, or local governments? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u542	Thank you very much. Another question, Mrs Elżbieta Gelert, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u543	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I'd have three questions, pretty quick, but I'd like an explanation. I mean, in the draft of this bill, actually. 70% It's just a switch from a medical company to a medical facility. And actually 70%. the material in this act only applies to this. As you will see, art. 2, Article 3, Article 5 and Article 5 10 - actually only apply to this. Question: "Did it take so much of this bill to make such a change?" That's one thing. Two. Have you done any simulations on capital companies? Because you think that the bets are going to turn into capital companies, and the doubt is very large, because at 49% I don't think anybody's gonna actually want to invest. The third question concerns the control of therapeutic entities. Is it true that this control will also increase in the companies, where, without notification of their intention to initiate control, it will be possible to enter at any time, where there is no guarantee of a place of control, where there is also no mention of how long such control will last and what kind of... how long will this check be? Please answer me. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Why are you applauding so badly?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u544	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Marek Hok, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u545	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question about why you are dividing Poles once again. It started with the sharing of children, and it started with the sharing of pensioners and seniors. Today, this bill, these records are shared by the sick. After all, local authorities, which according to this law will be able to finance medical benefits, are in different financial condition - there are local authorities that will actually afford to buy health benefits, so-called. overwork in the hospital, but there are local governments that will not be able to buy out any such benefits. These are actions which will lead to differentiation of the availability of sick Poles to benefits in different local governments, in different powiats, in different regions. This law also causes the voivodship units of the National Health Fund to be able to correct contracts with their hospitals, looking at the wealth of individual district governments, voivodships. This will lead to another division and differentiation. This law is wrong and I call for this law to be returned to the Health Committee, to be rejected and to continue to proceed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u546	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mrs Józef Rzczurek-Żelazko, club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u547	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill is good and expected by many environments. That is not only what we Members of the Law and Justice say, but also patients. Members of the opposition believe that it is harmful and lethal to local governments. This difference stems from different approaches to whom it is intended to serve. We prepare it for patients, Polish patients, so that they do not have to wait for months for medical help, we prepare it for rational use of hardware resources, staff resources at the disposal of Polish hospitals, and which are often not used as a result of absurd regulations which the current opposition has produced. Unfortunately, when we think about patients, the opposition thinks of itself, because it will no longer be priceless to pass on the hospital to its colleagues... [[Voice from the hall: What about your friends?]] [[Voice from the room: Example of something.]] ...thinks of his colleagues in the local government, so as not to hinder their lives and create a situation where they will actually have to carry out public tasks as enshrined in the Local Government Act, that they will have to make an effort and look for measures to ensure the health of their residents. From the patient's point of view, this is a very good law because it will increase the availability of health benefits. So far, PO and PSL have recognised privatisation of the sale of assets as the only way to improve the health situation. The mere transformation into a company is not a cure for improving the situation. In Małopolska, a large specialist hospital has been transformed, which many times [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr P.O. was bragging. However, he did not mention the cost incurred by the Małopolskie voivodship, and I will say that it was tens of millions of zlotys, and how much the voivodship added in the form of grants to this hospital - another tens of millions of zlotys each year. If these funds had been transferred to SPOZ, they would have functioned in the same way or better than this company. [[Did the Member refer the matter to the prosecutor's office? It's time to report.]] The contested law significantly simplifies the management of a medical establishment by removing absurd rules that hinder the day-to-day operation. It simplifies procedures for keeping records of medical activities, reporting, competitions for deputy director, even eliminating the bizarre name created by the previous coalition, e.g. a non-profit business. Minister, I have a question: Why was this bill prepared so late? [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: Oh, dear!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u548	Please, Mr Jarosław Nobletka, the Law and Justice Club, will ask another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u549	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! The existing mechanisms for supervision and control of activities and functioning, inter alia. county hospitals were often inefficient and sometimes even pathological. I myself had this experience working on the Social Council of the Independent Public Health Care Department in Myślenice. The bodies, such as the social council mentioned by me, were often referred to as persons associated with local government, often unprepared to perform such a function and thus being just a facade organ, often taking harmful decisions without consideration and discussion. It was often also so that more profitable services from hospital activities, such as dialysis, diagnostic services, were provided to private operators. This just translated into an increasing generation of individual losses... [[Voice from the room: What were you doing?]] ...which in many cases had consequences, led to the wildlife commercialisation of such a hospital, often leading to the liquidation of the unit and thus limiting the availability of these services to patients. Minister, I have a question: Will the provisions of the Act will strengthen the supervisory tools of the entity that creates the SPOZ? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u550	Thank you very much. I'm asking Mrs. Alicia Chybicka, the Civic Platform Club, to ask you another question. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u551	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I wanted to ask: Is a commercial hospital better for patients, or is a hospital better closed down? How will health care for the sick be secured when several hospitals disappear in the field and there is a white stain in health care at all, and the distance to the nearest hospital will be hundreds of kilometres? How do you plan to secure this? I meant county hospitals, but I wanted to ask you: What will you do when academic hospitals, which often have unique individuals, disappear from the surface, and there will be no place to send these sick people away, nor will you be able to treat them properly in any way? Are there measures in this situation? All university hospitals as founding bodies have medical universities which certainly do not have the means to repay any debts. And what I've already said in the committee, and what's the worst about this bill, is that the burden of introducing this law will, unfortunately, fall again. [[♪ The bell ♪]] for patients. Hospital directors with inert founding bodies will save on staff and will have an avalanche of strikes, will save on procedures, i.e. - in short - on patients. It's not a good bill. Maybe she'd be better... And the question is, why doesn't she go in some package that in such situations would give a soft landing to those sick people. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u552	Thank you very much, Member. Another question. Please, Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u553	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The discussion of the bill during today's meeting of the Health Committee only confirmed my conviction that the proposed solutions were correct. The attacks, the invectives of those who ruled for 8 years and are deaf and blind to the condition of health care, are astonishing and wondering what these attacks result from. These are good changes. Personally, I have high hopes with them, particularly in connection with the following solutions: the prohibition of privatisation, the change of proceedings in the event of net loss, the increase of liability, but also the strengthening of supervisory tools of the authority leading over subordinate SPOZs, the possibility of financing health care services by local government units or finally sharing responsibility for the activities of SPOZ between different public entities. Changes in the functioning of health services and improvements in their situation require further changes. It seems very important to carry out the evaluation of medical services as soon as possible, as there is currently no way to avoid loss in certain areas, the establishment of a network of public hospitals and of course an increase in overall financing of healthcare. What does the Ministry of Health plan to do in this regard? And as for the threat of falling 40% actors and scaring people by the opposition [[♪ The bell ♪]] - we'll live, see who's right. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u554	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u555	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I can only ask one question: are you crazy? This really is the only question you can ask. Mr Latos. If you're not interested in this bill and you're on the phone all the time talking club speeches, go get some sleep, it's late. It's just total arrogance. That's what you did at the committee meeting when you didn't even let anyone in the government speak. If that's what you're gonna do with your offer of cooperation, finding the right solutions, congratulations. You have no idea... And the Member does not even know the difference between the Supervisory Board and the Social Council. You're messing with all the clues. The social council is a free advice... [[Voice from the room: 'Cause you're not listening.]] ...and the claim that people connected with local government are going to the social council is simply sick. You're... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Yeah, well, you said people cast social council with their friends, their friends. Those are your words. [[Yes.]] I don't think you even know what social services are. Ladies and gentlemen, you have no idea. Tell me: How can money be found to pay overwork if the government doesn't have any money? Answer me that question. Where's the money gonna go to give people real medical care when the government doesn't have a dollar? Answer me that simple question. Thank you very much. [[Voice from the O.R.: The hospital will shut down.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u556	Thank you very much. However, Mr President, this first phrase was completely unnecessary. I didn't, Mr... [[With a formal application...]] I'm listening. [[With a formal application.]] I'm listening to you, sir. What's the formal conclusion? [[May I?]] I'm listening to you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u557	Mrs. Marshal! I'm applying for a formal motion, requesting a convocation, I don't know, senior convention. [[Joy in the Chamber]] And an instruction from the gentleman who just spoke. Unfortunately, your marshal didn't respond. Your marshal, not the first... [[But what do you mean?]] Ma'am, I mean, there are certain good customs that should be observed in this House. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[My friend's right about you going crazy.]] You insulted me. You insulted me, and you didn't mean it. I didn't have a committee meeting today, you probably weren't at that committee meeting, and that's the behavior that just derogates the dignity of this House. [[Voice from the room: Formal conclusion...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u558	Mr Sejm, first of all, the Senior Convention calls the Marshal of the Sejm, second of all, I have drawn your attention to the first phrase, and thirdly, you will be able to address yourself at the end, because you are the rapporteur's Member. Sit down now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u559	It's just that I'm gonna be referring to substantive matters...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u560	Please, Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u561	...not to preserve individual Members.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u562	I have informed you that the Convention will not be at your request. And now for another question - Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u563	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, there are so many topics that it's hard to relate to everyone here, but maybe from the beginning. [[Is that really funny?]] Dear Members of the PiS, what other boundaries do you want to cross? The Member who spoke on behalf of the PiS Club is talking about some deliberate debt to the hospital. Dear Member, at this point you are insulting all local government officials, seniors, marshals, councillors of powiats, councillors of voivodeship sejmists, because they are the authorities running these hospitals. It is indeed wicked to accuse them of acting intentionally against their own organizational units. [[Applause]] You say that the possibility of purchasing benefits is not transferred to local government units. Well, there is, sir, because the transfer of financing for medical services... How else do we call the need for local governments to cover their net losses? After all, the net loss is largely due to the fact that these hospitals are open to the patient, so they generate over-limit benefits for which the NFZ does not pay. So by forcing the counties to cover this kind of loss, you're condemning them. [[♪ The bell ♪]] hospitals for liquidation, because county authorities have strictly limited income, mostly consisting of subsidies and grants, and will not be able to generate such funds to cover losses. Dear Member, more than 1/3 of the county hospitals are in this state, and not because of mismanagement, but because of the current system of financing for medical services that you do not change. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u564	Thank you very much. Another question - Mr Krzysztof Ostrowski, club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u565	Dear Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, At first, such a reflection of a general nature. Listening to the various proceedings, not only in today's sitting, and to these black scripts, I get the impression that if one tenth or one twentieth of what you prophesy, you say, from this black vision, it's not just us, or the Law and Justice, in four years they won't choose us, but they'll take us out on the wheelbarrows. But I'm pretty sure it's gonna be different. [[Voice from the room: No problem.]] And now very briefly to Mr Miller. Mr Miller is concerned that the law on six-year-olds to schools, which we have now voted on, is causing problems for local governments. I would like to say, Mr President, that if you had not passed this bill on six-year-olds against the will of most parents, the local government would now have no such problems. You should have thought back then. Speaking of which, scandalous procedure - Mr Ruciński and Mr Kosiniak-Kamish... [[Game in the O.R.]] Let me tell you. [[Voice from the room: Question. The questions are.]] I'll ask. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] In the end, just like everyone else. The scandalous pace of proceding - after all, this law has been proceded since the beginning of the year, passed all modes and forms of legislation. She only accelerated in the Seym. [[Where? Yesterday was the first reading.]] She only accelerated in the Seym. As for the fall of hospitals, I'll tell you briefly that I've been through all levels of government, I've been on the board of county... [[Voice from the room: I passed.]] I'm through. I'm sorry. I went through all my self-government degrees, I was on the county board, I was a district councilman, a senior. I don't see the fall of hospitals. I think we'll see each other in a few years and we'll find out that after all these hospitals [[♪ The bell ♪]] They're doing great. And a question for the Minister. It is well known that the financial situation of hospitals is not the best, especially in county hospitals. Does the government have any other planned support instruments, financial assistance to county hospitals? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u566	Thank you very much. I ask you a question from Mr Jerzy Kozłowski, Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u567	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister. As far as I know, the bill was widely consulted in the medical, medical, nursing, self-government, and from what I know - or maybe I'm wrong - has not received any positive recommendation. Therefore, I have a question: If he has received one, the only positive recommendation, can you reveal from whom? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[From the chairman. Great.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u568	Thank you. Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Kukiz.15, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u569	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The draft law provides that, in the event of a negative financial result in a separate public health institution, it is to cover the net loss in its own scope, i.e. by reducing the bet fund and, if this fund is not sufficient to cover all losses, the entity creating the bet will be obliged to cover the remainder, but not more than the amount resulting from the net loss and depreciation costs. If SPOZ is unable to cover the net loss on its own, it will be possible to close it. In such a situation there are among others. hospital in Proszowice, very important for the region as well as many other hospitals in Poland. This raises doubts and raises the question of what is more important - the financial results or the health and safety of our citizens. And if we rule by saying, "We'll live, we'll see, I'm scared." [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u570	Mr Rajmund Miller, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u571	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will turn to the Member first. Member, this is the Sejm. I therefore oblige you to present a list of our fellows who committed the crime by taking over hospitals. And please report this to the D.A.'s office. Otherwise, we'll report you to the ethics committee. I don't have that kind of guy. You insulted me, and so have many of my opposition colleagues. I have a hypothetical question - because he provides, he says how great it will be - to the Minister. Let's assume a hypothetical situation. Well, the county council, which is the founding body for the county hospital, has no money to repay the net debt within 9 months, and in addition 50 million is the hospital's debt for the previous years. From my knowledge, at the time of liquidation, the local government will be burdened with one and the other debt that it will have to repay. What if it's a medical university? There are clinical hospitals that are indebted to PLN 200 million. So the medical university is unable to repay this annual net debt within 9 months, it cancels the clinic, the patients stay on the street, there's nowhere to treat -- and I don't want that to happen to children with cancer or other patients -- and there's 200 million debt. I have a question for the government: What will be the government's action in this situation, what will you do and what will you do if such bankruptcy, liquidation is any there? How will the government behave? [[♪ The bell ♪]] As I recall, the Prime Minister was saying that no hospital would fall, that hospitals should be, that health care in this country would be financed by the state budget, not by government budgets. Answer me. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: We can do this.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u572	Thank you so much for asking. And last question, Mrs Andżelik Możjanowska, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u573	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen of the Law and Justice! When I hear such self-governments and such opinions, I wonder if it's a good thing that you're out of these self-governments, because you're working on these laws in parliament to a great harm. [[Applause]] It's terrifying. This is appalling, because no responsible self-government officer is taking such hurtful solutions for his self-government. Ladies and gentlemen, you will return to your county cities, to the communes. What are you gonna tell these people? What are you gonna say to these self-governments? What do you say to the hospital director's office? Covering net losses, co-financing benefits is a burden on local governments. It's not just giving opportunities, it's gonna be a social compulsion, and it's gonna be imposed not only by county authorities, but perhaps, in partnership, even by municipal authorities. I invite you to the district of Kępiński. In the district of Kępin there is no debt, because it is very well managed, but there is a huge responsibility of all local authorities, there was also, and there is, an investment procedure. Today we need to build a landing site, today there are proposals and plans for the development of the operating block. The state, on the other hand, is imposing further burdens on local governments. So, do you want to liquidate hospitals or do you want to liquidate local governments? Are you really going to shut down hospitals and local governments? What a good example of a good change we had, shows [[♪ The bell ♪]] liquidation of the hospital in Syców. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u574	Thank you. With this question, we have exhausted the list of Members who have been assigned to the question. Please address the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Mr Piotr Warczyński. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u575	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Members, I see that you see this law through the prism of several debatable solutions. These include the possibility for local government units to buy benefits, the prohibition on dividend payments, the payment of a negative financial result or the prohibition on the disposal of shares or shares of more than 49% in entities that are public property. At the same time, you do not see or ignore many regulations that this law contains and which have been positively assessed by practically everyone who evaluates this regulation, i.e. by local authorities, and by doctors, and by healthcare professionals. And in order for this not to run away, I would like to say a few words about these regulations, while answering a few questions that have been asked by different countries. Such regulation is undoubtedly a strengthening of the supervisory tools of the hospital's establishment, its independent public health care facility. And I would like to point out here that we are proposing to create, in fact, an obligation of the head of the SPOZ to report on the economic and financial situation of the medicinal entity, which will include both the forecast, and this is the long-term forecast of the entity's development, as well as the assessment of the last financial year. I know that many actors, especially at the marshal level, carry out such analyses, some of them - very advanced analyses and we have all been in contact with them, but when we look at our entities across the country and at the bodies that form throughout the country, most of them unfortunately do not carry out such analyses. Given that we propose that these analyses be carried out on the basis of uniform economic and financial indicators to be shown - the draft regulation is of course annexed to the Act, so that we can already see what these indicators are proposed - they will be developed by the Minister of Health together with the Minister of Finance and in a uniform manner across the country can be looked at and compared to all the medicinal entities, of course those which are comparable, and check how they work together. At the same time, the creator will obtain a reliable control and supervision tool and will no longer be able to say that he does not know what is happening in his own hospital or clinic. [[Minister, we don't deny it. Please refer to the charges.]] Of course, yes, only I have referred to the charges in this Chamber and in the Committee on Health several times, but we have never talked about these aspects. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Exactly. There are dozens of these proposals in the bill, and there are several ones that are being discussed, but of course, if you wish, I will also refer to them and refer to them in the following order. One of the major allegations is to cover a negative financial result. Covering this negative financial result is intended to lead to the fall of those medicinal products which generate this negative financial result. I would like to remind you, because I think you all remember that these regulations on covering the negative financial result have been in force since 1997 since the formation of the entity. And from those years until today, with a slight change in 2011, these records are in the same form. All these years... [[It could be converted into a company.]] ...had fallen hospitals and medicinal agents, even though they had the same responsibilities? The only change that took place in the meantime, namely in 2011, was that the possibility had been added and, in fact, the need to convert in case of non-covering the negative financial result of the hospital into a capital company. At the moment, the only change regarding this record is... [[Not necessarily capital.]] In the capital company, i.e. the company z o.o. Or a joint stock company. The only change at the moment is that we are returning to this state before 2011 and there is no longer any need to turn into a capital company. [[Liquidation.]] [[Voice from the room: You can't.]] It cannot be converted into a capital company. So it's practically important... [[But what about the debt?]] ...but from a financial point of view, it's a bit of a change, because it's all been in place since 1997. Another debatable change is the prohibition on paying dividends. And here you have already pointed out... [[Nobody's talking about a dividend.]] ...that this is not a unique approach to the functioning of medicinal entities, because this is the principle of health protection in most countries of the old European Union. Most, the vast majority, and in some countries all medicinal entities operate on a non-profit basis, which allocates all their profits to internal development, to quality growth and to growth... [[We understand that. We know what it is.]] ...remuneration. Possibility to purchase health benefits by local government units. We need to get back to history a little bit here, too. I would remind you that the possibility of financing its hospitals has also been regulated practically since the start of the health reform, since 1989 at 100% I do not remember whether such possibilities had previously been introduced, either, as yet, the functioning of the budgetary system. Namely, local authorities can finance repairs, finance equipment purchases, finance staff training and finance health benefits in health prevention programmes at all times. At the moment, this possibility is also supplemented by the purchase of benefits. Because it is an opportunity, so of course it will carry out all these tasks of this creation entity, which will have the money. [[Who's gonna have the money. And that's the inequality.]] It's obvious, just like now, exactly the same thing is happening. Some local authorities are really carrying out very rich and complex organisational health prevention programmes, which include a wide range of health benefits. So, to a large extent, these health benefits are realized and bought. And another debatable issue is the ban on the sale of shares or shares in public companies above 49%. You ask if local authorities will find help, e.g. private investors, because these private investors will not be interested. Are those private investors who will want to acquire more than 49% they will be interested in providing assistance to local authorities, whether they will be interested in buying this medicinal product. If they acquire more than 49% Shares or shares will become owners of this entity, even though it was public property, self-government, not really the property of the local government, not the property of the local government, but the property of the residents, the local government. So it seems that this change also has a rational justification. [[But will they or won't they? What do you think?]] Madam President, it is that some have, some do not. Should we therefore prohibit those who have this money and say, "You cannot help your community?" If you're helping in other areas... [[That's a naive look, Minister.]] Maybe. There was also a question about whether we were planning any other financial assistance tools. Yes, these tools are already being implemented. You have probably heard of the fact that both the previous government and this government have helped hospitals through the Industrial Development Agency, which has sometimes given quite high loans to certain entities, imposing a restructuring programme and requiring further restructuring. [[For once, she helped, not stole.]] Both the Government and the Government of Law and Justice, which helped the Children's Health Center in January, for example. [[We did the right thing.]] This is undoubtedly one of the tools for helping hospitals. At the moment, we are working to create a specialized agency that will manage hospital aid. This is very difficult because it is known that such an agency without financial resources will not be able to do much. But here we have a number of ways to get these resources. I funds from the European Union, and funds from e.g. from the European Investment Bank or part of the budget, but also e.g. from contributions - this depends on the concept that will ultimately be developed - all medical entities that could participate in this project. These are just beginnings. It is known that this takes time and requires first and foremost finding these money streams. But let's remember that this agency, which we call the hospital development agency, is going to offer its help to hospitals that are having difficulty getting funding, not for example. large marshal hospitals, because we know that there is much more money in the voivodships than in the powiats, just smaller county hospitals. And here, for example, in the bill, in this law, we do some things that will be helpful in obtaining, for example, bank loans by PSOZ. Namely, we allow to transfer in other forms than only free lending which is currently being carried out, in all legal forms the equipment of the SPOZ in real estate. At the moment, SPOZ is theoretically managing these properties, but they are not owned by SPOZ. That's what we're changing. That is why at first I wanted to show you at least a dozen changes that do not raise as much doubt as those I finally had to tell you about. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u576	Thank you very much, Minister. And now Mr Tomasz Latos, rapporteur of the committee, has the opportunity to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u577	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to thank the Minister very much for his very detailed explanations. At the committee meeting, you were also very substantive and answered the questions in detail. You have done a great deal to me of my duty and the need to address many of the issues that have been raised here. I have always tried, whenever I acted as the rapporteur of the committee, not to play the role of defender of such or other reasons as this happens sometimes, but this one, very hot today and, I will not comment on what further discussion, has caused me to deviate from this custom. Ladies and gentlemen, I will stress once again, it may happen that in Poland local governments will transfer 0 PLN for treatment and not for prevention programmes. This can theoretically happen because there is no obligation here to make these benefits happen with local money. It can be as it is done at the moment, and there is really no coercion written in this bill. Next, the second thing you also spoke of was Armageddon. We return to those records that used to be, and for this reason there was no catastrophe in 2010, in 2009, when you ruled or even before, before 2011, when the Act on Medical Activity came into force. So you can't read the fall of hospitals, and you can say even the percentages, and you can ask, on what basis, and how it's calculated. Nor do you say that some poor people will have to travel several hundred kilometers to the nearest hospital, because that would mean that all Polish patients who live in the centre of Poland would have to treat abroad, because we have a country like this and not another size. In short, there was a lot of populism and demagogy in all of this. I value what you said here or said at the committee meeting, some discussion, not only political, because, let's agree, there was mostly a lot of politics here, but also let's look at it as an intellectual challenge, on the basis of different views on the bill because of who's in opposition and who's in coalition. However, in this political discourse, let us try to keep some facts. We can, of course, be different, and we certainly are different. I don't want to bring up examples of privatisations or privatisation plans and responsibilities for that, because it's... [[Please summon them.]] Madame, I would very much ask you not to disturb me. You have such a bad habit of commenting all the time... [[But please recall these privatisation plans.]] ...expressions, whoever's speaking here. This is not really an elegant form, Madam Member. [[It's easy to accuse.]] Therefore, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm not accusing you, and let's leave it for another discussion, and I'm happy to join you in this debate. [[Now say it out loud.]] On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, it is certainly not elegant and not modern, sticking to a certain name, speaking untrue, because all the local governmentmen who wanted to speak today have spoken. It's a kind of party at all. Let me say this, I think since I've been here, there have been positive and negative patterns, as well as in life, as in private life. And it is worth it, sir, but it is worth drawing on these positive patterns, which are perhaps less spectacular... [[Your Marshal...]] ...and they get to the media a lot less and break through in one form or another. [[What kind of lecture is that?]] I took the liberty of commenting because your marshal had given me such a right earlier, saying that I would be able to relate to what happened here at the end. [[Nobody gives you that right.]] Thank you all for the discussion. I regret that there are people who, as I see them, can't hold back so that they don't have to discuss things with the speaker all the time. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Because you're not a superspeaker.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u578	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Health Committee in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The next item will be the draft act on the National Media Council, but before we begin, I am announcing a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 23 min. 38 hrs. 23 min 40]] Ladies and gentlemen, the session is resumed. We proceed with the examination of item 35 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on the National Media Council and amending certain laws (Print No 592). I would like to ask Mrs Elżbieta Kruk to provide the reasons for the bill. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u579	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The need to adopt the proposed Act on the National Media Council is due to the temporary nature of the Act of 30 December 2015 amending the Act on Radiophony and Television. The legislator made a clear statement to this effect in his article. 4 of that law, indicating 30 June 2016 as the last day of its validity. The need for an urgent new regulation in the field of a standardized December Episcopal Act is therefore the result of a decision by the legislator himself. In the above law, whose ratio legis is laid down in the justification for its project, Parliamentary printing No 158, the legislator indirectly indicated the directions for future reform of public media. First of all, at the root of the deprivation of the National Radio and Television Council's prerogatives as regards the appointment of a part of the composition of supervisory boards and the appointment of members of the boards of public broadcasting companies, there was a negative assessment of the merger in a single authority of the power regulator of the electronic media market, which should be impartial to all participants in that market, with the function of the authority exercising authority in the field of ownership supervision towards entities representing State ownership. Only this first function - the controlling regulator of the media market - is based on the constitutional status of the National Radio and Television Council. According to the Constitution, the National Council: upholds the freedom of expression, the right to information and the public interest in radio and television, as indicated in paragraph 1. Article 1 213. These tasks apply equally to public and private media. The Constitution does not provide for any specific powers of the National Council vis-à-vis public media, but provides for the issuing by the National Council of normative acts and individual acts addressed to unsubordinated entities. The legislator therefore assigns to the National Council the role of a government-independent regulatory authority which exercises public authority over non-subordinated broadcasters. Secondly, by introducing a simplified procedure for the appointment and dismissal of supervisory boards and boards of companies by the Minister responsible for State Treasury matters, reducing the number of members of supervisory boards to three and without establishing the term of office of the bodies of the company appointed in this simplified procedure, the legislator assumed that legal status and the manner in which the authorities of the regulated organisational units were created would change from 1 July 2016. Since the essential elements of the reform under preparation may require a notification procedure in accordance with European Union law and this procedure will certainly not be completed before 1 July 2016, there is an urgent need to adopt the proposed law because, for the reasons indicated above, it is not possible to adopt the whole package introducing national media reform already now, the package contained in the draft laws on national media, Parliamentary printing No 442, and audiovisual contribution, printing No 443, and introductory provisions, printing No 444. Until its adoption Whereas it is necessary to anticipate, with effect from 1 July 2016, the following elements of national media reform: Firstly, the establishment of the National Media Council as a cadence, fully independent of the executive authority and politically pluralist body, which will carry out legal activities concerning the structure and composition of public bodies of radio and television broadcasting, with a view to their thorough fulfilment of their statutory tasks and to protecting their editorial independence and independence from the executive authority in terms of content and form of transmissions. Secondly, granting the National Media Council powers to carry out certain activities which the December Episcopal Act temporarily granted to the Minister of the Treasury, while maintaining a formal, non-influenced role of the Minister as a representative of the State Treasury in general meetings of 20 companies covered by the proposed regulation, until their statutory transformation into non-corporate state legal persons and the creation of the National Media Fund. The six-year term of office of each of the five members of the Board and the ban on joining the Council with employment in the field of executive authority provide an institutional guarantee that public media will be completely independent of the executive authority in terms of both personnel and programme. The composition of the National Media Council, as sui generis of the ownership body, guarantees for the first time in the history of Polish public media the participation of representatives of the parliamentary opposition in the direct exercise of this supervision, including in making important personal decisions. Three members of the Council will be appointed by a majority of the Sejm, and two - the President of the Republic will only be appointed from among the pairs of candidates designated by the opposition sejm clubs if these clubs wish to exercise the right to present the head of state to their candidates. The importance of this innovation cannot be overestimated from the point of view of democratic control of public media and transparency of personal decisions. In the logic of public media reform, the separation of the functions of the sovereign and impartial regulator of the media market from the functions of media ownership, initiated by the December law and confirmed by the proposed regulation, justifies the reduction of the statutory number of members of the National Radio and Television Council, starting from its new term of office, from five to three, including the resignation of Vice-President of the National Council. Constitution in Article. 214 does not specify the number of members of the national council, leaving this to ordinary legislation. In the doctrine of constitutional law, the number 3 is rightly considered to be the smallest sufficient number of members of the national council due to the principle of tres faciunt college and the constitutional requirement for this body to be composed of at least one member by the Sejm, the Senate and the President of the Republic of Poland. The proposed law does not change the public media funding system. A proper change will take place in the framework of the reform under preparation. The creation of a new system for financing national media will be the next step. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u580	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. I would ask Mrs Barbara Bubula, the Law and Justice Club, to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u581	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, of course, supports the parliamentary bill on the National Media Council, as this project is a necessary step in the reform of public media in our country. This reform is intended to lead to good governance and good funding. The proposals submitted by the group of members of our club before about a month ago by the large media law and the Act on audiovisual contribution and the Introductory Act, according to prints Nos 442, 443 and 444, as shown, inter alia, by the opinion of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, will require notification to the European Commission before entry into force. In this situation it is impossible for them to enter into force from 1 July 2016 and 1 January 2017, as we know from the experience of other countries, the notification process often covers months and even years. We hope that in this case it will be months rather than years, but the danger of the entry into force of the rules on those originally set dates is very high. In this state of affairs, it has become necessary to exclude from the major reform those provisions which raise no doubt about the need to notify them to the authorities of the European Union. The draft law abolishes the temporary implementation of the December Act with its entry into force in January this year. the independence of the authorities of Polish Television, Polish Radio and regional companies to the government, or actually the minister of the treasure. The National Media Council appointed by the Sejm and the President appears, and on this five-member board the President will appoint two representatives of opposition clubs, which will be the first ever guaranteed invitation of the opposition in its statutory form to co-decision on public media. The adoption of the submitted project is necessary and necessary. It is a necessary step in entrusting the national media with an important mission, which is described in the draft Print Act No. 442. I would like to remind you that, according to this project, not only are the elements to be added to the definition of public media missions, which are intended to be their role in acquiring and disseminating reliable information from the country and abroad, but also the cultivation of national traditions, patriotic values and humanities, contributing to meeting the spiritual needs of listeners and viewers, stimulating and satisfying their comprehensive interests, spreading the achievements of Polish and world science and artistic creativity, as well as popularising various forms of civic activity, facilitating access to objective information and creating conditions for pluralistic debate on public matters. The Law and Justice Club is also determined to lead for the first time after 1989 to adequate high public funding of national media... [[It's not in this bill.]] ...so that the mission described in the Act is properly financed without commercial pressure and the need to compete for viewers with private media through low-quality television production. The main issue of the need to adopt this law is the determined and unambiguous political will on the part of the Law and Justice Club to finally regulate, after many years of expectations, the functioning of public, national media such as Television Poland, such as Polish Radio, such as national public radio companies in individual voivodships, as well as the Polish Press Agency, in a rational manner and in accordance with European standards. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u582	Thank you. Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasinska, please speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u583	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! You're the Minister of Culture, so I understand you know pretty well that at about an hour. 23.55 All the theaters are empty, the stage ramp lights are out, and the actors even if they sit in the buffet, they're already out of character. And here, in the Seym, for the second time in less than six months, actually within six months, at about midnight, we begin the performance. I'm sorry to say, but this debate -- really sorry to say -- is actually some kind of performance. If I were wondering about the species, I would say that it is some kind of tragedy, because - what the applicants had to admit here - we just knew that there would be some huge reform of public media. Three projects were presented, everything was meant to be. And national media, and this mission a little bit different, and funding. Happiness, just full happiness. Then the first reading took place, a subcommittee was set up. The subcommittee worked hard for two days, was appointed the third day of the meeting, and suddenly half an hour before that came the text that the meeting was cancelled. Neither did anybody say "I'm sorry you had to come," nor did anyone explain why. The devil's tail was covered in silence at all. Excuse me, High Seym. And it turns out here's a new bill in return. What about that one? And that's what's in there somewhere. And why did that happen? Because at last, regardless of the fact that everyone's been saying this for six months, the applicant, including the Minister, realized that they had given it to the Sejm before. It's already started on this subcommittee. It turned out that this third law introducing this legislation was a wick, so it had to be given up, divided into two. Then it turned out that it was not known who or who was to charge this audiovisual fee, and when it came to this National Media Council and the limitations on the competence of the national council, it was also wrong. And you had to come out of it somehow, I don't know what, according to the applicants probably face-to-face, but besides, you could make a commitment that this really curiosity system in the European world, that the treasure minister appoints the public media authorities, will end on 30 June. You should've looked for some other solution. And this other solution is this Council of National Media, although I would like to say that we do not have national media, because they remain in the Act on Radio and Television public media. So I don't know what advice is, but let's say this. Although it was agreed at the subcommittee meeting that the connection between PAP and TV and radio was pointless, in this project I read that we were to merge again. Okay, fine. And what's our advice? We have some advice on which... So far, I do not know what is the distinction between this board and the supervisory boards that this board of notabene is calling. That's not exactly what I'm saying. As I understand it, nothing has changed and active politicians can still be members of this council. So I understand that this is a beautiful bill for fellow Members. And grace, Mr. President, is to appoint representatives of two opposition clubs. I just want to say that the decisions of the National Media Council are made by 3:2 votes. Thank you so much for being so kind and for being so kind. This bill is unacceptable for these reasons, but not just those. This is not how you work in the Polish Parliament. It's just not how you work. There must be time, there must be opinions, procedures must be followed. And even so, although also for these substantive reasons, the Parliamentary Club [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Civic Platform, which I have the honour to represent, requests that this project be rejected at first reading. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u584	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Kukiz Poselski Club15, Mr Piotr Liroy-March. You're welcome. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u585	Mrs. Marshal! Tall - almost empty - Sejm! It is a pity that such important topics are discussed again under the cover of the night when most Poles sleep because they get up to work in the morning. Why was there a public hearing with such great interest? Madam President, why was the work of the subcommittee so promising that we worked so hard? There will still be an opportunity to address this project in detail, but I must say that good law is not written on the knee and does not adopt at night. That's all I have to say. Five minutes is way too much. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u586	In that case, the Modern Club, Mr Grzegorz Furgo. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u587	Dear Marshal! Minister! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Empty Seym! The debate on such an important bill as usual is being discussed, ladies and gentlemen, at night, by an empty room. [[But we're here, sir.]] I am very pleased to see you, Member. What happened after so many months of work and confusion, the Minister announces that it is necessary to pass a bridge law? As a result, there will be no new audiovisual fee. After all, you knew for a long time that the law would require notification of the European Union. You say, Minister, that this is a project that eliminates the government's influence on public media. Nothing more wrong, I suspect, and I'm pretty sure nothing's gonna change. Today's public television is such a very political hybrid performed often by people without moral spine, and also without the necessary professionalism. So dramatically low level, and thus the decrease in ratings was also not I don't think so. The president of the Polish Television was never booed at the ordinary Polish Song Festival in Opole. This shows the opinion of Poles about today's television. After all, from the nominees of national media there will be no signal for executives that it is worth approaching BBC standards. Because today we're really closer to Russia Today. Information programmes are unilateral and manipulated. We were to have, ladies and gentlemen, a new system of public media, and we have another version of Poland's ruin. The next bill is a prosthetic, but you have to admit that this time the PiS has outdone itself. We haven't dealt with prosthetic prosthesis so far. Now, please, we have a prosthetic staff bill that was supposed to be just a prosthetic in itself. It's amazing. There is only one reason why this law stands in the Sejm today: your weakness in the development of a comprehensive package of media laws. You reported them with a big pump. We did our first reading, and what? In the subcommittee, the bill turned out to be a screw-up. And today, according to tradition in the middle of the night, we decide something that will enable the public media to function after July 1. Ladies and gentlemen, July 1st is in three weeks. I think you need calendar gifts so you don't get surprised by the dates of your own legislation. But what shocks me the most personally is the contents of this prosthesis. Instead of admitting mistakes and restoring constitutional order in which the National Council of Radiophony and Television is a body that controls the order of public media, you propose in this legislative hull to make another jump to the stools. This law therefore has one purpose: to introduce the National Media Council and to cast it with its own people. The bill provides for two seats for the opposition. But in order not to be so pink, we are to present two nominations, and President Duda will choose one of them. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a joke. The President has already chosen the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. And it's not good for Poland. To sum up, Minister Czabański had the courage to submit this bad bill and stop its proceedings. That's actually a lot of courage. I can't say that about your colleagues who produce bad laws and get into trouble for which the entire nation will pay. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Joachim Brudziński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u588	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mrs Andzelika Możdjanówska, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u589	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister, with your hand on your heart, a little shame. It is impossible for you not to know that such far-reaching changes in legislation require notification of the European Union. You realized it was two and a half years, at least two and a half years. It's another media bill that's being processed at night. We had a little media bill, a staff bill, a big, big media bill to show us how to manage national media. Unfortunately, neither mission nor integrity nor objectivity. We've got another staff setup. At the first moment, when I started reading the content of this next legal bubble, I was wondering if you were following the Radio Committee Act, but in that law, at least it was formally a collegial body, and what is proposed here is not even a commune, but it is beginning to resemble Stalinism. But let me refer to a few substantive provisions in this bill. The Member has called it innovation. Art. 2 (2) 3 point 2. You've made up a great idea. You pretend that this opposition will be able to present its candidates to the President, and in this article, write down that the PiS will select three candidates, and the other two candidates will select the President from among the two candidates proposed - for today - by Kukiz and two candidates proposed by the Civic Platform. I think you've lost your way in these solutions. After all, if you want the opposition to indicate anyone, it can be written simply: two candidates only point to opposition parties, voting by a simple majority, and that's it. The next points are even more interesting. Art. 2 (2) 5. What's the point of a six-year term for this council? You change and cancel everyone, you win the election. Ladies and gentlemen, stop this hypocrisy. Let the term of office continue to change power. You'll be re-elected, you'll be re-arranged. But remember, if the nation rejects you, it will reject your counsel as well. Art. Three, about independence. Don't be ridiculous, ladies and gentlemen, because even the children won't believe it anymore. They said this very clearly on Children's Day with the mouth of Karolina Wójcicka, when the Children's and Youth Sejm was held. Art. 7. I understand the board members want to pay over 4,3,000. zł, and the President - almost 6.5 thousand. zł. In front of the cameras, you pretend you're doing everything socially, and when the cameras go out, it turns out that's not true. I understand that those who, apart from these payments, will still be guaranteed reimbursements and expenses, will actually work for 40 hours a week, or in a moment they will find that they have more jobs in the next places. Art. 14. And again, you're protecting yourselves so that no one can ever cancel your chosen counsel. Paranoia. Look, ladies and gentlemen, finally, the winner takes everything and you've set a precedent that you can't stop. Every new winner will first do what you do: change all the laws and remove all your people. That's what you've done and you'll be ashamed of it. You've brought politics to set up stools and you'll be remembered by history. As with any law, I could go on point by point to show that it is unconstitutional, but after all, the constitution is for nothing. The fact that it's legal, it's nothing new in the case of these laws. Instead of preparing good solutions, it is still just dividing stools and assigning further salaries. I think we need to get used to it for the next three years. Well, even this nighttime isn't random. It seems that if you pretend to be in front of Poles that you work so hard, they will have pity on you. Nothing like that. Poles expect results from you, not fake, fake, night work. For us it is not a problem, we are used to working all day, but I wonder what causes that we cannot in the morning, in normal mode, on these laws, on good laws to proceed. Maybe because they're just not good. Today I appeal to you: correct, ladies and gentlemen, although the biggest mistakes. That is why I will table an amendment at second reading so that opposition candidates report to opposition parties, voting for candidates by a simple majority, because unfortunately we are aware of tomorrow's vote. Dear Parliamentaries! For the Parliamentary Club [[♪ The bell ♪]] I ask the Polish People's Party to reject the law at first reading, because often and good works of hell prepared. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u590	Thank you, Member. I would like to point out that the High House started work today at 3 p.m. 9 a.m., yesterday. [[Today.]] We have been working since morning, Madame. Perhaps you missed it. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan will speak. You're welcome, my fellow Member. [[Voice from the room: But it's tomorrow.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u591	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The draft appointment of the National Media Council was presented, which, as the applicant writes, is to carry out legal activities concerning the structure and personal composition of the bodies of 20 companies of the Treasury - public radio and television units and the Polish Press Agency, with a view to their thorough fulfilment of their statutory tasks, as well as protecting their editorial independence and independence from executive authorities in terms of content and forms of transmission. The Council is to count five members, three of whom are to be appointed by the Sejm and two are to be appointed by the President. Their term of office is to last six years. The candidates, two for each seat, for members of the council appointed by the President, are represented by parliamentary opposition clubs. It's a very important innovation. The six-year term of office of each of the five members of the board, the principle of their independence and the prohibition of joining the board with employment in the sphere of executive power are a guarantee that the Polish public media will be completely independent of the executive authority for the first time in their history, both in terms of personnel and programming. The proposed amendment to the Act on Radio and Television states that the National Media Council is to appoint members of the Management Boards and Supervisory Boards of the Polish Television and Polish Radio, including presidents, which in the current regulations is the responsibility of the Minister of Treasury. The planned changes also include the removal of records which refer to the possibility of privatization of the Polish Press Agency. High Izbo! The proposed establishment of the Council of Public Media is a revolutionary change in the management of public media, which gives an opportunity to increase democratic control of public media in our country. Therefore, next to Free and Solidarni, he will vote in favour of the proposal. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: It's a surprise.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u592	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Robert Winnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u593	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The presented mini-media reform project is really a continuum, it is a continuum of what we were working on six months ago, and, as a rule, it introduces one good change in substance, i.e. a change in the fact that the media regulator is separated from the direct public media manager. And that's good, that should be commended in this project. As a matter of principle and essence of the functioning of public media in Poland, there is no revolution. Public media, as in the previous terms of office of the Sejm, are, as they were, media that control the parliamentary majority. It was actually because, if not whole, it was almost the entire quarter of a century past. The most important question that we must ask ourselves, especially in the event of the coming, I understand, comprehensive media law, is: What role should public media play in Poland, what role should national media play? After 1989 in the Polish media space we had several types of main groups, one can say, dominant in the media market. Firstly, they were liberal media, media created at the turn of the 1980s and 1990s, for example in the way in which the Gazeta Wyborcza was founded, based on a certain unfair takeover of certain signs, on some dishonest manipulation, and they dominated a significant part of the market. It was the first important group. The second media group after 1989 in Poland, apart from liberal media, is foreign media or media in the hands of foreign publishers. These Polish national interests, of course, will not be realized, unless by accident. The third group of media after 1989, and the only one that has so far built the identity of a society coming out of communism, were Catholic media, as being able to distinguish a large player on the media market. I'm not talking about the Internet here, because the Internet is a whole different area. I'm talking about traditional electronic media and the press market. So we have so far dealt with these three large segments, in which only Catholic media played the role of media fighting for national identity, of the basic values on which our national community is built. I am talking about this here today, because this new media law and the tasks that we will set up as a parliament before public media, is really an attempt to build another pillar of Polishness and another pillar that will ground the nation's identity in the 21st century, which will underpin Poland's sovereignty in the 21st century. Public media cannot only be a government competition for liberal media, for those media whose principle of action is profit, cosmopolitanism, consumption. National media have a special role to play, as we talked about yesterday in the Communication Commission with Poles abroad during the discussion on TVP Polonia, because on the one hand they must promote these values, they must fight certain trends, and on the other hand they must be attractive. It is therefore understandable that they need a lot of money. This is obviously understandable in this context. That's something to talk about. And it's not just about fighting, it's about who put the stool in. We need to talk about far-reaching issues, because we in Poland, I hope, have started an experiment on a European scale - in Poland, Hungary and, I hope, in other countries of Central and Eastern Europe - building a different kind of society, a different kind of democracy than in left-liberal Western societies. Our democracy is to be national, our democracy is to be Christian. Media is needed for this, because in Poland, such a nature of public life has been defended by institutions such as the family or the Church, and it is necessary for the media and the school to start defending it - those institutions that shape people in the fullest way. Ladies and gentlemen, at a time when there is also consolidation in the fight against the Polish national identity and sovereignty, when George Soros buys Agory's shares, when the international trade religion unites to fight against the Polish identity and national sovereignty, we need national media. But it's your job. [[♪ The bell ♪]] as a government majority, it is that they really are national and are based on the Polish national identity and sovereignty. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u594	Thank you, sir. The President of the National Radio and Television Council, Mr Jan Dworak, asked for the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u595	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! I wanted to start by saying that it is better late than never, but I will not dwell on the time of our debate because it has already been discussed in club speeches. Let me just say that the rush and the pressure of time are certainly not the way to prepare a good law. The current project presents a vision of changes that are far more cost-effective, without ideological ideas, which - I am convinced of this, like many other observers - would lead to difficult to predict effects, and certainly to confusion, or maybe chaos, in public media. Such concerns were expressed, among others. outstanding media experts and experts gathered at a conference devoted to the analysis of previous draft media laws, organized by the National Council and the University of Warsaw at the end of May in Warsaw. Speaking about the previous project in the High House, I formulated an assessment that the project proposes a model of centralised, politicised and paternalist public media. The current legislative proposal does not allow this opinion to be changed because it is behind it that vision of the country to which these media are intended to serve. Paternalism manifests itself in two ways. The first is a way of proceding this law, as before, in hiding from the public, without public consultation, without the possibility of a free, broad debate - a debate, which today is simply a feature of a well-functioning democracy. Paternalism is also visible in the vision of the media: very traditional, not social, not based on the development of modern technologies, which provide partner communication between the sender and the recipient. This model, which is presented here, is simply a transfer of what was in the past, and we live in a completely different media world. The media, including regional media, are centralised in this project, subject to much stronger supervision than today by the National Media Council, stronger than today. You can clearly see the Hungarian model here. In 2011, the parliament set up a media mission and property fund, MTVA, which oversees two televisions: Hungarian TV and TV Diuna, or actually Duna, Hungarian radio and information agency. Only that the difference between Hungary and Poland is that Hungary had to reproduce the model of public media after a great collapse, and in Poland - with all its weaknesses and disadvantages - public media occupied and still occupy an important part of the electronic media market. Hungary is other public media, their history of recent years is different and another tradition, a smaller country, not such a country as Poland - and I will come back to that for a while. And finally the third adjective - politicisation. It hasn't changed either. It involves taking over media power directly by the politicians of the parliamentary majority. It's the model that's actually in the back of all these changes, which is visible in this bill, I don't know what to call it, second personage or episode. This model should be subject to a comprehensive and serious social debate involving social and creative organisations, not only by the state institutions, because, as I said, it does not agree with the history of the newest Polish media and, more importantly, it is not compatible with the acquis, where the self-government of the regions plays a very important role, nor does it take into account technological changes, how the media is used by the especially young generation. With all these model reservations, the current project needs to be given justice. In relation to previous projects, applicants do not push such a significant number of legal violations, starting with infringements of the basic law. However, we still see in this proposal proposals for changes which are contrary to the existing regulations, including the Constitution. That's all that matters. Firstly, the role of the National Radio and Television Council as a constitutional body of the State is still limited. The current draft law, like the previous one, provides for the repeal of the article. Article 6 (6) (a) 2 point 1 of the Act on Radio and Television requiring the National Council to design in agreement with the President of the Council of Ministers of State Policy in the field of Radio and Television. Why these competences are being repealed, this is not understandable. The development of audiovisual policy concerns the entire media market for which the constitutional body of the national council is responsible for the design and development of the media market. I talked about this extensively in discussions on previous projects. The powers of the National Council indicated in the Constitution and in the Radio and Television Act support the recognition of the National Council as the body competent in shaping State policy in the field of radio and television. It is in the public interest that the position of the National Council should be taken into account in the course of work relating to this sphere of public life. Repeal of the Article Article 6 (6) (a) Point 2 (1) limits not only the competence of the national Council to create state policy, but also the capacity of the various governmental bodies and other public institutions to use the information resources of the national Council and to involve it in the implementation of socially important actions. With the information gathered and developed on the media, only the National Council of Radiophony and Television is adequately prepared to support the Minister of Culture and National Heritage and the Minister of Digitisation in preparing the positions of Poland in the European Commission's work on media and some aspects related to electronic communications issues. This is particularly incomprehensible when the work on amending the European Audiovisual Directive strengthens the position of regulators in national and European forums. Here it is as if we were going in a completely opposite direction than this trend, which is very clear. The Commission has recently published a proposal to amend audiovisual law and there is very clear emphasis on strengthening the role of regulators such as the National Council. A special organisation has been set up, ERGA, which is an advisory body at the European Commission's high level. However, this draft amendment unfortunately greatly limits the role of the national council on the whole market. Secondly, the powers of the National Media Council vis-à-vis supervisory boards are unclear. The December Amendment Act gave the Minister of the Treasury the authority to appoint companies, which triggered a strong and legitimate protest at home and abroad. The current project transmits the appointment of company bodies from the powers of the government body to the National Media Council, whose members no longer need to be experts in the field of media as previously recorded, but only have to distinguish themselves with the knowledge of company law as it is recorded in the current project. Since the project does not exclude the possibility of combining the functions of a member of the National Media Council with certain types of political activity, it will be directly involved in the political trend. Member of the National Media Council, this too has already been mentioned in this Chamber, can be an active politician, supervise public media and at the same time hold a parliamentary mandate. In most European bodies supervising the performance of tasks carried out by public media, it is prohibited to combine these functions. In some countries, this also applies to the exercise of the mandate of a member of the European Parliament, of local Parliaments, of a judge, of a prosecutor, of a civil servant. It should be stressed that the proposal does not contain transparent regulation on matters of competence. The proof of this is, among other things. the proposed provision on the participation of members of the National Media Council in the general meeting of shareholders, i.e. the Minister of Treasury. In what capacity? The project doesn't specify that. It should be stressed that the proposed law does not provide the legal basis for the responsibility of the members of the National Media Council for the actions taken. Doubts about the interrelationship between the National Media Council and the Minister of Treasury, acting as the General Court, are compounded by the proposal contained in the article. 2 of the project, de facto being a modification of the regulations contained in k.s.h. and relating to companies: the Council carries out legal activities concerning the structure and personal composition of bodies of 20 companies of the Treasury, public broadcasting units and PAP, with a view to their thorough fulfilment of their statutory tasks, as well as protecting their editorial independence and independence from executive authorities in terms of content and form of transmission. I would like to draw attention here to the article. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2, which refers to the fact that the companies' authorities operate in the composition existing on the date of entry into force of this Act until amendments are made pursuant to the Act referred to in Article. 10 or 11 or amended articles of association. The person appointed as a member of the company's body for a certain term of office may be revoked before the end of his term of office only for the reasons set out in the provisions of the law, very hard, we know these reasons, or in the provisions of the statutes in force on the date of appointment. This would have led to the conclusion that the National Media Council would be able to appoint new authorities, for which it is actually called - it is also about some changes in the statute, but the main function is to appoint public media authorities - it will only be able to do so after the end of the term of office of the current authorities, i.e. after 3 or 4 years. Why should this National Media Council be established now that the most important functions of the National Media Council can only be performed in three or four years? The independence of public media has been repeatedly addressed by the Council of Europe. I would just like to remind you that the Council of Europe, in the declaration of the Committee of Ministers of 15 February 2012 and in the recommendation of the Committee of Ministers to the Member States on guaranteeing the independence of public broadcasters, states that public media should remain independent of political or economic influence, aiming at the highest standards of independence, objectivity and justice. Art. 3 the current legislative proposal states that the members of the Council are independent in the performance of their functions, serving the public good. But how do we really reconcile this with belonging to a political party, to parliamentary clubs that are based on, well, we know, completely different logic? It is also doubtful that the provision on the appointment of the President of the National Media Council is in line. I'm sorry, this time it's about reducing the number of members on the national council. It raises doubts about the appointment of one member by the president. This is a constitutional question, because according to the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the implementation of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 on the Financial It is very clear there, so it is said that the President can only appoint one member, contrary to the wording of the article. 144, where the plural is used in the recipe. It is therefore doubtful that the President should appoint only one member of the National Council, with its membership reduced to three. Finally, I would like to say that the role of the Senate is unclear because, as you know, the members of the National Media Council are only called by the Sejm and the President, the Senate is excluded from this function, and according to the provisions of the Act it is to receive, it is to be addressed to the report of the National Media Council. It is not known why it should receive this information if it does not participate in the appointment of members of the National Media Council and does not impose constitutional obligations on it concerning radio and television. The draft law contains legislative shortcomings, including, but not limited to: I will not bore the High House with these examples. The national council has had time since morning to prepare its observations. We've actually been working on this case since this morning. It's only hours. From here, I've only focused on the most important things. As far as possible, we will provide the Sejm with more precise analyses as possible. But at the end of the day, I wanted to say something else, and I wanted to say something about what isn't here. There is no change in the way the media is financed. We have assurances that such a way of financing the media will be developed soon, but I would like to remind you that these 2.5 billion PLN, to be exact, which is needed by the media according to the National Radio and Television Council - we know that there are different estimates - this is the possibility of decommercialisation. In fact, this is the only significant positive change that I would personally promise myself after the changes that have been announced for a year now. Without this, without this change in funding, there is no way to think about the real reform of public media. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u596	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to inform the High House that eight parliamentarians have joined the questions. If there are no more volunteers, I'm closing the list. The time for questioning is 1 minute. Mr Grzegorz Furgo will be the first question to be asked. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u597	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Minister, what do you mean by announcing the second bridge bill? I understand that over the next few weeks the issue of charging audiovisual fees will be resolved. I suggest, ladies and gentlemen, the memories of all these experiences, one thing: consult, talk. The wise will help, the weak will only interfere, and all Poles will pay for this mediocrity that you so much believe in. Finally, I would like you to take into account that there is an Internet. A very large part of society isn't as interested in this TV mission as you are, because there's just no TV. But why would they have to pay for this program mess? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u598	Thank you, sir. Another question is asked by Mr Michał Stasiński, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u599	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I'm looking at your faces full of embarrassment. In a weak way, this embarrassment masks your dramatic incompetence. Isn't it a political giggle that you have the only explanation for this incompetence that you have so disliked the European Union and the need for notification? What would you like to do? Did they if it wasn't necessary? The public hearing on the bill, during which we witnessed, how your concepts, your laws have been run over by road combat several times, has shown that unfortunately you are not able to learn that your projects are bad. Unfortunately, I'm afraid we're not gonna get public television because it's gonna disappear. You put public television in the hands of a murderer. That someone is Jacek Kurski, he kills public media. Before you pass new laws, these media simply will not be, and unfortunately they are us [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's very necessary. I wish you'd just come to your senses. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u600	Mr President, I have such a huge request, both to you and to all the next speakers, to weigh the words. I find it highly inappropriate to use such terms with the President of Polish Television. Even the late hours and your tiredness are no excuse here, I suppose. Please take the floor of Mrs Marta Golbik, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u601	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have to say, I'm not surprised we're running this bill at this hour. The voters were looking forward to the repeatedly announced reform of public media, a large media law, a change in the functioning of public media, and they received the Human Resources Act for the first time. I think you've been trying to explain it, but once again they've been given the Human Resources Act. But what worries the most is that this Human Resources Act also politicizes the National Media Council, and that's worrying, because if you have such opportunities, it would be worth depoliticating the National Media Council. Mechanisms should be created that make there really is pluralism when it comes to political views. It's also strange that the president has to choose between two candidates for one place. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I wonder what you're afraid of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u602	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Sitarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u603	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the explanatory memorandum to the draft law on page. 1 I read in chapter 1 that there is a need to adopt a proposed law so as to avoid, quote, legal chaos. I would ask the applicant's representative to answer why we are proceding, quoting, an accident act, in short, temporary, with a pre-defined end of validity. If, as the Secretary of State Krzysztof Czabański says, it is necessary, I quote, a bridge law, then at this rate of fluctuations, what is the meaning of notification of this law by the European Commission at all? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u604	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Bogusław Sonik. [[Oh, and a formal conclusion, Mr. Marshal.]] Please, since the formal application...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u605	So, yes, because the rapporteur is unable to answer the question, because she is simply not there, she has come out, I am making a formal request that she should reply in writing, because it has recently become a tradition that the rapporteurs are leaving...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u606	This is not a formal proposal, Mr President, thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u607	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u608	Please take the floor of Mr Bogusław Sonik.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u609	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Well, it turns out it's easier to win an election than to draw up a comprehensive law to reform public media. From this bleacher, from this speaker in December I warned, in fact I foretold that makeshifts like to last a long time. And unfortunately, that's true. My mom was a seamstress, and in my house it was very often the word "fashioning." Fastrying, i.e. temporary stitching of fabric for a short period of time. We're witnesses here. That's the kind of fascism that's going on. I would suggest using the bill that the Civic Platform has submitted. Ms Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska was the author of it. It was a citizen-friendly project, [[♪ The bell ♪]] for public media. There is an opportunity to simply use the records that were included in this project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u610	Thank you, sir. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Ursula Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u611	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Well, it's not the first night experience in public media reform. I perfectly remember the experience of pushing between the Law and Justice, the League of Polish Families and Self-Defense in 2005. This time you were so quick to reform the media that you did not notice the need for notification. You were surprised by this procedure. But that's not the saddest part. The sad thing is that you mocked a lot of organizations who took part in a public hearing. And that's the pace, the outrageous pace, all morning. Mr. Marshal is still trying to explain. Shameful, ladies and gentlemen. I think it would be nicer and fairer if you just said it was about destroying the National Radio and Television Council. Actually, you don't know why, because you're gonna do it soon, and you're gonna fill your own media authorities in any way. And the enchantment of reality that the council will be a non-political body is completely unbelievable, because freshly we remember your many experiences, your achievements in the mass filling of posts without worrying about competitions. These two seats for opposition candidates are simply [[♪ The bell ♪]] a fig leaf on the shameful construction of the National Media Council. Minister, maybe there's some light on the thought I'd like you to tell us here because we don't see it lately. But I'd like you to explain it to us so that the public can react. It was better than how the public reacted to President Kurski in Opole. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u612	Thank you, Member. I guess we have a different sense of shame. For me, the fact that we've been working since morning is absolutely no reason to be ashamed, but on the contrary. [[You know exactly what I'm talking about, marshal.]] I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Anna Wasilewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u613	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The PiS government can't handle the media bill, and that's very good news. That means there will be no further spoiling of public media for now. From the beginning I thought that it was impossible to treat the Polish Television and Polish Radio as a press office of the government, and that is what is happening today. The rules currently in force will cease to apply at the end of the month. You had six months to act and a major change in public media. Now it's quiet. This shows your inability. I ask: Is it true that politicians may be active members of the National Media Council? Because that's what the bill says. For what is not forbidden is permitted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u614	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Wojciech the King.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u615	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I will start by saying that all of a sudden, it's after the devil, and I think Mr Cymanski will agree with me. I think you all agree with me on this, too, that the media should be public, not party. A few questions for the applicants. First of all, why at night, after midnight? And I would ask you to have the courage to answer this question honestly. Why are you creating a provisional law and what was the purpose of setting up a special, dedicated subcommittee for the examination of media laws? What was the purpose of public hearing if you were pushing another bill under cover of the night? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u616	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Paul Szramka.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u617	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the Law and Justice Members, you are completely ignoring the opposition, and therefore you are blowing off part of society, those people who voted for us. In a minute, these people are gonna start blowing you off. And I'm wondering why you guys need to see the media when no one's gonna watch and listen. Thank you. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u618	Well, these smiles and applause are very astonishing, they would seem so noble and experienced parliamentarians, and cultural, but well... [[They're young people, Mr. Marshal, young people.]] Of course. It's rural. Please, Mrs Andzelika Możjanowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u619	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We also understand the applause differently, ladies and gentlemen. Minister, you cannot be accused of inexperience, hence my question. Will the participation of active politicians in the National Media Council guarantee pluralism of these media? On one point in connection with the procedure for this law, or in fact because of the absence of those laws, and with this bridge law, I am pleased - that there will be no mandatory tax on the regime-party media. But, Minister, we have talked so much about funding public media, about guarantees, about missionaryism, about subscription fees, about audiovisual charges. Is there a time when we will be waiting and there will be a notification process in the European Commission, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will there be any method proposed by the Minister for the subscription fee to be charged to a greater extent? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u620	Thank you, Member. The list of persons enrolled in the questions has been exhausted. I therefore ask the Secretary of State to speak at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, Minister Krzysztof Czabański. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u621	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The government did not take a position on this project, therefore only on its own behalf, as a proxy for the government for the project. reform of public media, I can express my opinion that the project presented by the Law and Justice Club is in line with the large media package, which is also under review in the Seym, and, as far as I know, will continue to be examined. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u622	Thank you, Minister. The question is, is the applicant's representative... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Thank you, Member. [[And the answer to the questions?]] In that case, the discussion is closed. A motion to reject the draft law at first reading was put forward in the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 27 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on the Registration and Protection of the Names and Designations of Agricultural Products and Foods and on Traditional Products and on certain other Acts (Prints Nos 541 and 597). I ask Mr Zbigniew Dolata to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u623	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Senate Resolution on the Act amending the Act on Registration and Protection of the Names and Designations of Agricultural Products and Foods and on Traditional Products and on certain other Acts. Let me just remind you that the law amends the application procedure and shortens the time limits for examining these applications. In addition, the duties of the Chief Commercial Quality Inspector for agri-food products have been extended and clarified. This will improve the efficiency of the system of official controls, which will translate into more effective protection of names on the market. The Senate examined the bill at its meeting on 18 May and adopted four amendments to it. The first eliminates the wording that stresses the need to submit an application in a single copy, since such an emphasis could give rise to doubts, in which cases the legislator does not order it to do so in a single copy, documents should be submitted. Amendment 2 improves the reference in Article. Article 42a (1) (a) (ii) and (iii) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 5. Amendment 3 amends Article. Article 58b (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) Amendment 4 consists in adding in Article. Article 58b (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development at its meeting on 9 June considered the Senate resolution and recommended that the High House adopt all four amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u624	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Zbigniew Dolata will be the first to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u625	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Registration and Protection of agricultural products and foodstuffs and on traditional products and certain other laws contained in print No 541. I discussed the amendments adopted by the Senate as rapporteur for the Agriculture Committee. I will therefore limit myself to saying that Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the Senate's amendments and will vote against them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u626	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Zbigniew Ajchler.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u627	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Club on the Act amending the Act on registration and protection of the names and designations of agricultural products and foodstuffs and on traditional products and on certain other laws, prints Nos 541 and 597. The four amendments of the Senate are minor, so as not to say: grammatical amendments, which do not change the essential style, sound and validity of the above-mentioned law. They are merely technical corrections that will allow you to look at this law, which the Civic Platform in the Sejm has supported. At present, the Committee on Agriculture has also adopted the amendments to the Senate unanimously. I therefore conclude that the Civic Platform Club will vote in favour of these amendments by the Sejm. Time will show how detailed registrations and registrations of geographical origin, product certification will increase consumer confidence and the choice of products in particular Polish, and how financial penalties applied in the above-mentioned Act will deter producers, traders placing goods and products on the market that are not fully compliant with the specifications, according to the specifications. It will certainly also play a role in the graphics and way in which the above information is placed on and on the composition of the product. I would like to stress very seriously and with all my power that this position of the Civic Platform Club is registered as a constructive opposition in our parliament, which is not easy, but shows... [[That you can.]] ...that the issue of voting in the zeerdine system is possible to eliminate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u628	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Jarosław Sachaika.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u629	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! It is my pleasure to present the position of the Kukiz club15 regarding the contested bill. The awareness of producers, consumer awareness, awareness changed by all cases is the basis that all Poles should have today. In many countries the designation of products as regional or traditionally produced is a cornerstone of food promotion. In Poland awareness of the importance of the way of production, the quality of ingredients, traditional recipes, not only for preserving taste qualities, but above all for health, is not yet sufficiently widespread. Sorry to notice It is important that, compared to other European countries, our products are not sufficiently promoted. Currently more than 1000 products with geographical indications or designation of origin are protected in the European Union. The most registered products come from Italy and France. These countries, marking their products, have made them a brand recognized in the world. Poland has only 37. In terms of potential, diversity, rich tradition, quality of products, our country has alarmingly few of these products. However, it is important to remember how the food labelling system was put in place in practice. The countries of the old Union without any documentation and compliance with standards have marked their products with protected marks. On the other hand, strict requirements and procedures have been imposed on the new Member States, so that the deadline for obtaining these indications is several years today. Therefore, in addition to food labelling, we should place particular emphasis on returning to purchasing patriotism. Every citizen should check the bar code of the product and choose our Polish food, [[Applause]] That's the one with the bar code starting at 590. It is also of great benefit that half of the amount spent on the domestic product comes back to us in the form of better roads or other investments. A useful tool for verifying the origin of the product in terms of the place of production and the share of Polish capital is the application for smartphones named Fields. Taking care of the development of the economy by buying Polish food is important now, but it will be very important when the TTIP agreement comes into effect, which will consequently flood the market with just any American products. High Izbo! I appeal, courage. Let us not be ashamed of our native food, which is really high quality, and let us do everything not to destroy good Polish agriculture. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u630	Thank you. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Ewa Lieder.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u631	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The Senate's work on amending the Act on the Registration and Protection of the Names and Markings of Agricultural Products and Foods and on Traditional Products and some other laws introduced amendments mainly of an editorial and clarification nature. An important amendment tabled by the Senate shall be the addition in Article. 1 in point 34 (1). 5 in Article 5, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 58b, which also refers to the monetary penalty for the re-use of the protected name in respect of a product which does not comply with the specification. The Chairman of the Agriculture and Agriculture Committee, in his opinion on the bill submitted, pointed to the lack of regulation which would guarantee the high quality of the final product placed on the market because the production process is certified and not the product itself. Our support for this law stems from the benefits that Polish agriculture should gain after its introduction. Such legal protection affects the preservation of the identity and quality of unique domestic goods and supports agribusiness. The registration of such products and articles affects the cost-effectiveness of their sales. We want to build a brand of regional and traditional products and the economic benefits that result. One of the very important objectives of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union, which is the basis for this project, is the benefit for the rural economy. We expect this to result in higher levels of employment and higher wages in disadvantaged areas, for example. mountain areas. In long-term predictions, this is supposed to stop the depopulation of such places. This is so important that about 38% of Poles live in rural areas and about 15% of Poles live in rural areas. keeps up with agricultural work. We hope that the acceleration of the labeling process will allow for even more Polish agricultural products on the EU market, promoting our country, including unprocessed products, consumed locally, which are registered in countries such as Spain, France, Italy, Greece very much. Markings increase the market rank and value of such products. It is also a form of protection of the country's cultural heritage. We hope that the law will come out against consumers for whom there is clear and reliable information about the product and its quality in fair competition. This is largely the case for tourism and therefore for the development of the region concerned. The next step on the ground of both European and Polish law should be the protection of non-agricultural products such as sentinel granite, cognac lace, Krosnień glass or bolesławice ceramics. The European Parliament is working on such regulations. The purpose of this law is to influence the development of quality policy and rural development policy. Promotional and information campaigns on such products and on the system of registration and protection of designations of origin, geographical indications and traditional specialities guaranteed for agricultural products and foodstuffs are important. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, the Modern Posel Club declares its support for these amendments and the entire bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u632	Thank you. And please take the floor of Mrs Margaret Zwierzan. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u633	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In this law we have adapted to Polish law the rules concerning the procedure of opposition to applications for registration submitted by another country, and we have strengthened the system of supervision and improved the effectiveness of official controls of the system of protected designations of origin, protected geographical indications and traditional specialities guaranteed. On 19 May 2016, the Senate of the Republic of Poland, after considering the Act on the amendment of the Act on the Registration and Protection of the Names and Designations of Agricultural Products and Foods and on Traditional Products and on certain other Acts, adopted a resolution concerning amendments to the Act in question. In addition to changes of an editorial nature, one paragraph has been added to govern the proceedings against re-protected names, recipes or other scope of protection of registered products. This small change in my opinion makes it possible to better protect the names of registered agricultural products and foodstuffs and traditional products. The imposition of penalties on non-respective offenders is an appropriate safeguard of products that constitute a national good, stress our distinctness and attachment to tradition. The Polish Free and Solidarni Circle will support the changes proposed in the resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u634	Thank you, Member. I would like to inform the High House that a representative of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, Mr Marek Sawicki, has made his statement in writing. High Izbo! One Member joined the questions. I can't see any more people. I'm closing the list. Question time - 1 minute. Please, the question is asked by Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u635	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the occasion of this bill, I would like to raise a few other points. How will you protect Polish food after the TTIP agreement, for which the Ministry of Development and Prime Minister Morawiecki opts, while the Ministry of Agriculture, judging by committee meetings, is against, and here I see a clear gap. I'd like to know what the general position will be, because it will damage agriculture. How will you protect Polish food when it is designated as the second category, because we use mainly coal-based energy for its production, so when we export our food will be designated as the second category, while after the TTIP agreement has entered into the store shelves we will have cheap plastic. And as we know, Poland is not wealthy, Poles are not wealthy and will buy just such food, and next to it will have Polish food, which will be marked with a stamp of the second category. What about these problems? How do you want to deal with this? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because neither this bill nor consumer awareness will help with the TTIP agreement and the labelling of food when the Polish healthy food is lyingly designated as the second category. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u636	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Minister Jack Bogucki, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. You're welcome, Minister. [[Spread your wings, Minister.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u637	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! We'll be fine, we'll just be fine, we'll deal with all the problems you've been talking about. As far as the TTIP deal is concerned, there's no division in the government. The position is clear: there is no consent to the deterioration of food quality in Europe and Poland. There is a complete list of sensitive products that will continue to be protected in the customs system, and Poland will not depart from it, [[Applause]] as it does not, I hope, the whole of the European Union. The same is true when it comes to the second problem. It is a project that has emerged, but it is not yet a European Union document that is in force. We will work on it so that Polish food is marked according to its good quality, which we provide. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u638	Thank you, Minister. Would the rapporteur also like to speak? [[No, thank you.]] Thank you, sir, in that case. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u639	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The House has made four amendments. The amendment implements EU regulations into Polish law in order to protect registered regional products more effectively. It amends the procedure for submitting applications for registration so-called. protected designations, protected geographical indications and traditional specialities guaranteed. The time limits for examining applications for registration are to be reduced. The Act complements the catalogue of tools for supervising the activities of certification bodies. The duties of the chief inspector of the commercial quality of agri-food products and the principles of cooperation with the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection shall be clarified. The Act requires the principal inspector of the commercial quality of agri-food products to publish on the website a list of producers holding a valid quality certificate confirming the conformity of the production process of the agricultural product or foodstuff with the specification, or a valid certificate of conformity. The amendment provides for the replacement of criminal rules on liability for incorrect use of registered administrative names with financial penalties. One of the Senate amendments eliminates the wording which stresses the need to submit an application in a single copy. It further clarifies the provisions which impose a specific sanction for the redecision of re-marketing of an agricultural product or foodstuff which has not been labelled or marked in breach of the rules. The others are editorial and precise. The Act shall enter into force 14 days after the date of publication.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u640	We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 28 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on Horse Races (Prints Nos 542 and 598). I ask Mr Richard Bartosik to present a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u641	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Senate's resolution on the Act amending the Act on Horse Races. Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. 54 (1) (a) On 20 May 2016, the Sejm referred the Senate's resolution on the above matter to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for consideration. The Commission, after considering the above resolution, submits: The High Sejm is ready to accept the amendments of the Senate. These are three amendments. High Seym! Briefly about these amendments. Namely, the Senate proposes to increase quorum. As you know, the Council of the Polish Horse Racing Club is now expected to count nine people. In all cases, the quorum will amount to five persons, but in the election of the chairman and the President of the Board it will amount to seven persons. The Commission accepted this proposal. The Senate also considered that the reimbursement of travel costs was to comply with the Road Transport Act of 6 September 2001. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development also welcomed this amendment. In the original version, the Act provided that the functions of President could not be combined with the provision of work with another employer. The Senate decided that this possibility would exist, but with the agreement of the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development. This proposal was also accepted by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. I ask the High House to accept the proposed amendments of the Senate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u642	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Richard Bartosik will be the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u643	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, of recommending to the High House the adoption of the Senate amendments I had just mentioned. I ask the High House to accept these amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u644	Thank you, sir. I inform the High House that Mr Szczerba of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Platform has made a statement in writing. A representative of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, Marek Sawicki, also made a written statement. That is why I would like to ask the floor of Mr Robert Mordak, Kukiz Club15. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] There's no envoy. Then I would ask Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u645	I'm unexpected. [[Save your strength for the Bank Guarantee Fund.]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Modern Club, like before, has huge doubts on whether the Council referred to here will actually have a proper representation of those who are involved on a daily basis... Mr... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[It's not a parker.]] ...people involved in the organisation of horse racing every day. There's been such a doubt before, we have such... [[Voice from the room: Horses have gone on concrete.]] ...doubts because we know the history of Janów Podlaski and there's nothing to laugh about. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: There's something to laugh about.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u646	I would like to ask Mr Cymanski not to make the honourable Member laugh. I understand you're done. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: A colleague will resign.]] Thank you kindly, Member. I ask you to take the floor of Mr Ireneus for profit. I hope you will not be able to make Mr Cymanski laugh.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u647	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the resolution of the Senate of the Republic on the Act amending the Act on Horse Races. The Senate adopted three amendments to the bill under consideration. Resolutions of the Council of the Polish Horse Racing Club pursuant to art. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 9 laws shall be adopted by a simple majority in the presence of at least five members. In adopting Amendment 1, the Senate took the view that in matters relating to the seat of the President of the Council and the President of the Polish Horse Races Club, it is undesirable for the election to take place by the votes of three members in the presence of five members of the Council. The Senate has therefore decided to raise the quorum required to adopt a resolution on these matters to seven members, which will result in a majority of four members of the Council for the successful selection of the above mentioned functions. In addition, the Senate considered that the cost of travel was reduced to 1/3 so-called. kilometres may have a negative impact on attendance at meetings of the Council, reducing the representativeness of that body. The Senate, adopting Amendment 2, established the amount of reimbursement as equivalent to the product of the kilometres travelled and the rate for 1 km referred to in Article. paragraph 34a. 2 of the Road Transport Act of 6 September 2001. Finally, the Senate considered that a person acting as President of the Polish Horse Racing Club should not be prohibited from taking other occupations. According to the Senate, this provision is too restrictive, and the Senate has therefore accepted Amendment No 3, according to which, if the Minister responsible for Agriculture agrees, the President should be able to work with another employer. According to the Senate, such a solution will provide sufficient protection for the interests of the Polish Horse Racing Club, while at the same time allowing the President to provide another, socially useful work, e.g. teaching or scientific, as indicated in the explanatory memorandum. Members of the Free and Solidarnia Circle share the positive opinion of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in the scope of the amendments introduced by the Senate of the Republic of Poland, which will have a positive impact on the functioning of the Polish Horse Racing Club. About Free and Solidarni will vote in favour of the Senate's amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u648	Thank you, sir. None of the ladies and gentlemen signed up for the questions. [[Me too.]] [[No one signed up.]] During this time, which remains modern, please, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u649	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At the outset, it is worth noting that the club of Modernzna was negative about the draft amendment of the law by PiS. It is in our view a project far from excellence and requiring at least a number of amendments to reduce its negative impact on the organisation of horse racing and its environment. The assessment of the amendments proposed by the Senate varies. In our view, it makes sense to propose to amend the proposed wording of the article so far. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 9 horse racing laws included in Amendment 1. In fact, the wording so far could have led to decisions on a crucial issue of the cast of the position of the chairman of the Council and the president of the horse racing club in the presence of only five members, by a majority of three. The amendment proposed by the Senate will change this curial situation where a small number of members could decide on this issue in the absence of the others. The four-members seem reasonable both because of the oddity of this number, which will facilitate the settlement of the vote and because it is not a paralysing quorum. Public opinion is known for draft laws, in which the ruling majority proposes institutional and organisational requirements for presence, in most cases blocking the de facto efficiency of certain institutions, as was the case with the notified draft law on the Constitutional Court by PiS. In the case of amendments tabled by the Senate to the law amending the horse racing law, there is no such threat. As regards Amendment 2, although it is difficult to agree with the stated objective of the proposed amendment, this is the pursuit of [[♪ The bell ♪]] Whereas it is not understandable to propose amendments to the law on financial consequences in the absence of any calculations in this regard to ensure that the Council is present as much as possible at its meetings.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u650	However, my fellow Member, time is passing.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u651	I have a request, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u652	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u653	Thank you. [[For the amazon.]] Considerations on any compensation of transport costs for members of the Council should be based in full or in part on an impact assessment of one or another regulation, without questioning the substance of the problem. The Modern Club was not convinced by the argument put forward by the Senate because of its...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u654	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u655	...Laconicity and lack of any calculations.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u656	Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u657	Two more sentences.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u658	You asked for 10 seconds, please, Member, really.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u659	Okay. Amendment 3 by the Senate included in the seym...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u660	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u661	...No. 542 to the Act amending the Act on Horse Racing...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u662	Madame, I ask you very, very kindly...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u663	...has increased control over the real influence of the Minister of Agriculture on the activities of the president of the club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u664	Yes, thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u665	According to the assumption...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u666	Thank you kindly, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u667	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u668	Thank you very much. Mrs Hennig-Kloska, I would like to console you that she is not the first one to fall in an unstoppable laughter attack because of horses. I remember such a situation with Marshal Komorowski, in the case of the Horses Act, as well. He's gone too. [[Joy in the Chamber]] as well as the honourable Member. Yes, thank you kindly. [[Member Paulin Hennig-Kloska: We have a chance together for the Contact Glass.]] With President Komorowski, no doubt. Please address the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Minister Jack Bogucki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u669	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank the High House for working on these two projects, the previous and the present, for its substantive work. However, this late time sometimes allows us to work in a completely compatible way in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u670	Thank you very much. Are you the rapporteur? [[One sentence.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u671	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! With regard to representativeness, please do not be alarmed, the representativeness of individual organisations will be preserved. Each organization will have its own representative on the 9-person council. So far it has been so that some organizations had three representatives, two, at the moment each organization will have one representative, i.e. representativeness in the council will be preserved. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Justice.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u672	Thank you, sir. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u673	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Senate accepted three amendments. The amendment aims to change the organisation of the Council of the Polish Horse Racing Club as well as the procedure for the appointment and dismissal of its President. The number of members of the new Council is to be reduced from 15 to 25 persons to a fixed number 9. 8 members of the Council are to be appointed by the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development from among the candidates submitted by the organisations operating in the field of horse racing and one will be the representative of the Minister for Agriculture. The term of office of the Council shall begin on the date of the first meeting, which shall be convened by the Minister of Agriculture, and shall continue, as has been the case so far, for 4 years. The powers of the Board shall be supplemented by the possibility to request the cancellation of its member and the withdrawal of the President of the Club. The President shall be appointed and cancelled by the Minister for Agriculture after consulting the Council. The Act departs from the principle of the term of office. The scope of the President's competence shall be supplemented by the possibility of carrying out checks on the organisers of horse racing. One of the amendments proposed by the senators concerns the voting system on the appeal of the President of the Council and the request for the appeal of the President. It increases the number of members of the board present during the vote to 7 - a simple majority remains. In the remaining votes, there are 5 members, which is a minimum, and a simple majority. The second amendment specifies that delegations are to be cleared not in 1/3 but in full. The third amendment allows the President to take up his scientific work with the agreement of the Minister for Agriculture. The Act is to enter into force 14 days after the date of the announcement. The authorities of the Polish Horse Racing Club are to be established within 60 days of its entry into force.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u674	At its meeting on 19 May 2016, the Senate examined the law amending the horse racing law and adopted three amendments to it. These amendments do not change to any extent the harmful amendment of the Act, the purpose of which is to completely submit the bodies of the Polish Horse Race Club - the President and the Council - the Minister responsible for agriculture. The Act leads to a reduction in the number, representativeness and competence of the Council of the Polish Horse Racing Club. It does not secure sufficient participation in the Council of representatives of organisations of horse breeders, organisations of horse owners, organisations of horse riders and trainers, and organizers of horse races. The Council becomes an unrepresentable body and - with limited competence to appoint and dismiss the president of the PKWK - facade. The amended law is an example of the depropriation and politicalisation of another institution, which should be characterised by professionalism, and the dependence of the appointment and dismissal of the President solely on the one-man decision of the Minister responsible for agriculture. This is a law that eliminates the term of office of President. This law as a parliamentary project was not consulted with the racing environment, including the previous Council of the Polish Horse Racing Club. We have requested that this parliamentary project of the PiS be rejected. The Polish Horse Racing Club cannot be another horse stud in Janów Podlaski, it cannot be another so-called experiment. It's a good change. High Izbo! Now let's move on to the Senate's amendments. On the basis of the article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 9 resolutions of the Council of the Polish Horse Racing Club are taken by simple majority in the presence of at least five of its members. The Senate took the view that in matters relating to the seat of the President of the Council and the President of the Polish Horse Race Club, it is not possible for the election to take place by the votes of three members (with the presence of five members of the Council). The Senate therefore decided to raise the quorum required to adopt a resolution on these matters to seven members. It doesn't matter, because the minister, in the absence of a positive opinion of the candidate by the council, will still be able to appoint him. Amendment 2 concerns the reimbursement of travel expenses by a member of the Board. Before the amendment it was a function performed completely socially, without reimbursement of the travel costs. On the basis of the article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation 2 acting as President may not be combined with the provision of work with another employer and the performance, contrary to the obligations arising out of the duties of other occupations. According to the Senate, this provision is too restrictive. In cases where the Minister responsible for Agriculture agrees, the President should be able to work with another employer. Thanks to this solution, the president will be able to be employed by two or several employers, which can adversely affect the quality of work in the Polish Horse Racing Club. The PO Club is opposed to this amendment and will also vote against the Senate amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u675	We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 29 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Economics and Development on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on Export Insurance Guaranteed by the State Treasury and certain other laws (prints Nos 543 and 599). I ask Mr Wojciech Zubowski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u676	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On 9 June, the Joint Committees: Economics and Development and Public Finances considered the amendments proposed in the Senate Resolution of 19 May 2016 to the Act amending the Act on Export Insurance Guaranteed by the State Treasury and certain other laws. The Senate proposed the following four amendments: (b) in Article 4 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013; 1 in point 1 in point (a) (c) paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 3a and 3b are replaced by the following: 3a. The Management Board of the Corporation shall be able to handle matters of the company and adopt resolutions if the number of its members is not less than 3 persons. 3b. Where the number of members of the Management Board of the Corporation is less than 4, steps shall be taken within 30 days to supplement the composition of up to 4 persons. 2. Article 2 shall be deleted. 3; 3. in Article 2, paragraph 1 is (a) in point 2 (a) (b) paragraph 2. 1a and 1b are replaced by the following: Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay. The Supervisory Board shall be capable of carrying out its tasks and adopting resolutions if the number of its members is not less than 8 persons. 1b. Where the number of members of the Supervisory Board is less than 12, steps shall be taken within 30 days to supplement the composition of up to 12 persons. (b) in point 4 in point (b) (b) paragraph 2. 2a and 2b are replaced by the following: I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The Management Board shall be able to direct the activities of BGK and adopt resolutions if the number of its members is not less than 3 persons. 2b. Where the number of members of the Management Board is less than 6, steps shall be taken within 30 days to supplement the composition of the Management Board to up to 6 persons. 4. in Article 2, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 4 in point 2 in point (a) (c) paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 3 is replaced by the following: 3. The Chairman of the Supervisory Board shall be appointed and dismissed by the President of the Council of Ministers at the request of the Minister responsible for Economic Affairs. The other members of the Supervisory Board shall be appointed and dismissed by the President of the Council of Ministers at the request of the relevant ministers referred to in paragraph 1. 4. A member of the Supervisory Board may not be a member of the Management Board. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Joint Committees: Economics and Development and Public Finances gave an opinion on the amendments and recommended that all amendments proposed by the Senate be adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u677	Thank you, sir. [[Bravo!]] The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. And please take the floor of Mr Wojciech Zubowski. [[In a different role this time.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u678	Thank you. In a different role. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice regarding the amendments proposed by the Senate to the Act amending the Act on Export Insurance Guaranteed by the Treasury and certain other laws. As I said just now as rapporteur, these are four amendments. We recommend accepting them all and ask the High House to give a positive opinion on the changes proposed by the Senate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u679	Thank you, sir. I would like to inform the High House that Mrs Bożena Szydłowska from the Civic Platform Club has made her statement in writing. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, the Polish People's Party, also made his statement in writing. In that case, please take the floor of Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, Kukiz Club15. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] There isn't. Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, the Modern Club. [[Hard, resistant.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u680	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! It is not easy at this hour to fight against time and with Mr Cymanski... [[But you have to.]] ...but we can do it. [[So do we.]] The Senate's amendments to the Act are clear and editorial in most cases. I would like to say that unfortunately, as well as the debate in the Senate or earlier committees, our three fundamental doubts, which concerned this law of competence, have not been removed. The first issue that raised doubts was the transfer of supervision on guarantees and guarantees from the responsibility of the Minister responsible for finance to the responsibility of the Minister for Development. We have talked about this in a decisive way, that this poses a risk of a slightly different distribution of accents in these matters. The Minister responsible for Development will necessarily be interested in carrying out as many projects as possible in this area, while the Minister responsible for Finance put the emphasis primarily on the function of ensuring adequate security of the state budget. That's why we're worried. The second issue is the separation of ownership supervision. So far, supervision has been concentrated in the Ministry of the Treasury, but this law includes, among other things, but also other earlier ones. contribute to the dispersal of ownership supervision. We have such a fundamental concern that the rules of supervision, a certain system of supervision will now look very different in different resorts. This is a serious issue. Finally, the third issue, which concerns us, is the increase in the number of organs actually in every case. We are talking about the Management Board of Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego or other entities or agencies of the State Treasury. There are no reasons for such an extension in the bill. The only reason for this is the desire to provide positions for party activists. I hope it doesn't. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u681	Thank you. Mr Ireneusz Gaina will speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u682	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the report of the Senate's committee on the Act amending the Act on Export Insurance Guaranteed by the State Treasury and certain other laws. At its meeting on 13 May 2016, the Sejm of the Republic of Poland adopted a law amending the Act on Export Insurance Guaranteed by the State Treasury and certain other laws. The Senate of the Republic of Poland adopted four amendments to the Act which are the subject of today's report on 19 May. In the opinion of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, these amendments represent an inherent aspect of the Senate's efforts to improve the quality of its law. In particular, it is worth noting the amendment of paragraph 2 of the Senate resolution, where the various dates of entry into force of the Act in question and the Act of 13 May 2016 amending the Public Procurement Law and certain other laws were rightly pointed out, which would result in a conflict between the Law on Government Administrations and the Law on Public Procurement for a certain period of time. The Senate therefore proposed to delete the article. 3 of the Act in question and the transfer of its content to a major novelty of the Public Procurement Law, so that all changes related to the change of competence in the supervision of the President of the Public Procurement Office enter into force within a single period of time. The amendments contained in paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Senate resolution, which contribute to the harmonisation of the terminology used in the amended laws and the precise dedication of the intention of the legislator, are also reasonable in fulfilling the principles of correct legislation contained in the regulation of the President of the Council of Ministers on legislative technique. On the other hand, on paragraph 1 of the resolution modifying Article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3a and 3d of the Act on Export Insurance Guaranteed by the State Treasury is of vital importance the doubts indicated in the justification of the Senate resolution, namely what the legislator understood under the concepts of the ability of the Management Board of Export Credit Insurance Corporation to act and adopt important resolutions. As the Senate points out, these concepts are unknown to the Commercial Companies Code, which is subject to corporate rules as a public limited company. Therefore, the Senate assumed that the legislator's will was that the hull board, i.e. having fewer members than that indicated in the provision, it was not de facto the company's body and therefore could not adopt binding resolutions, in particular as regards the submission of declarations of intent, the representation of the company, but merely had the right to conduct its cases. Taking into account the report of the Senate Board, the Free and Solidarni Circle will support the Senate's amendments to the Act amending the Act on Export Insurance Guaranteed by the State Treasury and certain other laws. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u683	Thank you, sir. One Member asked the question. If more people aren't there, I'm closing the list of people saved. The time for questioning is 1 minute. Please, Mr Zbigniew Gryglas.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u684	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! A very short question. Minister, if you would be able to address the issue I mentioned earlier in my supervision of the landlord. In the literature of the subject there are actually two such supervisory systems: centralised and dual, in which this supervision can be exercised. I understand we're leaving the centralized system where the treasure minister was the main subject of such supervision. Even the OECD's recommendations are such as to create a type of body which will, however, aim to ensure that these supervisory tasks are somehow defined to be uniform for all government agencies, ministries, offices that carry out this oversight. Whether the government thinks of such a solution or leaves the resorts here free of charge, how to [[♪ The bell ♪]] Are they supposed to be supervising this? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u685	Thank you, sir. Do you have an answer for the Undersecretary of State? There's no need for that, Minister. If not, thank you. And the committee rapporteur? Neither did I. In that case, the discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u686	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party will vote in favour of the Senate's amendments to the Act amending the Act on Export Insurance Guaranteed by the State Treasury and certain other laws.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u687	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Today I would like to draw attention to the very important fact that during the work of the Senate on the bill amending the Act on Export Insurance Guaranteed by the State Treasury and some other laws, print No 405, no specific changes were made. As a result, the Sejm is returned to a proposal that maintains solutions radically in breach of the current order, which may have a negative impact on the state of public finances. The changes made to the bill during the work are purely cosmetic and editorial and we have no comment on them. We believe that the adoption by the Sejm of the solutions proposed today in the draft law may continue to undermine the position of Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, an institution whose impact on the state of public finances is beyond overestimated. In view of this situation, the question once again needs to be asked: Why did the projector decide to weaken the position of Minister of Finance? Does the applicant not fear that the economic policy implemented by the Minister for Development may differ in some respects from the objectives of the Minister of Finance, in particular with regard to the obligation to take care of the state of public finances? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u688	We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 36 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Public Finance on the adoption of the Senate on the Bank Guarantee Fund Act, the deposit guarantee scheme and the compulsory restructuring (prints Nos 594 and 603). I ask Mr Tadeusz Cymanski to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u689	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Honourable, Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! Late time, most citizens are asleep, but some are listening, waiting for what is happening in the Seym, and there is a lot going on. It is my pleasure to announce at the moment that in some pains, perhaps not so great, there is a bill on the Bank Guarantee Fund, a bill which yesterday, but actually 6 hours ago, with some effort and effort, the Parliamentary Committee on Public Finances considered. I was just in the bottom of this honor to present this work, the effect of this work in the form of a brief report, I hope. To get to the point, I would like to say that the Senate, the Higher House, proposed and submitted 44 amendments for the analysis of the Finance Committee, and we have consistently followed the point of all these proposals. But in order not to talk about everyone, because their rank, quality, complexity and weight, truth, above all, are very different, I will concentrate in my report and short statements on those which, in the opinion of the participants, the members of the Parliament's finance committee, the most emotions, were the most important, interesting and important. And yes. The first emotions and the first intersection of ration and argument took place in Amendment 4. This is an amendment which introduces into this law - I will remind you, in the Bank Guarantee Fund Act, the deposit guarantee scheme and the compulsory restructuring system - it gives a delegation to the finance minister to define in the form of a regulation the modalities and conditions for buying out the claims of the cash registers. Here, at this point, the entire burden and contention of the dispute concerned why the positive possibility of the Bank Guarantee Fund is being introduced to the cash registers. There were questions as to why this was not the case with cooperative banks. It is not my job to analyze this comprehensive document. The answer was asked, three times there were words about adequacy, and even if there were rules of paralysis. I don't know if she's looking at me, listening to Mrs. Hennig-Kloska, whether she's the one asking. In any case, there have been such discussions and in order to report, for the full picture I must inform the High House of this. The second story and subsequent emotions are related to amendment 5 and the next, which regulates the composition of the fund board. Here the Senate proposed to eliminate, elegantly speaking, representatives of the Polish Bank Association from the composition of this council. There were, of course, great emotions, various arguments. The applicants, the Senate finance committee, stated that this contradicts a democratic principle, from the elementary leaving, because after all, the Polish Bank Association represents a dominant banking sector, but not all. If these powerful banks are to have their representatives on the board of the fund and the others are not, then there is something wrong, and that's why there was a voice here. Of course, there was a defence of the original text of the law, because it must also be remembered, and it was used as an argument that in the first version of the Ministry's composition, these representatives were. Where did the idea come from, and why, when it came to it, was such a discussion - for some handy, for others not? Of course, the representative, the boss himself, Mr Pietraszkiewicz, present at the meeting, gave historical aspects, using, in his opinion, an unfailing argument that a penny of money is estimated to be 98% funds, they're putting up these powerful banks, and that's the fact, they were used as an argument, and they're not supposed to have representatives, so what it would be like. Also this census theory of history that if there will be no one to look at hands, then then all decisions will indeed be subject to and that it will work against even applicants and will bring here an atmosphere of suspicion about decisions that will be made, and they should be, and hopefully they will be, very transparent. She shared this view at the committee meeting with the President of the National Association of Cooperative Banks, Ms Majerczyk-Frogwoman, who supported it, claiming that it was acceptable and wants the Polish Bank Association to represent it. This is the amendment that was the second such important and most emotional. Finally, I think the third amendment that dominated this discussion - I am talking about a huge amount of time, energy, emotions - is the amendment proposed by the Senate. As far as this was interesting and important, it was probably of a particular nature that there was a significant difference of opinion between the applicants and the amendment concerned a reduction in the capital limit at the time of the establishment of the cooperative bank. Today, there is a group of cooperative banks in Poland that has an ambition and expresses their desire to set up their own bank, which would be an association bank, because such a obligation rests on cooperative banks, but these banks have requested and broadly argued why they want this initial capital to be lower than that which is directly on them today - not EUR 20 million and 10. They justified it. The senators came out to meet these concerns, and they agreed to do so. The opposite was, as I understand it, and until then is the Minister of Finance, who wants, however, based on prudential considerations, as he said... Here was a difference of opinion, there was a great discussion, several examples were given, also a historical aspect, that if we reached the past, when cooperative banks were weak, when they had no money, the European Union imposed and common sense, were changed. I was also in the Sejm at the time, and I remember how it gradually changed: so 500, million, 5 million to strengthen this initial capital, this own capital. It was very logical. Today the situation is different, the banks are not rich, but they are no longer poor, they have developed their own capital, so these important, important aspects are different today. This was an argument in the hands of the banks, which the Senate hastened with help, and we as a finance committee - to the surprise of some and the surprise of others - we supported this and tomorrow, whether today the High Chamber will settle this dispute. I'm not gonna talk about it anymore, and I'm gonna go into detail, and I see the first signs of impatience in my speech, so I'm gonna get to the bottom of this. To sum up, these three points... There were some other ones, including the last one, an extra one, 3a, I'd say. It was that amendment, which aspect that Chapter 3's provisions on cash registers... Here there are SKOKs all the time in the background, why they enter from 1 January 2017 and not as others, for BS. Very intelligently present Deputy Minister, and now he listens to us, noticed that in the original version of the BS they knew that they would be included in this, so they had time. And with the SKOKs it was a little different. They didn't know, so we have to give them a little more time. That was very elegant. Did it convince others? Probably in the vote. Or in your mind? Because it's not always the same. But I'm done. I ask the High House to accept this project. I think it's a long-awaited project. I thank all those who put so much heart and time into this, including the opposition, which was constructive. Maybe not all the time, but the pennies of corrections were corrections that had arms and legs. I also thank the Minister, the Ministry. I hope that the Polish Parliament will adopt this law. I hope that, at many points, by a vast majority and where not, it is only the stone which is and must exist. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u690	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Tadeusz Cymanski will be the first to speak. Mr President, I hope it will be as short as it should be.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u691	It happened to me once in history, when I was the rapporteur, that I said something, and then I had to attack myself, that I disagreed. But this situation is not here, I share the vast majority. I had it myself at one point, but here I am speaking as a club. So the Law and Justice Club will support this bill and vote in favour. I'd like other clubs to follow my lead and my speech. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u692	Thank you. I would like to inform the High House that Mrs Izabela Leszczyn, the Platform Club, and Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, the Polish People's Party, have made their statements in writing. On behalf of the Club Modern Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u693	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Let us remind you that the Bank Guarantee Fund Act is a law that increases the security of people with their deposits in banks and introduces a new model of forced restructuring of financial institutions. We have already talked about this before in the work on this law, that unfortunately in the case of these works, PiS returned to the old rhetoric and decided to favour the SKOK sector with regard to the whole system. Today, the bill came back with the Senate's amendments. In fact, most of the amendments discussed at today's session of the Sejm committee are minor, editorial, not much of a case, but a few of them also appeared, unfortunately, which raised our concern. Turns out the SKOK lobby in the Senate isn't sleeping. I was terrified to see what was going on in the Senate, where even the idea of bailing out the National Bank of Debt against the Banking Guarantee Fund came up. Fortunately, these plans were not implemented and such an amendment to the Sejm did not come back. On the other hand, the two who have been hit are primarily concerned by the two who today have received the support of the committee, of course by a majority of the rights and justice. The first concerns the competence of the Minister of Finance to determine the scope and modalities of the fund's acquisition of SKOK claims in order to improve their liquidity. In fact, as my previous speaker said here, it was difficult to determine whether these rights vis-à-vis banks would be equal or not, for example. cooperative banks and SKOKs, which often compete on the market and where their position in this law has already been very diverse. It is true, given the second amendment, which reduces the number of members of the fund board, because PiS decided to remove representatives of Polish banks' associations from the board that a questionable picture was born. The reason is that the ZBP is a representative of private entities. However, none of the PiS takes into account the fact that it is these private entities that transfer the vast majority of resources to the BFG - as has already been done here, it is estimated that this is around 98%. - both for the payment of deposits and for this compulsory restructuring. Thus, the question arises as to whether someone who finances the fund's activities has no right to exercise any control over it, whether the funds are spent in accordance with the law and whether the rules of the game laid down by the law are respected. So, given the whole picture built, we have huge doubts whether in the future Poles' money will not be [[♪ The bell ♪]] Saved the private interests of the PiS oligarchs. It's the style of Ukraine in Yanukovych's time, not worthy of copying. I hope that doesn't happen. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[We hope it doesn't happen either.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u694	Thank you, Member. There are no envoys for questions. Is the Undersecretary of State interested in answering? No. Are you Tadeusz Cymanski? Neither did I. In that case, the discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u695	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club for the Senate resolution on the Bank Guarantee Fund Act, the deposit guarantee scheme and the forced restructuring of print No. 594. Unfortunately, the legislative process in the Senate took place, as in the Seym, under the dictation of the SKOKs and Senator Bierecki. It is unacceptable, and even shameful, that SKOK-i still receive a concession fee from the ruling party, from Law and Justice. The Senate amendments are, in addition to the purely legislative changes, further facilities for the cashiers. The poor position of the Ministry of Finance and the lack of responsibility for public finances and taxpayers' money are the failure of the Minister of Finance. The unequal treatment of cooperative banks and SKOKs is manifested, among others. the fact that the BFG can acquire and lend claims to banks at risk of insolvency. There are no parallel solutions for small Polish cooperative banks. Another favoritism of SKOKs is a longer vacathio legis with regard to forced restructuring. It is only glad that the determination of the Senators of the Civic Platform led to the withdrawal of the amendment of the Senators of the PiS, which would result in the Polish taxpayer paying PLN 240 million for the National Money. It's still a small part we can get back on trial. Unfortunately, 5 billion PLN was lost out of the pocket of the Polish taxpayer, and part of this money was taken to a company in Luxembourg, a company in which the Senator Bierecki owns the shares, the creator of the biggest scam of the Third Polish Republic, the SKOKs, the Senator, whose Law and Justice made the chairman of the budget committee in the Senate of the Republic of Poland. Minister of Finance, you should be ashamed that you are involved. Ladies and gentlemen of the PiS, the law you established many years ago allowed to rob Poles of many billions of zlotys. This is your true morality. Kalego's morale.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u696	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the Committee on Public Finances on the adoption of the Senate on the Act on the Bank Guarantee Fund, the deposit guarantee system and the compulsory restructuring, prints Nos 594 and 603. By a resolution of 8 June 2016, the Senate of the Republic of Poland introduced 44 amendments to the contested law. The Committee on Public Finance at its meeting today on 9 June 2016 has carefully considered and tabled amendments to the High House. Most of the amendments are clear, legislative. These amendments receive a positive recommendation and the committee requests that they be adopted. With regard to some amendments, so-called. there was no unanimity among the members of the committee. The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party is negative and is against 6 amendments. These are Amendments 4, 5, 8, 31, 42 and 44. We do not agree to restrict the composition of the Banking Council of the Guarantee Fund from 8 to 6 persons and to deprive the representatives of the Union of Polish Banks of their participation in this body. The above concerns amendments 5, 8 and 42. We will also reject Amendment 31, which modifies the definition of the unit managing the protection system so that it is governed by the provisions on the interpretation of cooperative law. IPS is a cooperative set up by cooperative banks - legal entities, each of which is already being mirrored. Attention should be paid to the large costs associated with the control system in the banking cooperative, because these are the fees for auditing the balance sheet, for auditing and, of course, for mirroring each cooperative bank. Amendment 44, however, once again gives privileges to the SKOKs and does not deserve to be accepted in our view.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u697	We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 37 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the adoption of the Senate on the Posting of Workers Act in the framework of the provision of services (prints Nos 593 and 596). I would like to ask Mrs Bożena Borys-Raccoon to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u698	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Seym! Let me just remind you that we are investigating a government proposal for a law on posting workers in the framework of the provision of services. This is the implementation in the Polish legal order of Directive 2014/67/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014. According to Art. Article 23 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of that Directive, Member States are required by 18 June 2016 to adopt laws, regulations and administrative provisions to comply with it. Sejm on May 20th this year. During the third reading, he passed the above law. On 8 June, the Senate introduced seven amendments to the text. These are clarification, ordering, stylistic amendments and aimed at achieving legislative coherence. On 9 June, the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs adopted all the Senate amendments and recommended that the High House adopt them in accordance with the committee report in print No 596. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u699	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Joanna Kopcińska will speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u700	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs in print No 596 concerning the Law of 20 May 2016 on the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services. The governmental bill on posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services was addressed to the Sejm on 1 April this year, then was the subject of the work of the Sejm Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy on 11 May this year, while the Sejm of the Republic of Poland passed the Act on 20 May this year. On 23 May the Act was passed to the Senate Marshal of the Republic of Poland for consideration. On 2 June this year. The law was the subject of the joint work of the Senate Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, which adopted a resolution on the adoption of the law without amendments. At the Senate meeting on 8 June this year. The Senate has adopted a resolution on the law introducing seven amendments to its text. These amendments are legislative and editorial in nature. They aim, in particular, at ensuring the correctness of the wording of the rules, the consistency of terminology in relation to the various legal acts and the greater transparency of the law adopted. On 9 March this year. The law was the subject of a meeting of the Parliamentary Committee on Social Policy and the Family, during which the amendments of the Senate were examined. The Commission unanimously accepted these amendments. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to remind you that the act aims to implement the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council, referred to as the Implementation Directive 2014/67. In accordance with the provisions of that Directive, its implementation by the Member States of the European Union, as already mentioned by my previous speaker, should take place by 18 June 2016. The Act contains a comprehensive regulation concerning the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services, adopting provisions from the Labour Code concerning minimum conditions of employment guaranteed to posted workers in the territory of the Republic of Poland. The bill is to enter into force, as I mentioned, on June 18th this year. This is the day of implementation of the above mentioned. directives in the national legal order. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice requests the adoption of the amendments tabled to the Law of 20 May 2016 on the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u701	Thank you, Member. Katarzyna Mrzygłocka, the Civic Platform Club, made her statement in writing. Similarly, Mrs Joanna Augustynowska from the Modern Club, as well as Mr Krystian Jarubas. There are no questions. Are you the Secretary of State? You're welcome, Minister Stanislaw Swede. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u702	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much to the House for adopting a very important regulation related to the implementation of the Posting of Workers Directive. I would like to thank Mrs Bożena Borys-Szop, the rapporteur of the committee who worked hard, and Mrs Kopcińska, who stayed and made a statement today on behalf of our club, Mrs Kopcińska. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u703	Thank you, too, Minister. Are you the rapporteur? No, I can't see. In that case, the discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u704	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In its resolution on the adoption by the Sejm at its meeting on 20 May 2016 of the Posting of Workers Act in the framework of the provision of services, the Senate decided to introduce 7 amendments to the text of that Law. These are amendments clarifying the definition of an employer posting a worker to the territory of the Republic of Poland and the territory of the Republic of Poland and a common definition concerning the payment of taxes and social security contributions. The next amendment is purely in order of legislative complexity. The next amendments are linguistic in nature and aim at a better formulation of the definitions used. The last amendment seeks consistency in the form in which the State Labour Inspection obtains information from employers and entrepreneurs. All these amendments are necessary for the proper functioning of the legal standards. This shows, however, that in the thicket of the rules that we deal with every day, even legislators are causing a lot of problems, let alone the addressees of these rules. The Modern Club supports and votes in favour of the amendments tabled by the Senate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u705	Position of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party on the report of the Senate's Senate resolution on the Posting of Workers Act in the framework of the provision of services, print Nos 593 and 596. The Club of the Polish People's Party raises no objections and supports the proposed solutions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u706	On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present its position on the Senate resolution on the Posting of Workers Act in the framework of the provision of services. The report is contained in print No 596. The Senate, after considering the Posting of Workers Act adopted by the Sejm at its meeting on 20 May 2016, decided to introduce 7 amendments, of which 5 amendments were of a more precise, orderly and linguistic nature. The Civic Platform Club supports all amendments tabled by the Senate.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u707	We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 9 June. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. I am the first to ask the floor of Mr Simon Giżyński. Absent. Mr Stefan Romecki. He's tough, he's tough. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u708	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 25 years have passed since one of the most important events in the recent history of Poland - the fourth apostolic journey of John Paul II to the homeland, beginning on 1 June 1991 from my home town of Koszalin. In 1991, the Council Poland sought its way on the threshold of freedom. John Paul II was able to predict what happened later and what he warned about. These warnings for Poland did not reach the vulnerable ground. The Pope, as few in our history, experienced the truth of the words: the hardest thing to be a prophet in his own country. The new elites, so eager to photograph with the Pope, did not intend to build Poland on the moral foundation of values and truth. Thank God, the spirit was the motto of this journey, the fourth, and the first to the free country. Thanking God for the gift of freedom, the Pope encouraged that social life be based on universal, common in our civilization area for believers, as well as non-believers ethical principles, Decalogue and Christianity. Here is the Decalogue - said John Paul II in Koszalin - ten words. These ten simple words depend on the future of man and society, the future of the nation, the state, Europe, the world. At the airport in Koszalin, the pope repeated the famous words spoken in 1979 at the Victory Square in Warsaw: "Let your Spirit descend!" And he'll restore the land. Let him renew it. This land needs to be refurbished, restored in the power of the Spirit of Truth. It is worth reflecting on the fact that the statement from the Victory Square is widely known and remembered, while the one from Koszalin, repeated in free Poland, was forgotten. This is symbolic and disturbing. We like to refer papal teaching to the past, to what has passed, but we are reluctant to refer it to the present, the present social and political reality. There is a danger of relativising papal teaching and treating it in historical terms. The trip to Poland coincides with the announcement of the social encyclical Centesimus annus. Many of the thoughts recorded there are key to understanding the current situation of Poland. The Pope defines democracy as a system that ensures the participation of citizens in political and ruling decisions ensures that they can choose and control their own governments. The current electoral order, the change of which the Kukiz15 movement calls for, contradicts these principles. Poles are not sovereign, do not have political subjectivity, passive electoral rights, are unable to control or dismiss their representatives. They do not choose, but only vote for the chosen ones. Leaders and party cameras have taken over the power to appoint Members. The Pope wrote: "Democracy must not foster the emergence of narrow steering groups which, for their own particular advantages or ideological purposes, claim power in the state. Unfortunately, that's what happened. Poland has been subordinated to the selfish interests of the emerging oligarchy. There was no elite spirit, we did not base our social life on sustainable moral principles: solidarity, the common good, subsidiarity. The password of that time became: the first million must be stolen. The 1991 papal teaching was a prophetic premonition of what later became so heavy on our state life and politics, caused profound divisions, and to this day is a ominous mark on social relations: partying, political violence, inability to compromise, concessions, victims of their views. During this journey the pope predicted the direction of the so-called. economic transformation, saying: It is easy to destroy, it is harder to rebuild. It's been destroyed too long. We need to rebuild intensively. It is not possible to continue to recklessly destroy it. He saw the threat of state life resting on oligarchy and bureaucracy, saying: "A living man, the tragedy of his heart, his life, the tragedy of his calling, is always behind analyses and descriptions. He saw threats to the family resulting from an increasing wave of emigration. On the part of the new elites, the Pope encountered a wall of indifference and even resentment. Then the words of a painful complaint came out of his mouth: "This is my mother, this land! This is my mother, this country! These are my brothers and sisters! I don't care if these things don't bother me, they can't hurt me! You should be in pain too! [[♪ The bell ♪]] Only in his homeland can a prophet be so ignored, writes the evangelist. Poland suffers the dramatic consequences of choosing the wrong path and ignoring the warnings of its statesman from 1991. What started in 1991 in Koszalin demands not only reminders but also serious treatment. It's not too late. The papal call from Koszalin is still valid.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u709	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u710	From here, from the Baltic, I beg you, all my fellow countrymen, sons and daughters of the Common Homeland...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u711	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u712	...that you would not allow this teaching, which contains God's truth and God's law, to be broken. So that you may glue them back together if it breaks. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u713	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Norbart Kaczmarczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u714	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In this House, we are debating many important things. We're arguing and we're wondering what kind of solutions we're going to apply. We want to build new roads or give people money, as in the case of the 500+ program. Meanwhile, in many places, in places that are not visible from the perspective of Warsaw, people and local governments are fighting for basic things. For example, 50 million PLN was spent on the portal Empathy. It was decided to support many different kinds of actions for really serious money. So why is it that funds are not automatically transferred to those municipalities that are unable to provide residents with access to such basic things as drinking water in the 21st century? Yes, you will say that there is a local government. This is the case in Proszowice, a town near Krakow. Over 6,000 people are expected to visit him during World Youth Days. Pilgrims from Italy. For many years there have been breaks in water supply in Proszowice. This is related to its contamination. The previous authorities in this area did nothing. The shots were switched, the net was washed, water was supplied in bottles. During this term of office, the current municipal authorities have taken steps to change this state of affairs. A municipal company was established and the price of water was increased. But that's not enough. Neglects are so vast that it is extremely difficult to cope with this problem. In many places, the network needs to be completely modernised. There is also a need to modernise water shots and build new ones. After the acquisition by the municipal company of the water treatment station, it turned out that the equipment remembers the previous era there. Specialists wonder how these devices still function so far. This station was closed in the last days by the decision of the district health inspector in Proszowice. It is recommended to stop watering plants, which in the municipality is typically unthinkable, especially during the heat period. Yes, you will say that the local government is to cope with the need to finance the modernisation of networks, water treatment stations or water shots. However, what will the mayor of the municipality and the town of Proszowice do in a situation where his predecessor left him a completely indebted municipality, with massive investments started, for which there were also no sources of funding? The municipality in such a situation strives to carry out its basic tasks, and in a situation where it faces such a huge task, it is not able to cope alone. People don't have drinking water. There's a huge epidemiological threat, there's contamination over and over again, which could lead to a huge tragedy if this problem isn't solved. In the context of the upcoming World Youth Days is It's particularly scary. What are all these people gonna drink when water demand goes up dramatically? Let us provide our citizens with the basic conditions for existence in the 21st century. I ask you a question and I will also make an interpellation on this matter: Can the municipality and the city of Proszowice in this difficult situation in which she was placed count on government support? Will measures be put in place to help deliver the right investment and provide clean drinking water in the perspective? Before spending money on other purposes, let us ensure that the inhabitants meet their basic needs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u715	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Jack Kurzepa.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u716	Mr. Marshal! Fellow Members! Listeners! I had special guests in the Seym today. For Members with many years of internship, perhaps it is no longer something exciting, for me, the debuter, it has become important that this is what is happening again for the first time. I hosted the Sejm awarded by the team of the 13th Świebodzińska Scouts Team - the best of the best. They've arrived with great uniforms, worthy of the place they've been invited to. By accompanying them, with them I experienced various excitements here in the Seym. And it started, of course, with the typical fear that the Marshal's Guard will judge something in our behaviour as a threat to security and will not let in, or the feeling that something from the terrorist's attitude appears in me, that probably on the gate will knock and I will also not be able to enter. And I'm gonna say that everyone does, whether he's a young boy scout or a grown man. We see these behaviors on each of the trips. However, I would like to say that this fear falls. That's not what I saw. I saw the boy scout's head spinning at the maximum speed, because it was worth it. Seeing. And when the media politicians showed up on the horizon, it was my job to invite them to share a picture. And thank you, fellow Members, for your understanding, your kindness and your face. My scouts went crazy seeing Professor Pawłowicz and talking to her, and I was surprised that they knew both the expression of the professor and its political dynamics. After a while, their passion shifted to Paul Kukiz, who patiently shared his artifact with each of them. Luck reached the zenith. Only I, inviting, forgotten and almost pushed off the aphis, had a sense of severe injustice of fate. Of course, for those of you who don't understand this joke, I say it's a joke. In a word, the experience of power. And also cordial conversations with Wojtek Potatoes or Arthur Gerada, even though they are not from my formation. In a word, I would like to say that I am incredibly grateful to the ladies and gentlemen of the Sejm Universe, the Marshal's Guard for their help in carrying out and carrying out this visit, to the ladies who organized the column room - that they have endured a scouting storm and have helped cross-country travellers with spa water. I would like to thank my fellow Members for their willingness to enter into dialogue with the guests, to remain inclined to touch them, to get an autograph or to take a picture. Finally, I will address the mayor of Świebodzin, Mr. Dark Bekish, and the city council, thank you for funding this trip. The Scouts of Stena and the Candles represented your city with dignity. I would like to thank the scouting community of Warsaw who hosted two more days of Scouts from Stena and organized an expedition to the Warsaw Uprising Museum, the Polish Army Museum and a visit to the National Stadium. And finally to the parents of the Boy Scouts. Your boys set an example of both valiant attitudes and a large personal culture, modesty, and the desire to learn as much as possible. One thing they've caused me is some trouble. They kept asking how it was done to become an MEP because they wanted it to be. They didn't take one into account - that I was a debutante and yet I didn't enjoy my new role. I don't want to give it up prematurely, but quietly, I didn't tell them everything. Then I'm sure they'll have to come back. Greetings, thank you, good night. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u717	Thank you very much, sir. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u718	Declaration by the Members on the 93rd anniversary of Jerzy Miatkowski's birth. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 8 June, the 93rd anniversary of the birth of Jerzy Miatkowski, alias Zawad, lieutenant, soldier of the Home Army, member of the Association of Freedom and Independence, one of the enchanted soldiers. Jerzy Miatkowski was born in 1923. He was the son of Joseph and Janina from the House of Garbage. He graduated from the fourth grade of junior high school. At the age of 20, he joined the Home Army. During the Warsaw Uprising as a member of the Lt. Tadeusz was involved in battles in the Śródmieście region, which resulted in Stalag 344 Lamsdorf in the German POW camp in Łambinowice. He was later evacuated over the Rhine, where the entire transport was liberated by the U.S. military. This allowed him to return to Poland in December 1945. At the beginning of the new year Miatkowski, adopting the pseudonym Zawada, was sent to the branch of Jan Szacillow, a pseudonym Renek, belonging to the branch of Jerome After a few months, the latter appointed him his aide. Miatkowski has been with him ever since. In the spring of 1947 at the time of the so-called. The amnesty for the independence underground of Zawada appeared, was vacationed and moved to Warsaw with his parents. However, despite all propaganda, amnesty was not an act of goodwill, but a way to eliminate organized resistance against government opponents. When it was stopped, surveys with names, aliases, and branch information were immediately examined, and the arrests of those who were exposed were followed. They were accused of continuing their anti-state activities. For this reason Miatkowski and a group of soldiers of Major Dekutowski tried to escape to the West. Unfortunately, treason and insidiously organized by the UB of Katowice the provocation led to the arrest in Nysa. Zawada, who was arrested on 15 or 16 September 1947, was sent to the central prison of the MBP in Mokotów in Warsaw. A year later, Miatkowski was sentenced to death in November. The judges of the Military District Court in Warsaw gave their judgment: Major Józef Badecki, Captain Józef Kantecki and Kpr. Richard Wasilewski. The Supreme Military Court upheld the sentence, and President Bierut did not apply the law of grace. On 7 March 1949, Zavada was executed. His fate was shared by comrades Jeronim Dekutowski, Roman Groński, Stanisław Łukasik, Tadeusz Pelak, Edmund Tudruj and Arkadiusz Wasilewski. The lieutenant's body was buried secretly by public security. They were only found in 2012. Links of the Military Cemetery in Warsaw Powązki. The identification of the corpse was carried out within the framework of the project of searching for burial sites and identifying victims of totalitarianisms. Zawada was rehabilitated by the Military Court in Warsaw in the first half of the 1990s. On 15 November 2007, on the 59th anniversary of the death sentence of 7 soldiers cursed by the order of the President of the Republic of Poland Lech Kaczyński, Jerzy Miatkowski was awarded for outstanding merits for independence of the Republic of Poland with the Officer's Cross of the Order of the Rebirth of Poland. Hello and praise the heroes! Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u719	Request to restore the image of the national emblem of August 1919 Dear Messengers, Gentlemen! High Izbo! In 2016 we celebrate the 1050th anniversary of the Polish state. On this occasion thousands of Poles, with the highest nobles of the Church and representatives of the Polish state, took part in the April jubilee celebrations. The 1050th anniversary of our homeland is an excellent, unique opportunity to restore the image of the state emblem of 1919. Let's remind you, On 1 August 1919, the Legislative Sejm adopted the image of the emblem in such a way as to refer to the beginnings of the Polish statehood and, what is very important, to the times of our power and glory, especially the times of the Jagiellonian dynasty. The emblem was a white eagle on a red background symbolizing the royal power that united the nation. On the head of the eagle there was a crown crown crowned with a cross, which directly refers to the character of the beginnings of our statehood, entering the circle of Latin culture. The crown with eight sticks descending centrally into the center formed together with the cross a closed whole, which in its symbolism was a sign of our national sovereignty and emphasized the independence of the state. I will mention that military and naval eagles were modelled on the motives of the emblem's image, and the mint was minting coins. This beautiful, proud eagle with a crown and a cross was visible everywhere: on documents, seals, signs of institutions and offices of various levels - central and local authorities. The Polish eagle from 1919 remained only until 13 December 1927. He was replaced by others. Differences: from the crown the cross was removed, two five-pointed stars were added expressing in symbolism the subordinateness of other interests, and the crown was opened, which is a sign of a non-sovereign state, dependent on foreign influence. Dear Messengers, Dear Members, As representatives of the Polish people Let us restore national pride and symbols of sovereignty to Poles and Poland. May the Eagle of 1919 convey to the world the desire of Poles to establish a state whose real shape will be consistent with its symbolism.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-09-sejm-20-2.u720	I hereby order the meeting to be adjourned until 3 p.m. 11. Thank you kindly to the most persistent Members and to the ladies and gentlemen of the Seym Service. Good night. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 2 min 07]]
