ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u1	I'm opening a sitting. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to call on the secretaries of today's deliberations Catherine Osos, Wojciech King, Piotr Olszówka and Sylvester Tulayev. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Piotr Olszówka and Sylwester Tułayev will be members in the first part of the session. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Members Sylvester Tulaev and Wojciech Król. I consider the minutes of the 24th session of the Sejm to be adopted in the absence of objections. High Seym! The Health Commission has submitted a report on the government draft law amending the Food Safety and Nutrition Act. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: amending the Act on the National School of Public Administration and certain other laws; amending the Law on the Income of Local Government Units. The reports shall be printed in 824 and 825 respectively. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. The Commission for Energy and Treasury submitted a report on the government draft law amending the law on the operation of hard coal mining and certain other laws. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. After consulting the Seniors Convention, I decided to delete from the agenda the current meeting of the point: Information for the Sejm and Senate of the Republic of Poland on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period January-June 2016 (the Netherlands Presidency of the Council of the European Union), print No 712, together with the position of the Commission for European Union Affairs, print No 714. I would like to remind you that the Modern Posel Club has requested that the agenda be supplemented by a point containing information from the Minister of Health on ensuring that the conditions for the termination of pregnancy laid down in Article are fulfilled by the State. 4a the Law of 7 January 1993 on family planning, protection of the human foetus and conditions for the admissibility of abortion. In this regard, Mr Bartosz Arłukowicz, the Civic Platform Club, is making a formal request.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of the article. 184 I ask for a break and a call of the Senior Convention and for the Sejm to bring the government's information on an extremely important matter. On 16 August, the Chief Pharmaceutical Inspector shall inform the Minister of Health of irregularities with regard to Atram and of possible substitution of medicines. From 16 August to 9 September, the Minister for Health has not acted on this matter. For 3 weeks he does not inform Poles about the potential health and life threat. We want the Prime Minister to inform the High House and all Poles, as is the case, that the Minister of Health accepts information that there is a threat to the life and health of Poles through possible substitution of medicines, and that there is only public presence when the media raises this issue. Prime Minister! I know there are things important and more important. I know a good change has a purpose. In all this, however, you must not forget the safety of Poles. It was three weeks' notice. We request full information from the government on this matter. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u3	Thank you very much. But this, of course, is a formal conclusion not in this case, which I read about, but in another one. Is Mrs Cornelia Wróblewska reporting on a matter I read about or another? Mrs Cornelia Wróblewska, the Modern Club, also makes a formal request. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Pursuant to the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, Article. Paragraph 184. 3 point 8, I would like to make a formal request for a change in the way the discussion is conducted. This concerns information from the Minister of Health on the State's assurance that the conditions for the termination of pregnancy laid down in the Act are fulfilled. This information was supposed to go to the committee, but no one called a committee meeting about it, unfortunately. The modern wants a debate to take place before the vote on the request for information, which will enable us to decide on the vote. You can't sweep under the carpet the problems that result from non-compliance with the law. There are women in Poland who cannot exercise the statutory right to terminate pregnancy in specific situations, in a situation of rape, the risk of the life of a pregnant woman or the suspicion of a severe and irreversible impairment of the foetus or an incurable illness threatening his life. [[Go on, girl!]] That's what Art talks about. 4a Act on family planning, protection of the human foetus and conditions for abortion of 7 January 1993. We are only concerned with information preceded by a debate, because there are women in Poland who are treated unevenly because they live in different regions of Poland and have a different material situation. The State does not guarantee them the rights they have. This is the case, among others. a place in Podkarpacie. We would like to ask you to allow the debate before voting on this information. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[It's a lie.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u5	Madame, you are asking for a change in the way the discussion is conducted. [[Ha, ha, ha!]] We are not yet in the middle of a discussion, so that I cannot accept your proposal as a formal proposal. On the other hand, I will remind you that this is indeed a problem, ladies and gentlemen, because I sent a letter to the Health Committee on 19 May this year, which is four months ago, to get the committee to deal with this issue. Today is the last day on which, not the committee, the Sejm, because the committee may... when the Sejm must consider it. And that is why today, during the vote, the Sejm has to decide whether or not to allow it. On the other hand, the committee organises its work in accordance with the will of the chairman, the bureau of the committee and, of course, the members of the committee. Still with a formal application by Adam Szłapka, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I submit a formal request to supplement the agenda of this meeting with information from the Minister of the Interior of Mr Mariusz Błaszczak on the incident that took place in Warsaw last week - the beating of Prof. Kochanowski. This is a very serious matter. Minister Mariusz Błaszczak should take a stand on this matter. The Minister is kind to go to London and instruct the British Government about the beating of Poles, but in fundamental matters - about hatred in Poland - he does not take a stand. [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] Please complete the agenda for this matter. [[Applause]] [[Scandal! The Pole was killed.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u7	Mr President, this is not... I cannot accept this proposal as a formal application. From a regular point of view, ladies and gentlemen, each club has the right to submit its proposals on the agenda by no later than 6 p.m. The 21st day before the beginning of the session, and we are already out of time today. 21. What time is it? [[Joy in the Chamber]] Incidentally, I don't wear a watch, sir, but I'm sure it's after hours. 21. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] I'm so sorry, sir. On the other hand, to Mr Arłukowicz: Mr President, I inform the High House that the case was discussed yesterday at the Convention of Seniors and at the Sejm Bureau and I have addressed this request to the Health Committee. I would ask you not to wait another four months, but immediately... [[Applause]] If the committee proposes to consider the matter, I would be very happy to report it to the next session of the Sejm. [[There's a few words.]] But you don't have to... [[That's not a correction. I'd like to inform the marshal.]] You're gonna answer me...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u8	Mr. Marshal! I'm sure the Health Committee on drug substitution won't delay anything. This formal proposal concerned the High Chamber and the whole of Poland to learn about why the Minister did not inform Poles about the threat of life and health for 3 weeks. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u9	Thank you very much. I hope that the Health Committee, after presenting the information after discussing this, will make an appropriate proposal to the High House, and we will then address it. [[Member of Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Minister of Health!]] In view of the time-limit we have been talking about in this case and referred to in Article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the request for supplementing the agenda with a point including information from the Minister for Health on ensuring that the conditions for the termination of pregnancy laid down in Article are fulfilled by the State. 4a of the Act of 7 January 1993 on family planning, protection of the human foetus and the conditions for the admissibility of abortion, he will raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. 165 votes against - 247, 6 Members abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm should listen to 10 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and 5 minutes' statements on behalf of the circle in discussions on the report on the activities of the Supreme Audit Chamber in 2015. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in discussions on the other items on the agenda. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to inform you that the Senior Convention has adopted a proposal from the Sejm Bureau to consider at this meeting the current information on agriculture and rural areas in the Responsible Development Strategy, which was requested by the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. The agenda items of this meeting will be dealt with in accordance with the order adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm and the Seniors' Convention. Information on this matter, as well as the list of laws that the Senate adopted without amendments, are available in the Sejm Information System. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u10	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - to the Secret Service, at 5 p.m. 9.15, - Poselska etiquette - hour. 9.30 a.m., - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 10, - to State Control, together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy, at 3 p.m. 10.30, - Extraordinary deregulation - hour. 11, - Legal notice - hour. 11, - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 12, - Health-- hour. 12, - National and Ethnic Minorities - hour. 13.30, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 14, - Constitutional responsibility - h.m. 14, - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 2.30 p.m., - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 15, - Public Finance - hour. 15, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 15, - Senior policy - h.m. 3.30 p.m., - to Energy and Treasury - hour. 16, - Education, Science and Youth - hour 16, - Infrastructure - hour 16, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 16, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 16, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 4:30 p.m., - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 4:30 p.m., - National Defense at 5 p.m. 17, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 5:30 p.m., - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 18, - Foreign Affairs - hour 18, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 19, - Public Finance - hour. 19. In addition, I would like to inform you that the following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: Medical marijuana - hour 10, - Parliamentary Mining and Energy Team - hour 10, - The Members' Team for the New Constitution - at 5 p.m. 13, - Parliamentary Group for: regulation of the pharmaceutical market - h. 15, - Parliamentary Group for: Polish-Japanese Economic Cooperation - h.m. 16, - Joint Parliamentary Group meeting. The Health Protection Organisation and the Parliamentary Group for Patients' rights - hour 16, - Parliamentary Group for: Psoriasis - hour 18. Thank you. [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Joachim Brudziński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u11	High Seym, I'm declaring a three-minute break. Ladies and gentlemen of the Members who are going to committee meetings, I ask you to leave the room. I'll resume the session in three minutes. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 9 min. 19 hrs. 9 min 24]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the government draft law amending the Act on the National School of Public Administration and some other laws (prints Nos 767 and 824). I ask Mrs Józef Hrynkiewicz to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I present a report to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the review of the draft law amending the Act on the National School of Public Administration and some other laws, the printing of Sejm VIII of the term No. 767 and 824. The Committee on Administration and Home Affairs at its meeting on 5 September... [[Game in the O.R.]] Could I ask the Member to speak quietly? I'm so sorry. It bothers me. ...at its meeting on 5 September 2016 it considered a government bill amending the Act on the National School of Public Administration and some other laws. The Commission discussed the content of the law and introduced two amendments to the draft law. The discussion on the law concerned the essence of the law, which constitutes the giving of the National School of Public Administration the name of the President of the Republic of Poland prof. Lech Kaczyński. Two opposing positions were outlined in the discussion. First position: some members of the committee stressed and justified the purpose of giving the national school the name of President Lech Kaczyński as a person whose entire way of life and work was a model of service to the nation and homeland. The second group of Members questioned the name of the school in general and the name of the school. Professor Lech Kaczyński. Members from the first group stressed the relevance of choosing a school patron because of the great involvement of the sleepers. President Lech Kaczyński in the service of regaining Poland's freedom and independence, for building democratic social order, restoring the rule of law and respect for human rights in our homeland, as well as his great merits in union work in the "Solidarity," in the local government, in the state - in various positions. The importance and importance of his scientific work closely and closely related to the service of the state and society, with great work to defend the rights and dignity of those citizens who were victims, in particular, have been highlighted. Such a character must have been the ministry of the sleeper. Professor Lech Kaczyński, when he defended the disadvantaged workers against oppression and violation of their workers' and civil rights. Such tasks include his great work on drawing up and implementing the Social Rent Act. Today, it is worth recalling that it is on the basis of the analytical work and research by Professor Lech Kaczyński that the Sejm has drawn up and adopted a social pension law which, in difficult times, has solved and continues to solve the problem of worthy material assistance for the most vulnerable in our society, which, due to the difficult situation and often and tragic circumstances in their lives, have received legal assistance from the state under this law. The service of the nation and the country, the great commitment to the common good, the action strongly based on the highest values, always clearly defined and important objectives, honest, wise, reliable, prudent, and at the same time courageous and open approach to all matters which he took in all positions on which the Republic called him, and which with the highest dignity and high professionality in his life he was asleep. Prof. Lech Kaczyński - his posture was and will be a model of a citizen and a public official for graduates and students currently and in the future at the National School of Public Administration of Officials. It should be emphasized that sleep. Prof. Lech Kaczyński has always been interested in the National School of Public Administration, he has attached great importance to its activities, because he has always considered that for the prosperity of the Republic of Poland, for the development and international position of an independent state, highly qualified, professional, impartial and engaged in the service of his own state and the good of common officials are needed. The KSAP, with its mission, saw it as an important institution to train high officials. He was personally interested in the work of the school, the education program, the students and the fate of the graduates. He was willing to hire graduates in all the institutions he was running. He visited the school, was a guest of the school many times, met with its lecturers and listeners, held important debates with them about the state and the role of public administration. When there was a difficult situation in the case of graduates, he hired them in the Supreme Auditorium, which he was in charge of at the time. Many graduates of the National School of Public Administration cooperating in the past with the deceased. Lechem Kaczyński is today in a position that is important to Poland, working hard and caring for the well-being of our country and its citizens everywhere, in all the positions that they have been entrusted with. Many graduates of the National School of Public Administration are deceased. Lech Kaczyński is well-known, many of whom have had the opportunity to know, sleep. Lech Kaczyński. In their memory, he remained a model of a man and a citizen who worked, knew, committed, and in his entire life during a difficult time of systemic change served his country well wherever he was entrusted with important service. As rapporteur for the committee, I must point out that some members of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs questioned the proposed amendment to the law, including the change in the name of the school by giving its name to President Lech Kaczyński. Some Members stressed that they were asleep. President Lech Kaczyński was a politician and that he was a politician of one option. That's right, Lech Kaczyński was a politician of one option. President Lech Kaczyński was a politician of an option for which politics was always a concern for the common good. [[Applause]] And it is this unique principle, especially today, which has always been followed in every action and in all service of the dead. President Lech Kaczyński, namely the principle that politics is a deep concern for the common good, especially today it is not only worthy of reminder, but it is necessary that it be constantly reminded, and all the more applied, especially to those who have found themselves, perhaps often by chance, in politics and politicians, even forget what politics should be and what principles should be governed by politics. The figure and the achievements of sleep. Professor Lech Kaczyński is a symbol, also in politics, of a service for which care for the common good has always been the most important. [[Applause]] Therefore, by proposing that in 2016 on the 25th anniversary of the establishment of the school, the National School of Public Administration should be given the name of the deceased with the consent of the parliament. Prof. Lech Kaczyński, President of the Republic of Poland, we remind young generations that politics can, in fact, be an honest, righteous and reliable service to the state and the nation. When proposing to give the National School of Public Administration the name of the President of the Republic of Poland Lech Kaczyński, we hope that the name of the patron will be a model of service for graduates and listeners of the national school, it will remind them of the way of life of the patron of the school and his accomplishments in the service, in which he applied the unbreakable principle of constant concern for the common good, for the good of the Republic, for the welfare of every citizen, for the welfare of every, also for the weakest citizen. For graduates of the national school, the civil service they have undertaken, and in the future they will also take up it, should be a deep concern for the common good. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! During the debates on the draft law, in print No 767, the Commission introduced two amendments to the draft, which concern the wording of the slightly modified name of the school's patron and the introduction of such an amendment, so that the new, revised name of the school refers to the graduates present, future and previous years. It is therefore about maintaining the continuity of the institution despite a slight change in its name. Therefore, on behalf of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, I am submitting a report to the High House and ask that the act be adopted as proposed in print No 824. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u13	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice of Mr Kurzepa. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u14	Honourable Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I took part in the honour of presenting the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on this matter, namely giving the National School of Public Administration the name of the President of the Republic of Lech Kaczyński. Thanking the rapporteur for presenting the essential facts of President Kaczyński's life and political biography, which seems indisputable, and the means of working on this law in committee, I will submit to the High House a handful of arguments which justify full acceptance by the Parliamentary Club of the Law and Justice of this proposal. When we examine the scientific and social and political achievements of President Lech Kaczyński, we see the many desirable features of the highest sample, which marked him as both a mature and met scientific worker and a prudent and consistitarian policy. Professor Lech Kaczyński's achievements are evidenced by numerous publications in the main course of his intellectual passion, that is, legal sciences, but also those which describe, interpret and analyse the normative-social-political order of contemporary times. Among his many capital texts in the context of our debate are the reflections given at the 20th anniversary of the National School of Public Administration, issued by the III Promotion of this University, entitled: State of law. It is included there, among others. That's a thought, a quote from p. 3, verses 35 and 40: No one can stand above the law. If the applicable legal standards are not unambiguous and stable, if they open a field for different interpretations, they give power to people who interpret them. It is therefore likely that the existing law will be used to protect the interests of the various groups, to protect the incompatible with the general good. This concern for the rule of law was disseminated and respected both as an advisor and later as the chairman of the trade union of.Solidarity, as well as as as President of the Supreme Chamber of Control, Minister of Justice and Prosecutor General, President of M.S. Warsaw or finally the President of the Brightest Republic. In a word, it should be recognised that the characteristics that characterize the coherence and transparency of the pro-state attitude of the candidate for the school's patronage include its professionalism, high intellectual and instrumental competences and objectivity of evaluations. No wonder, then, that at every step of his life, he was surrounded by the young people he supported, eagerly inviting him to cooperate, to whom he wisely entrusted responsibility, which he encouraged development. What did they see in him then? What was he to them then? This figure is also characterized by high personality qualities. In the case of our debate, the indications require consistency and transparency in personal and public life and respect for the same principles, and this is the advantage, faithfulness of ideas, faithfulness to another man, hot and beautiful love towards the country and, after all, we know it perfectly well, love towards your spouse, zealous concern for the welfare of the community, the nation and the community of your family. They have different ranges, while the intensity of these features is almost the same. We could say, a gentleman of the old age. There are no such politicians today. In these words we read not only respect for such a pattern, but also the desire not to let it go into oblivion. So if anyone wants to accuse us of idolatry, I will reject it with the word Design. If we want the KSAP graduates freed from the current political fever, to find a worthy model for their statesman, then sleep. President Lech Kaczyński is. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I ask the High House to support this bill, as we do. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u15	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Rafał Grupiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u16	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Giving a school of public administration, the National School of Public Administration of any politician can always raise some doubts because this school was created primarily with a view to the apoliticality of training staff for the Polish state, transpartisanity, lack of bias and serving only the good of the state and the Polish reason for the state. However, such an idea came up on the part of the Law and Justice. The figure of sleep was summoned. President Lech Kaczyński, he's being proposed as a patron. When we start to look at the creators of the National School of Public Administration, people deserved for its history and level, for its position in building the Polish state administration, then they must be born in the matter of such a patron of considerable doubts. First of all, because Lech Kaczyński is a representative of the political environment, which twice ruined the civil service in Poland. Firstly, in 2006, building a state resource and breaking up a whole mountain of civil service, built among others. from the ranks of KSAP graduates, secondly, in this term of office by simply removing all the wise principles that were derived from the way KSAP graduates were trained, namely by eliminating competitions, the requirements of experience in terms of public administration and even foreign language skills, and in February by throwing out more than 1600 civil servants, including many KSAP graduates, from work under the new law. Therefore, proposing a policy, which is a symbol of this environment and has, in other words, huge merits for the Republic of Poland, i.e. sleep. Lech Kaczyński, we find it inappropriate. The creator of the National School of Public Administration, the politician who signed the founding act of this school, who thought of it and who took care of its development together with the first head of this school, Professor Maria Gintowt-Jankowicz, was Tadeusz Mazowiecki. We will therefore propose an amendment which will change the proposal of the patron for the National School of Public Administration to form Tadeusz Mazowiecki. [['Cause you guys want to...]] If we look at the merits of Tadeusz Mazowiecki, the head of Lech Walesa's advisors and the strike committee in August 1980, when we look at his merits as regards the democratic opposition, for example, when he co-founded the Society for Scientific Course, and thus the forge of independent thinking also about the Polish state, when we look at his wise decision to create a public administration school, which Jan Nowak-Jeziorański called the new contemporary Knight School, then you will certainly appreciate that the proposal which refers to Prime Minister Tadeusz Mazowiecki, when it comes to patronising the school and its ideas, its objectives, is much more accurate. Such a proposal should be considered by you as a parliamentary majority in the first place, before you propose all important commemorations of President Lech Kaczyński from Gazoport to KSAP. Remember, you hate civil service, you break it up every time you come to power, and at the same time you want the politician of your camp to be the patron of a school that has been building civil servants for a quarter of a century. I find this inappropriate, inappropriate and a pity of the name Lech Kaczyński for such an idea, with which you do not really agree, and which Lech Kaczyński might support today and probably protest against your ideas today, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which you realized at the end of February this year. Thank you very much. I am making an amendment to this matter. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u17	Thank you. The Minister - a member of the Council of Ministers, Ms Beata Kempa, asked for the floor at this point. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u18	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I took the liberty of asking for the floor following the speech of the representative of the Civic Platform, because, Mr President, to name the National School of Public Administration, e.g. the name of the sleeper. Mr. Tadeusz Mazowiecki, you were 8 years old. For eight years, you have also been able to decide this issue, which is very important and fundamental. And we can argue who has done more for the country, we can argue who has done more for the young people, we can calculate all the merits, but the truth is one thing, sir, we must always tell the truth. It was just a moment ago that the words of the speaker weren't true. I would like to say that at the moment when you brought up the reforms, both those from 2006, 2005 and 2007 as well as the present, you simply said the wrong thing. Well, when a staff resource was set up, then it was the graduates of the National School of Public Administration - as those who were also involved in these reforms today - who entered the staff resource. So it's not like you've been polite to say that we've left some complete ruin in this matter. Even then, these graduates, as a very substantive and professional substance in the official staff, were appreciated in this way. That's the first line. And the second point -- it's just to refresh memory, because especially here, this speaker should have real words -- it's a reform, a very small reform, because the big ones are probably still ahead of us, but a change to the Civil Service Act... You were kind to say we threw out ok. 1,600 people. 1600 is the number of higher posts, Mr. Some church called. You just don't know which one. [[You have information from the afterlife.]] This is 1600 of all posts, listed at this moment about 230, 160 did not get the offer, and this is the fundamental difference compared to what you say. Those who have been offered work today. So it's not like you're yelling at the Venice Commission today, to all the other bodies, that such terrible things are happening. Look in the statistics and then just base your opinion on it. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I was sure that, as in a good atmosphere, the first reading of this law in committee, where of course there were various arguments, but they were at a very high level, both substantive and personal culture, I also think that the memory of the dead. Lech Kaczyński, who died on duty, died when he was traveling with the delegation to celebrate the heroes, the victims of the communist regime... Today, when we recall all these merits, especially for the public administration - because he was not only a politician, until a certain point, although politics is always when his professional life is linked to this policy. It is not always necessary to understand politics in this pejorative sense of the word. Perhaps this is the only way you see it. But above all, Professor Lech Kaczyński was a very good President of the Supreme Chamber of Control, and he was also - mainly in his life and career - President of the city of Warsaw, Minister of Justice and Prosecutor General. We referred to these moments in his work at the committee meeting, which indicated that he had the highest standards, above all when it comes to caring for official staff, and as a minister of justice - for judges and prosecutors, because, as we know, he was and is, in my opinion, not the best opinion. In view of the above, Mr Marshal, High Izbo, I hope very much - and of course I will answer all the questions that are raised here, to all possible reservations - I would like this debate to be in as good a mood as this debate in committee. Because this is a serious debate. This is a debate. not only regarding this symbol - it is the main one, it gives direction - but what staff we will have in our country. And we can carry out the best reforms, we can make the best in our view of the law, but they will never be a good law if they are applied primarily by people who, first of all, cannot apply this right, secondly, do not want to apply this right, and thirdly, their preparation and moral backbones do not withstand at least the pace of the reforms that must be carried out in our country today for the benefit of the young generations. That is why I am ready for this, and I ask once again that this discussion be held in this atmosphere and respect for all the elements that this discussion is about. Finally, I would like to say that this draft law was widely consulted, was consulted on the school board. This advice was set up on a very broad basis, it is not just a very political council, chosen by one political option, it was conceived very widely. In this council, in large part remained people from the so-called. The previous broadcast, that's what we say in our nomenclature, so that the school has as broad a formula as possible, so that the different views will go away there. And this advice, set up in this broad formula, adopted unanimously the proposal of a government bill. Such a position was also adopted by the Civil Service Council, only that this advice, while also respecting the opposition and respecting it, we called it, the Prime Minister called in a very broad formula, also extended it to include members of the opposition. Unfortunately, there was no opposition during this discussion. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u19	Thank you very much, Minister. I understand that Mr Grupiński has been corrected, right? [[Yes, sir.]] Here you go, one minute to corrigendum.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u20	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, I don't want to refer to how many people you fire, because you may have fired them a little less, and you've degraded more, but I want to draw the Minister's attention to one thing. We didn't have eight years to propose Tadeusz Mazowiecki as patron of the National School of Public Administration. Tadeusz Mazowiecki, a sacred memory, died in October 2013, less than three years ago. [[Voice from the room: But you could have given patronage.]] And please do not mix such things into your political rhetoric, just think for a moment what the Minister says. Thank you very much. [[I'd like to make a point.]] [[Head of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Beat Kemp: Name has been invoked.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u21	High Izbo! Before I ask another Member to speak, I would like to ask very cordially, this is my request as the marshal in charge of these proceedings, that we really hold this discussion in the atmosphere mentioned here by Minister Beata Kempa. Both sleep. President Lech Kaczyński, as well as - I am also deeply convinced - Prime Minister Tadeusz Mazowiecki... [[Voice from the hall: Holy memory.]] ...they don't deserve us to have unnecessary push-ups during this discussion. Please take the floor on behalf of the Kukiz Poselski Club15 by Elżbieta Borowska. You're welcome, my fellow Member. [[Mr. Marshal, Prime Minister Mazowiecki is a sacred memory too.]] Of course I do, of course. In that case, please take the floor on behalf of Mr Zbigniew Gryglas' Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u22	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I am pleased to present the position of the Modern Club in relation to the Act amending the Act on the National School of Public Administration. Ladies and gentlemen! I am a graduate of the National School of Public Administration, a graduate of one of the first promotions, exactly II Promotion Pro Publico Bono. I must tell you that to this day I remember these elevated moments when we entered the school walls more than 20 years ago. My colleagues and I felt this great mission ahead of us. Then we responded to the call, to the appeal that appeared in the press. This appeal was: Do you want to serve Poland, want to change Poland? Step into the walls of the school. We all responded to this appeal. We were very different then, I must tell you, as we differ in this Chamber. Each of us had different experience, different baggage of experience, and finally different political views. But what was common to all of us? The fact that we wanted to become involved in change, we wanted to serve the Republic. The National School of Public Administration was established by the decision of the first non-communist prime minister in 1990 and I will remind you that it was the first such institution in the countries of Central and Eastern Europe. In this respect, we were indeed the first to act as a country. This national school has benefited from the experience of the 20th interwar period, and in particular the School of Social Sciences and Commerce, which has existed since 1915. There was this college, not many of us. She remembers that, and later she was even located in the building of the National School of Public Administration. We have also benefited from the best foreign experience. We have benefited from German, British and French experiences. The school was modelled mostly on the elite French École Nationale d'Administration. My previous speakers have said a lot about the merits of the sleep. President Lech Kaczyński in many fields - as Head of the Supreme Audit Chamber, Minister of Justice, President of Warsaw and President of the country. It is worth emphasising its important support in the process of hiring first graduates. We remember that. However, I am firmly convinced that the school should not have its patron. There are at least three reasons for that. The first is that at the time the school was founded, there were very many fathers of this idea - the first non-communist prime minister, but also others. It is very difficult to identify the person who has the greatest credit for the idea of creating KSAP. The second reason, which is extremely important, is the very role and responsibilities of this institution. Let me remind you that KSAP had and is to educate apolitical government officials. Art. 153 of the Constitution states that civil service acts to ensure the professional, fair, impartial and - as should be stressed - politically neutral performance of the State's tasks. However, the President is a politician, but he was a politician. [[Oh, Jesus!]] Finally, the last argument, the physical nature. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister said that the Platform had eight years to choose a patron's school. It's a good thing she didn't. You're 4 years old, maybe 8 years old, maybe even more. I ask you not to do this either, because certain foundations of the state should be designed not for 2 years, not for 4 years, not even for 8 years. They should be designed for decades, forever, for Poland to be stable, so that no one changes its foundations so that we can exist on the map of Europe, just as we have always existed for decades. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u23	There's still eight seconds left for the Modern Club. I do not know if Mr Meysztowicz... [[I'll be brief.]] You're welcome, sir. You can do it. I believe you deeply.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u24	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I will no longer quote my speech, just to say that the opposition, which is allowed to do so - members [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Civil Service Council was present at the Council meeting. Unfortunately, this proposal was not dealt with before the formal conclusion of the sitting. I put my position on the committee, and it's critical too. I believe that this school should not bear the name of any of our great Poles, it should retain its status and be an apolitical school, a forge of staff and civil service. Thank you very much. [[The best monument is this school...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u25	Thank you. Please speak on behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party by Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u26	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Izbo! Today we are discussing the report of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the amendment of the Act on the National School of Public Administration and some other laws. The drafters of the bill for the overriding purpose of its amendment accepted the name of this school as the great statesman, President of the Republic of Lech Kaczyński - I quote for the justification of the project. The Polish People's Party never denied, contested or questioned the merits of the President of the Republic of Lech Kaczyński. In the past, he and President Lech Kaczyński have never had any disputes or political wars. We experienced a great tragedy in which the President of the Republic of Poland, together with other excellent Poles, died on foreign soil. These are undeniable facts that every decent Pole should remember. Over the course of its history, Poland has lost many very outstanding statesmen, people and personalities who contributed to its development, expansion and even regaining independence. We should never forget these facts. But in the name of the so-called. The political correctness of the Polish People's Party must accept any solution proposed by the current parliamentary majority? The Polish People's Party in its founding and parliamentary work seeks to be a rational and not a negative legislator. Before today, I held several meetings in this House, and not necessarily with my constituents or even with the sympathizers of the Polish People's Party. I did not have the slightest impression that any of my interlocutors with disrespect, contempt or disrespect would refer to the person tragically deceased President of the Republic of Lech Kaczyński. On the contrary. But here I must also say, or actually quote the words of many of my interlocutors: Was the President of the Republic of Lech Kaczyński the creator of the National School of Public Administration? Was he a graduate? Then why doesn't the school have a name? John Paul II or John Casimir? This is what made it clear to me that, on the one hand, in order not to share great Poles, their merits, better and worse, and on the other hand to maintain the full apolity of the National School of Public Administration, the name of the national school should be left unchanged. By placing great importance to this, and stressing at every step the obligation - which is even bound by compulsion - of the absolute apoliticality of the senior officials, it is important to agree, while respecting this factor, that the public university, whose task is to train staff for Poland and Poles, must take priority in the absolute apoliticity, not in the temporary winds of specific political options, but in the example of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland, guard steadfast apoliticity. Only apoliticity will ensure proper development, protect the current and future staff from political discourses and entanglements, which, as the latest history proves, have ended badly or very badly for many valuable individuals. The Polish People's Party, which has often sounded out of my mouth from this tribune, is not and will not be any total opposition. Therefore, we do not pay attention to the author or authors of draft legislative acts affecting the marshal's staff, but to the overriding interests of the state and the nation, we always analyse the validity and rationality of the provisions - not in terms of specific objectives, on the basis of pleasing to everyone, which we have been accused of many times, but on the basis of the reasonableness of the solutions and objectives which they are intended to serve. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In a situation which I tried to present to the High House in a fairly clear and clear way, the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, not in opposition to the achievements of the great Poles, but also without seeing, not seeing the rationality and the need to adopt the solutions presented in the report of the printing commission 824, will vote against the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u27	Thank you. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Margaret Zwierzan. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u28	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the government draft law amending the Act on the National School of Public Administration. President Lech Kaczyński's candidate for the patronage of the school allows him to honor the rich achievements of the president's life and give a unique rank to the school - a school that contributes to the construction of a modern, well-functioning Polish country. Due to the acceptance of state authorities and university authorities for the school to gain such an outstanding patronage, the Free and Solidarni Circle supports the procedated bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u29	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Jack Protasiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u30	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I agree that the debate is not easy, because we are talking about the patronage or patrons of the school, by nature people already dead today, and in a good Polish tradition it is to speak only well about the dead and not to argue about the dead. However, since an initiative was proposed by Members of Law and Justice to give the National School of Public Administration the name of the deceased. President Lech Kaczyński, we have no choice but to discuss this issue in Parliament as well. I have listened attentively to the rapporteur's report, which referred to the long, reliable way of life of the late President, his achievements both as a politician and as a high official in the Third Republic, and I have no doubt that all the words that have been said were true words. However, I must honestly say that I did not find many arguments there in favour of giving the National School of Public Administration the name of Professor Lech Kaczyński. In my argument, perhaps Mrs Kurzepa or Mr Kurzapa, I do not remember now, it was said that this act would result in the fact that the memory of Mr Lech Kaczyński will not be lost. He won't go missing, even if KSAP doesn't bear the name of President Lech Kaczyński. His place in history is forever assured - a place very worthy, it is undoubtedly - and what much to say here, today President Lech Kaczyński or his name is respected and honored. Quite recently, the gasport in Świnoujście was baptized after President Kaczyński, there are already many streets, alleys, roundabouts or places in the public sphere, which bear the name of President Kaczyński, and there are already monuments of President Lech Kaczyński, and there will be more, as the President of Law and Justice announces. Therefore, I think that there is no concern that the lack of his name in the name of the National School of Public Administration will harm the cultivation of his memory and the political and life achievements of this outstanding Pole. I therefore believe that this initiative is not particularly hit. And I would like to tell you that I have spoken to a group of Members who, like me, believe that if on this 25th anniversary of existence, the appointment of the KSAP to name this university, for example. The name of the minister in the government of President Kaczyński, the head of his law firm Mr Władysław Stasiak, could be considered. Why? Well, first of all, it fits the context much more. He was a graduate of the First Promotion of the National School of Public Administration, he was also an active, prominent official and politician in the Third Republic, standing basically throughout his life with President Kaczyński, either as Director at NIK, or as Vice President of Warsaw, or as Minister in the Government of PiS or Coalition of PiS, LPR and Self-Defense, or later as Head of BBN, National Security Bureau, Secretary of the National Security Council, and finally Head of the President's Office. And, you might say, he stood by you until the end. Together with the President, with 95 other prominent, significant Poles, he died in the Smolensk catastrophe. I personally knew Vlad Stasiak, if I may say so. We studied together at one university, although in other departments, because he was a history student, but we were in one organization called the Independent Student Association, together with this, you can say, we conspired in those times against the commune, together we organized a strike, Władek was a vice-president, deputy commander of the strike guard in 1988, so I know that he was a man of extraordinary honesty, humility, immense love for his homeland, already presented at the time and at the same time such true courage. So I'd be careful... As I say, 15 Members have actually already signed the amendment on giving the National School of Public Administration the name of the Minister Władysław Stasiak, because it is his memory that needs to be cared for much more than the memory of President Kaczyński, with all the difference of position and merit that both have for the Third Republic. However, after the initiative of the Civic Platform club to name this school Tadeusz Mazowiecki, I think we will withdraw this amendment... [[That needs to be reported.]] ...and probably in the vote - I am talking about myself, I do not know how the other signatories - we will support the citizens' platform's proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u31	Thank you. 13 ladies and gentlemen joined the questions. If there are no more volunteers, I'll close the list. Ms Iwona Michalek will ask you as the first question. Question time - one and a half minutes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u32	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! To name Lech Kaczyński National School of Public Administration is to give honor to an outstanding Pole. We heard various voices of opposition here earlier today in this Chamber. I have a question for the applicant: Are the accusations made by the opposition that the President, coming from a certain political formation, should not have a chance to patronize such a prominent school? He's an outstanding Pole. Does the party card really disqualify any candidate because it's not even about the person we're talking about today when it comes to the patronage of some type of institution, different institutions? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u33	Thank you, Member. I would ask Mrs Lida Burzyńska to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u34	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The President is undoubtedly a modeling figure in the context of the National School of Public Administration mission. The mission of the National School of Public Administration is to build attitudes, to train the competences of civil servants towards the Polish state. Can it therefore be considered that one or the other is consistent or divergent? My question is: Are the characteristics of the candidate and the profile of the graduate of the National School of Public Administration the tangents or do they, ladies and gentlemen, schizoidally disperse? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u35	Thank you, Member. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Joanna Borowiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u36	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The name of the patron is an honor for the university, but also an obligation. Are the personality traits of the President, Prof. Lech Kaczyński, the stability of the human attitude, the concern for another man, the beautiful attitude of marriage, the example of a caring husband, father, grandfather in the context of a conversation about a personal pattern desirable? Is it right in politics not to see these advantages? With this question I am addressing the opposition. Should the coherence of human attitudes and the social role of politics, this common inseparable denominator: honesty, justice, concern for the common good be a model in the training of competent officials devoted to their homeland? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u37	Thank you, Member. And please take the floor of Mr John Kilian.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u38	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am a Member from Pomerania, more specifically from Starogard Gdański, who visited President Lech Kaczyński in 2009. Then it was in the last sentence that he said that he would visit our city in this term of office of his presidency if something unpredictable did not happen. Together with the people of Starogard Gdansk, I am grateful for the initiative to name the National School of Public Administration of President Lech Kaczyński. Minister! As the name of the school indicates, it is difficult for school management not to have the ambition of running it so that the primary objective is to change the state. It seems obvious that the management of the school must be a team of people who are even obliged to change the state, a state that has been ruined for many years. The fact that personal changes will take place seems obvious. How deep are these changes gonna be? What will happen to those who do not recognize the need to repair the state? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u39	Thank you. I would like to ask the floor of Maria Margaret Janyska. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u40	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister. I would like to get an answer to the question I asked on the committee, which I did not get an answer to. What country did you take on the name-making procedure? Have other applications been considered? You spoke of a broad consultation, mentioned - from what I could see - only the school board. I would like to ask you whether you have consulted this proposal also with the Association of Graduates of the National School of Public Administration. All the more reason for this question is that the Minister said that good staff depend on the name. So, ladies and gentlemen, let's ask the staff who have already graduated from this school, because they are the actual staff, if they would also like to take part in this project in connection with the proposals made regarding the name. Ladies and gentlemen, here we have heard a broad justification and from the Minister, and from the State of the Law and Justice Club regarding the characteristics, life, personality and marital role of the proposed President Lech Kaczyński. I think that the proposal which was made by the Civic Platform club, namely regarding Prime Minister Tadeusz Mazowiecki, is also such an offer, because it is a man who had absolutely, absolutely important qualities, was a man of great personality and had great merits. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Apart from the fact that he was the initiator of this school, I would also like to remind you that he started the reform of public administration in Poland. He was the creator when it came to establishing a self-government, a basic public administration, and then emancipated civil service. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u41	Thank you, Member. And I would very much like to ask Mrs Anna Cicholska to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u42	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The project of giving the National School of Public Administration the name of the President, Prof. Lech Kaczyński, is a good choice. I have a question for the applicant. Is there a certificate and an example of the transparency of the state's creative attitude and the special concern of President Lech Kaczyński for the common good in his life? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u43	Thank you, Member. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u44	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have dealt with KSAP many times, especially when Professor Gintowt-Jankowicz was the rector of this university. At that time, I was often invited to participate in debates at this university and I am aware of the importance of having a worthy patron. I have a question for the rapporteur. In the course of the committee's work, was particular sensitivity taken into account. Professor Lech Kaczyński on social problems, on the situation, sometimes difficult, ordinary man, often a man of employment - here I am thinking about the experiences of trade unions, for example, about his position towards the machine of the state - this particular sensitivity which allows to properly resolve difficult social problems? I would like to see the officials of the state who have graduated from this university, [[♪ The bell ♪]] they had such sensitivity as an essential feature presented in their activities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u45	Thank you very much, Member. And please take the floor of Krystyna Wróblewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u46	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I'd like to ask if the fact of waking up sleep. President Lech Kaczyński from a specific political environment disqualifies him as a candidate for the patronage of the National School of Public Administration. Did the politics he had, work for the common good, about which St. John Paul II, is it an obstacle? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u47	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Tadeusz Wozniak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u48	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The National School of Public Administration is a unique facility. A high-level administration, training people who are a civilian service, a corps of civil servants. These are people who are supposed to serve their country in a non-political way just in an apolitical way, as we say. The proposal to give the National School of Public Administration the name of the President of the Republic of Poland Lech Kaczyński fits as much as possible into this context. I would like to say that the Civil Service Council gave a positive opinion and unanimously the same project - Mr Meysztowicz said that he could not speak; he could not, because he had left the proceedings, had other, more important issues - the graduates did not mind giving the school a name either. Today, however, the biggest sadness for me is not that the Platform would have applied for rejection at first reading in the committee or today, similarly, whether it would have voted against, I understand, there are political considerations, but when today the Civic Platform uses the memory of Prime Minister Tadeusz Mazowiecki in an absolute way, it is extremely sad to call the Hucpa on the issue of broadcasting. And sad for me is this, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Today I have to defend the memory of the dead. Tadeusz Mazowiecki outside his political camp. [[Voice from the room: Not his.]] It's a shame, Mr. Chairman. It is good that Mr. Protasiewicz withdrew, reflected and withdrew from his idea. Back off, you guys, really, 'cause it's a shame what you guys did. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[And you.]] [[Fall back, you guys.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u49	Thank you. And please take the floor of Mrs Lydia Gądek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u50	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Discussion on the matter of patronage for a highly respected university in Poland focused at the moment actually on discussions about the merits of the sleep. President Lech Kaczyński. The merits of this great Pole are not denied, there is no such person here, but, ladies and gentlemen, it should look a little different. This school should apply for a patron - and this is the inalienable right of every unit - not someone behind it. It's hard for them to give a negative opinion at a time when the proposal came out of advance from the government. That's one thing. Secondly, for me, a kind of paradox is that President Lech Kaczyński was a great advocate of the independence of the judiciary, the Constitutional Tribunal, he was a great advocate of the apolitical public service which you disarmed. At the same time, you are trying to prove to us, to the opposition, to the nation that you want to name this great Pole of the university in order to value this university. She's valued, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And the state is creating a kind of paradox of history. Listen to Lech Kaczyński's message, and don't use his name. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u51	Thank you, Member. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Anna Milczanowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u52	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am listening to this discussion and I am very surprised because you say: the statesman, the great Pole about the sleep. President Professor Lech Kaczyński. This is exactly the case and very well that the National School of Public Administration will be able to have such a patron, because Prof. Lech Kaczyński was an outstanding scientist, a professor of legal sciences, an outstanding expert in labour law, an intellectual, a creator of many public debates on such important topics as our country, our homeland, a man who was very devoted to the idea of the state, and that is the kind of people we want to educate at this university and this university should bear the name of such an outstanding patron. And that's the question. There's so much talk here about apoliticity. We know that such an independent, apolitical man was a dead man. President Lech Kaczyński. Isn't that art? 11 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland defines the principle of political pluralism and guarantees freedom to set up and operate political parties? Why are you giving up on this? How to Look in Our Eyes [[♪ The bell ♪]] Polish society? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u53	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Zbigniew Gryglas.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u54	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! Once again, as a graduate of the National School of Public Administration, I would like to stress with all determination that the school should not have any patronage and, in particular, should not have politics as a patron. I say it with conviction, I say it with understanding the idea of civil service. Civil servants are officials who are in office a little longer than parliamentary terms, not 4, not 8 years, but even more, you are stabilizing. If this is not well understood by all parliamentarians, then I ask you to get acquainted with this project, because it was a major modernisation project in the early 1990s and it is worth that this project continues to stabilise you. Once again I will stress this premise, this argument of the system: after you will be followed by the next, there will be other parliamentary majority who will again want to change the patronage of this school. That wouldn't be good. Please withdraw this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u55	Please take the floor of Mr Bogdan Rzonca.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u56	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It must be admitted that the opposition is having a very difficult day today. You represent such a big, hopeless helplessness in the situation we're discussing. You are not making any arguments, but merely aversion to Lech Kaczyński's person. Ladies and gentlemen, do not commit... [[We're talking about the creator of the school.]] Mr President, please don't disturb me because you made a logical mistake because you are accompanied by the belief that Kaczyński's politician is bad and Mazowiecki's politician is good. [[I didn't say he was angry. I didn't say that.]] This is unbelievable for you. It's just a logical mistake. You all forget, first of all, that the patron saint of every school should be a decent man. [[Wasn't Mazowiecki?]] He should be a decent man first of all. It could be a politician. Why not? Is politics just supposed to stink? How do you build the authority of politicians in this room today, saying over and over again that it can't be a politician? Why would I do that? Can't a good man be a good politician? This is your second logical mistake. Think about it. I'm sure you won't vote against tomorrow that no one will vote against... [[But only from the PiS.]] ...even if it's embarrassing. We're asking you very much... [[Don't budge.]] ...because Lech Kaczyński's person is really a person who deserves [[♪ The bell ♪]] for recognition. And last question, Professor: How will the scientific community, the schools, address your proposal? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u57	Thank you. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Anna Nemś. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u58	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! It's a shame today's discussion. In today's discussion we bid on the qualities of people, outstanding people. They're defending themselves. [[Voice from the Chamber: This is a debate.]] Every one of these people is defending themselves. He doesn't need titles, he doesn't need patronages, everyone defends themselves. And we're dragging this rope from one side to the other. Minister! There have been various proposals already made. This idea isn't fortunate at the time. That's another thing that separates us. The people we talked about here today from this podium should join us, because they are all great Poles. They're gone today, and they're supposed to connect us, and they're dividing us. We're talking about each other, yours, our candidate. They are Poles and worked for us all. Please reconsider whether it is possible to leave it the way it is, not to divide us again. That would be the best solution. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u59	Please take the floor of Mr Piotr Kaleta.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u60	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! This is the formula of questions. This is a discussion, we are going to ask questions, and I would therefore like to ask Mr Grupinski if there is any chance that you will be honest someday. This proposal, which came out today, has nothing to do with what we discussed in the Committee on Home Affairs and Administration, when this project was discussed. After all, there was a plarum raised that the politician should not have been the patron of this school. I don't want to talk about those things that are once again hypocritical... First, you represent the qualities of sleep. President Lech Kaczyński, his virtues, you say you do not deny his prominence, and then there is a denial that a politician should not be the patron of such a university. I would like to strengthen the voice of my previous speaker, who was just saying who the politician is. After all, a politician is a good man, he should be a good man, he should be a patriot, and that's what we're talking about when we mention sleep. Professor Lech Kaczyński. Ladies and gentlemen, let's face it, what you've done now to introduce this concept of sleep. Mr. Tadeusz Mazowiecki, he's just a runaway, he's a snitch, [[♪ The bell ♪]] to give this discussion an unnecessary dimension to political argument. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u61	Thank you. That's where we've exhausted the list of people in the vote. Please address Minister Beata Kempa.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u62	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! After removing all your arguments in this discussion, it is worth mentioning what Aristotle said. Aristotle spoke about politics, that politics is a kind of art of governance of a country whose purpose is the common good. That's what Aristotle said. Maybe it's worth leaning over. This should actually be a valid response to the allegations of politics, to the allegations of potential politicisation of the school, to the allegations of independence of the school. Nowhere more than in the National School of Public Administration, young people, graduates should possess a kind of art, in this case the ability to co-manage, because they are the key people in the draft government, advise, execute, apply the law. That's why it's important to have a patron where they buy this play. Let me put it this way - I'm sorry, I'm not going to mention all the names, I'm trying to group these questions into the problems you've been talking about - about the idea, the key, why the government is the author of this bill. The reason is very simple, you have to be able to read the laws. The National School of Public Administration is subject to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Poland, so says the Act. Therefore, the Prime Minister and the Government of the Republic of Poland have absolute legitimacy for such a bill to stand in the High Chamber. Why in the High House? Therefore, and this is also the answer to the question of the consultation formula, they were different. This isn't just the consultation I was talking about, which is the school board or the Civil Service Council. I would like to say, by the way, that the head of the alumni association was also present at the school board meeting and did not reserve this idea, and that is also my answer to the question. But above all, ladies and gentlemen, how we will look at how she reacted to individual patrons, how individual listeners of each year of this school have reacted since its inception... It is worth mentioning here such practice, good practice, I think that the practice which should remain, also after the day when we adopt the law on the name of President Lech Kaczyński's school. Every year, the graduates chose their patron, and let it remain, and they were prominent politicians too. So why would a politician be the patron of the school? In order to make good the reasons for this argument, allow me to quote a few names. That was the dream. Prime Minister Tadeusz Mazowiecki, it was Marshal Piłsudski, it was Jan Nowak-Jeziorański, it was Eugeniusz Kwiatkowski, it was finally in 2008-2010 Bronisław Geremek, it was a dead man. Wiesław Chrzanowski, President in exile Mr Ryszard Kaczorowski etc. So it's the alumni's will to choose a patron. If there's a patron patron every year, I ask you, why are the charges, trying to make sure the school doesn't have a patron? This is the genesis of what we came to the High House with today as a government of the Republic of Poland. I don't want to judge because we agreed that the discussion would be at a high level, and let it stay that way, but the allegation that Professor Lech Kaczyński wasn't a graduate of this school or that he didn't create this school... [[He couldn't have been her graduate.]] ...couldn't have been for obvious, complete agreement, Professor. But here the question arises, one can say, on an equal level with the question that was asked, whether Prince Józef Poniatowski, because he was not building a bridge, could not be his patron. Ladies and gentlemen, if we are asking a question from this speaker, let's think about what weight and what caliber weapons we want to use to put on the other side. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the questions that came from this speaker, about the issue of this apoliticality - coming from Aristotle's teachings, are probably no longer relevant. We should all learn the art of governance, so that it is really aimed at the common good. And recalling the character of Lech Kaczyński, there were several elements in his life, apart from the beautiful achievements and scientific and political - just what was mentioned here, and what we are very lacking in politics today, i.e. That he was a great man. The fact that I'm in politics today is also thanks to sleep. Lech Kaczyński, because I was once a regular, smaller employee at the lowest possible levels of courts and prosecutors, I noticed how much he wanted to do for the Polish judiciary, how much and how much he did for the Polish judiciary in a short time. I do not know if you know, and this detail I would like to give you, I will always call it whenever I have the opportunity to say that it was the first and last Minister of Justice - the Attorney General, who hit the table with his hand and asked, and to this day it is mandatory for the judges to send directly to the Ministry information on why matters last 3 years, 4 years, 5 years. Each case is to be described separately, each with a signature and each with a reason for dragging it out. And this was the first serious signal, along with, of course, the prosecutorial guidelines, which is to be the third power, which today is the dispute - an important dispute, and the dispute is the essence of democracy, the foundation of democracy, one of the foundations, the very important pillars of democracy in every country - which the judiciary was supposed to be, whether lax, corrupt, serving only the establishment, or one that was supposed to meet all the constitutional standards, but above all, the standards that were intended to serve the ordinary citizen. And it was beautifully here that Mrs Borowiak gave some features: stability of attitude, concern for the common good, honesty and justice. And if we add to this: first of all, absolute competence, education, knowledge and experience, and if we add courage, because he did so in foreign policy, many times ridiculed, and today we see how these elements of his brave policy, we can say whether they will be the foundation, for example, in the discussion about the further shape of the European Union - his beautiful testimony in Georgia: courage, but also ability, ability to gather also leaders, leaders of these countries, which were crucial to show that certain issues and urges we will simply not give up - if we add these qualities to this, then I think that if we have graduates of the National School of Public Administration, it will still be better. And, Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, there was talk of dragging the rope. I think it's a bit of a shame that it happened that the motion was dropped. We're gonna have to vote him out. I think it will also happen in the atmosphere of great culture and also great consent. If the motion's been filed until he's withdrawn, we'll just have to vote him out. And nowhere more so than in the High House, there is nowhere more a title for such a bill to pass. It has also been tried here - may I say so politically, that in the political vocabulary is the word "playing," some are masters in such play, and already really the mastery in the pejorative sense of the word is to play the idea that we are talking about today, between the dead. Lechem Kaczyński and sleep. Władysław Stasiak. This is something that should never have in the Polish order not only legal, also in the Polish political culture of the place. We're not giving up on this. Even more, we will make the arguments very simple and very obvious - they simply would not wish for it. I think Tadeusz Mazowiecki wouldn't want that kind of political play either. [[Voice from the hall: Lech Kaczyński neither.]] Professor Lech Kaczyński's holy memory - there was a moment when he helped the graduates very much, helped the school. We call it back, and so did the professor. Well, as soon as the school was established, there were very serious difficulties in finding good and decent jobs for graduates, those from the First Promotion, Professor Lech Kaczyński was the first to offer work immediately to over half of these graduates. And thanks to his firmness first and determination, because it took the boss's firmness to make such a decision, 16 of the 34 graduates immediately took office. This year we also had the ambition of all those who graduated from this school, and this is undoubtedly the elite, to power Polish staff. And that's what happened, everybody got a job offer. Between 1993 and 1995 the graduates received this work in the Supreme Auditorium and then also this work... That's the alumni that went to sleep. Władysław Stasiak. I think that's why he wouldn't want this kind of play. The last argument I bring up about this policy. Why don't we have a policy debate here sometime? It's worth it. This argument is as follows: after all, also graduates of the National School of Public Administration, sometimes in life this happens, become politicians. Here's an example. Members of the state of the art, but also Members of the Law and Justice, as well as other graduates. I'm asking if this is bad... [[Voice from the room: Okay.]] ...if that's okay, sir. So sometimes, if we want to hit someone, let's see if it's worth it. High Izbo! On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Poland, I have this honour and request that the Government's draft law amending the Act on the National School of Public Administration concerning the name of the Professor of this school, precisely according to the literal wording of the Act, the President of the Republic of Poland Lech Kaczyński, become a fact as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u63	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask that the rapporteur of the committee, Józef Hrynkiewicz, speak. You're welcome, Professor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u64	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! Most of the questions were answered by the Minister. I just wanted to address some of the issues raised here in this debate. Maybe I'll say this: the life card sleeps. Lech Kaczyński is closed, just as the life card is closed. Prime Minister Tadeusz Mazowiecki. I don't think it's a good thing to bid. Many of us knew both of these people, we knew them to varying degrees, we worked with them, and it is very difficult for us to bid today. When the bridge was given to the new bridge in Podkarpacie, the name of the sleeper was given. Tadeusz Mazowiecki, there was no discussion. As you know, the subcarpathian is, as it is said, a voivodeship, which always votes mostly for the party to which I belong, for the party of Law and Justice, but there was no discussion there. We just thought it was also a deserved person and we wouldn't bid on merit. The merits of both will be appreciated by future generations, this is the most common. Today, thanks to Eugeniusz Romer, who in 1916 issued the atlas of the population of Polish lands, will probably be appreciated. Today, and the atlas was developed and released in 1916. So today they will be appreciated when we look at the history of this part of Europe. It seems to me that - I remember it well, I participated in these debates - the concept of the National School of Public Administration, like the concepts of many solutions at the beginning of the transformation, was created at the University of Warsaw, which was then all oriented towards change. I recall the names of the people who participated in this, then they were lecturers, such as the longtime director of Prof. Maria Gintowt-Jankowicz. But after all, Prof. Jacek Kurczewski was also there, Prof. Marcin Król was also the first chairman of the school board of Prof. Andrzej Tymowski, during the war insurgent, member of the Parasola, later, when the Solidarity was established, the chief expert in Szczecin, during the strikes at the Szczecin shipyard. So there were very different people who worked on different concepts. The scientific community, as Mr Rzońc asked, is and has always been in favour of Lech Kaczyński's activities. His activities, both political activities and scientific activities, activities in different spheres, in spheres of life, which we often know little about, have been questioned or never made any comments to this address. And after all, the environment of my university, the University of Warsaw, is very strongly connected also to the national school, because many of the teachers of this school have been connected to my university for 25 years, as well as with many other universities. I am sorry to hear today's discussion, because it is completely different from what has been discussed and how was discussed at the national school. I was involved with this school for many years and discussions among guests, discussions with guests, discussions with graduates, listeners and listeners were discussions that always ended in finding a common way out. We discussed it for so long, until all the arguments were exhausted. I believe that today's discussion has also exhausted all these arguments. Mrs Tomaszewska asked for a broader reference to the activities of the sleeper. Prof. Lech Kaczyński, as regards his activities related to the situation, the location of people, employees, especially those who were in a worse situation. I brought up one experience here, very important. When none of us had yet realized and did not know how capitalism would develop in the late 20th century, it was the dead. Lech Kaczyński worked on the Social Rent Act. It seemed so ridiculous. What's this? This is the witness for people who, because of very different circumstances, do not have any means of subsistence. And I remember how he got involved in this job and organized a very large group. When in 1976, so long before the establishment of the "Solidarity," we conducted research on the protection of work in industrial plants, I led this research, we did it in the Polish Economic Society, Lech Kaczyński was very deeply interested in this research. Then, when he was president, he used this research to draw up a new law on State Labour Inspection. Each of you, every one of you who has ever dealt with trade unions, who has been involved in politics, knows how important matters are in what we call social policy for our constituents. It was a very important matter. When Lech Kaczyński was Minister of Justice and when there was a great conference at the University of Warsaw with judges and ministers of Justice, with judges of the Supreme Court, I got up then and talked about taking children from poor families just because these families are poor. It was very ill received by the esteemed group and only Lech Kaczyński took an interest in this topic and asked me for materials. So I would like to say to Mrs Tomaszewska that she was a very sensitive person when it comes to human harm when it comes to trampling on dignity, when it comes to what is so ill, about forgetting other people's merits. It is also worth noting here that this was the characteristic of the president of the sleep. Lech Kaczyński, that he marked, reminded, recalled to our memory a lot of people deserved and at the same time forgotten. I know that in the fervour of various fights, in the fervour of current cases people are often forgotten about such people. Lech Kaczyński remembered them. He knew a lot of people like that. He remembered them and tried to make up for them and to help them in their difficult situation. I would therefore like to address Members of the Civic Platform once again. Let's not bid on who's got more credit. Everyone's got a lot of credit, and I think the moment the life card shut down is the worst time to bid. If we would like to celebrate Tadeusz Mazowiecki, but also very many others, there will be different opportunities for such a debate and indeed such honors to offer. On the other hand, when returning to the National School of Public Administration, it ends 25 years of its existence this year and appeals to the marshal. Perhaps it is worth organising a great debate in the High House on civil service, public administration and how it is to be prepared, how it is to work and how we are to manage this very valuable resource for you. I will take this initiative in the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and we will ask all of you to take part in this debate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u65	Thank you very much, Member. [[Mr. Marshal, I've been summoned so that...]] Mr Grupiński, as corrected. Here you go, one minute to corrigendum.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u66	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Professor, of course this isn't about any bidding. I would very much ask you not to make such a plea. Here's the problem. If you have already decided that a politician should be the patron of the National School of Public Administration, which the professor has been directing for some time, then it was necessary to consult all parliamentary clubs before making such a proposal, because it is in some sense politically quite one-sided, with all the merits of Lech Kaczyński. That's why I just want to say that if you want a politician to go to sleep. Lech Kaczyński, was the patron of this school, it is our duty, all those who remember the merits of the various people who, for the history of this school, had these merits, a reminder of the creator of this school, because it is difficult, [[♪ The bell ♪]] When it comes to such a proposal that we do not remind that Tadeusz Mazowiecki created this school, he signed an act of incorporation. That's it, that's it. No bidding, because of course you're asleep. Tadeusz Mazowiecki or the president is asleep. Lech Kaczyński didn't deserve any bidding. This is not a merit bidding, because I could remind you that in 1989, I do not know if you remember, Tadeusz Mazowiecki did not run in elections. Why didn't he take off? Because the representatives of other groups who agreed to the round table agreement were not included in the lists of solidarity. He remembered them and gave up his own start because of others. So he was a politician of really great format, a man of great format. He was the creator of the KSAP, and that's all we wanted to remember. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u67	Thank you, sir. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, an amendment was tabled to the proposed bill, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Ladies and gentlemen, before we proceed to the next point, I will announce a two-minute technical recess. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 11 mins 03 hours 11 min 06]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: Report from the Commission for Energy and Treasury on the Government draft law amending the Law on the Functioning of Coal Mining and some other laws (prints Nos 722 and 753). I ask Mrs Ewa Malik to present a report to the committee. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u68	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Energy and the Treasury on its work on the government proposal for a law amending the law on the functioning of hard coal mining and certain other laws, Seym printing Nos 722 and 753. The project was addressed to the Committee on Energy and the Treasury for consideration at the 23rd Sejm meeting on 19 July 2016. The Commission worked on it at its meetings on 21 July 2016 and 5 September 2016 and the result of the committee's work is a report in Parliament's printing No 753. The draft amendment concerns, in view of the very important economic and social objectives of the State, the need to amend the laws: the Law of 7 September 2007 on the functioning of coal mining and the Law of 30 August 2013 on the grant for certain entities. It is also the result of the creation of a division: the economy with fossil deposits and the creation of a budget section 48: the economy with fossil deposits. Revision of the provisions cited above. the laws are necessary in view of the performance of the tasks enshrined in those laws by the energy resort. It is therefore necessary to remove the discrepancies preventing the mobilisation of funds from the special-purpose reserve for the financing of tasks carried out in the course of the decommissioning of mines, cover services in the form of mining leave and leave for employees of the coal processing plant and to cover the current production losses of enterprises. It is also necessary to amend the provisions relating to the financing of budgetary subsidies for the tasks carried out in the energy department, inter alia. This is the extension of the funding period for these tasks until 2020 for the Salt Mine Bochnia sp. z o.o. due to the limited financial resources provided for in the budget laws in relation to the amounts included in the approved decommissioning programme and in addition to the programme for the decommissioning of additional bottom-up works. The amendment also justifies the need to allow financing from 2017 onwards from the budget subsidy of the operations carried out after completion of decommissioning work carried out by the Mine of Sulfur Machów in liquidation. The draft also transferred specific powers to companies operating in the electricity, oil and gas sectors from the Minister responsible for State Treasury to the Minister responsible for Energy. At the second meeting of the committee, on 5 September this year, two important parliamentary amendments and legislative and editorial amendments tabled by the Parliamentary Legislative Office were presented to the draft submitted in print No 722 and were adopted by the committee after the discussion. The project is not subject to public consultation as it allows for the continuation of restructuring processes in hard coal mining on terms already agreed with the social side. However, the adoption of the project entails financial implications for the state budget. This is the sum of 101 100 000. PLN in the years 2016 and 2020 resulting from the amendment of the provisions of the Law of 30 August 2013 on grants for certain entities. It is also about the amount of 61 125 thousand. zł for the liquidation programme for the Salt Mine Bochnia sp. z o.o. The budget will also be charged an amount of 4872 000. PLN per year, total of 19 488 thousand. zł, because this amount is planned to be spent on financing operations after completion of decommissioning works in Piaseczno mining plant carried out by Miań Sierka Machów in liquidation. From the amendment adopted at the committee meeting on 5 September this year. results in an increase in the amount related to the budgetary expenditure limit referred to in Article. Article 8a (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 3 and Article 4 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] shall apply mutatis mutandis. 11f Act of 7 September 2007 on the functioning of hard coal mining, in the years 2015 to 2018 up to a maximum of PLN 7 billion. The project, 722 and 753, is compatible with European Union law and does not contain technical regulations and therefore does not require a notification procedure in its case. Following the examination of the amendments tabled at the meeting on 5 September 2016 and after their positive opinion, the Commission for Energy and the Treasury asks the High Sejm to adopt the draft law submitted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u69	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Beata Mateusiak-Pieluch, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u70	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I recommend the adoption of a law amending the law on the operation of hard coal mining and certain other laws. The proposed law is intended to amend the Act of 7 September 2007 on the Functioning of Coal Mining, the Law of 18 March 2010 on the specific powers of the Minister of State Treasury and their implementation in certain capital companies or groups active in the electricity, oil and gas sectors and in the Law of 30 August 2013 on grants for certain entities. As a result of the amendment of the Government Administration Act of 19 November 2015 and the amendment of the Law on the Functioning of Coal Mining of 22 December 2015, and following the entry into force of the Finance Minister's Regulation of 2 December 2015 concerning the classification of budgetary parts and the identification of their contributors, the budgetary resources intended to finance the processes related to the restructuring of the hard coal mining sector were included in the budget section 48: The Kosalin Economics. Since the authority empowered to conclude grant agreements for the financing of the tasks laid down in the Act on the Functioning of Coal Mining remains the Minister responsible for energy matters, there was a discrepancy preventing the mobilisation of funds from the special reserve for the financing of tasks carried out during the decommissioning of mines, as well as cover services in the form of mining holidays and leave for employees of the coal processing plant and to cover the current production losses of the company. The proposed amendments aim at removing the gap. With regard to the amendments to the Law of 30 August 2013 on a grant for certain entities, the proposed provisions aim to allow financing from a budget grant at the disposal of the Minister of Energy of operations carried out after completion of decommissioning works in the Piaseczno mining plant carried out by the Mine of Machów SA in liquidation and to extend the grant period for tasks carried out by the Salt Mine Bochnia until the end of 2020. Mine of Sulfur Machów S.A. in liquidation has so far received a grant under the Law of 14 July 2000 on financial restructuring of sulphur mining in accordance with the agreement concluded with the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. This agreement provided for the financing of the Liquefying and Recultivating Works of the Machów Sulphur Mine by the end of 2015. This deadline was postponed until the end of 2016 due to the need to complete the work. Failure to provide the means to carry out the task of maintaining the drainage system from the water reservoir set up in the Piaseczno excavation site may contribute to the uncontrolled reconstruction of the water mirror in the areas adjacent to the excavation site. In such a situation, both agricultural crops and residential buildings would remain in direct danger of submersibles. In order to counteract these adverse effects, a drainage and drainage system is needed. Therefore, the granting of a budget grant appears to be the only way to protect the areas adjacent to the Piaseczno excavation from damage. There is also a need to extend the subsidy period for tasks carried out by the Bochnia Salt Mine until 2020. This is particularly the case for work aimed at eliminating the historic part of the plant and taking action to ensure proper traffic safety and securing historic excavations. It should be borne in mind that the Bochnia Salt Mine is a unique monument, and some of the excavations due to the undoubted historical advantages have been included in the UNESCO World Cultural and Natural Heritage List. Action is needed to restore extremely valuable historical excavations and to eliminate areas that threaten them. The proposed amendments to the Law of 18 March 2010 on the special powers of the Minister responsible for State Treasury matters and their implementation in certain capital companies operating in electricity, oil and gas fuels sectors are intended to avoid any disputes of competence between the Minister competent for State Treasury and the Minister competent for Energy or other entities exercising ownership rights in shares of State Treasury companies. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In the proposed amendment to the law on the operation of hard coal mining, the definition of a single-member company of the Treasury carrying out tasks in repairing the damage caused by the operation of the mining plant after its liquidation was added. The amendment of the law on the operation of hard coal mining is also intended to supplement the tasks of repairing mining damage caused by the operation of the mining plant in such a way that the damage caused by the operation of the mining plant during the liquidation and as a result of operations carried out after the liquidation is completed. Therefore, we consider it necessary to adopt this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u71	Thank you, Member. And please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Gadowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u72	Mr. Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! [[You can do 42 seconds more.]] I have the pleasure on behalf of the Civic Platform club to present the club's position on the draft law on government, once again, the government draft law on amending the law on the operation of hard coal mining and some other laws. I will not be able to address all the provisions of this law in detail in such a short time, but I will refer to the two most controversial, according to the Civic Platform. Well, the first one is Art. 1 point 1, in which the government introduces into the draft law a single-member company of the State Treasury, see: the Coal Company, from which, I remind you, all 23 mines were taken out or transferred in the last period, but by May for sure. Those entities were transferred or sold in due time. Today, 11 entities operate in the Coal Company: Gliwice Zakłady Usługi Górnicze sp. z o.o. - underground works in mines, Trakt sp. z o.o., which deals with transport, Hadex SA - e.g. processing of mining waste and aggregates, Company Remontowe Remontowe REMASZ - company dealing with repair of machinery and, attention, Górnośląska Spółka Ubezpieczeńowa, which formed a capital group consisting of: Insurance Company sp. z o.o., Aid Mining Insurance Club SA, Górnośląska Spółka Brokerska sp. z o.o., as well as other companies of the Konsorcjum Ochrony Kopalń: the Vistula tourist company, the company centre sp. z o.o., Górnicze Publishing House - four titles and Gross company, Ania, which deals with catering services. All these companies have gathered together, please, as many as 22 members of the board, 18 procurents and as many as 65 members of the supervisory boards. Today we want to transfer funds to this company, the Coal Company, for the disposal of mining damages. Question: "Isn't this company able to make money?" Few of this, in this company there is also a Branch of the Plant for the Management of Mine, which, according to the Minister, employs 170 people and 5 directors to the organization. Similar activities include the Company for Restructuring of Mines. It seems reasonable and effective for such activities to be performed by the Company of Restructuring of Mines. It's not serious, it's not responsible. It's unfair to the miners who are being served with the additional maintenance of these boards, these supervisory boards, these procurators. We're not being honest with those miners we took away some of the salaries, some of them we suspended because we were looking for money. Today we want to give extra money to this entity. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to refer to the article. 4. Well, at the committee meeting - this is a government project, I would like to remind you - the Member of Law and Justice brings an amendment with the amount of PLN 7 billion, which increases the amount allocated to the restructuring of mining from PLN 3 billion, I remind you, to PLN 7 billion. The government doesn't know how much money it needs to restructure the mining industry? I would like to remind you that these funds can only be used to liquidate mines and to restructure jobs in mines or in parts of mines. Those are the records, ladies and gentlemen, Article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 and Article 4 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] That is why I ask the question, which I have not received to this day: What is the schedule? What exactly are these measures meant to be used for? Is the government afraid to clearly answer to the miners that he will still liquidate such mines, not other additional mines, and for this he needs concrete measures? Because there's nothing else that these measures can do. Ladies and gentlemen, yes, there is no scheme for restructuring mining. The government had so much time, 2 years in power, he was preparing in opposition for 8 years, and it's been 10 months since the government ruled, a government that should have a clear and precise program. On the one hand, we give funds for restructuring, for decommissioning, for checks, and on the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, there is no declaration of transfer of funds to create new jobs. No declaration has been made or any document appears that could lead to the development of Silesia, to create Some kind of alternative. The Civic Platform government has prepared a program for Silesia. It's been nine months, I remind you, eight months in opposition and two months when Law and Justice ruled. Today there are no documents, today there are no programs, so today there is no specific offer. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At the committee meeting, we did not receive a clear decision, a schedule of payments or payments, nor information about the budgeting in a specific calendar year, we did not receive the name of a particular company, entity or mine that will be liquidated during that period. We hope that we will still be able to convince the Minister and point out the actors and resources that will be transferred for specific purposes. The Civic Platform Club then decides to accept or reject this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u73	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Sitarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u74	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz club15 in relation to the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the law on the operation of hard coal mining and certain other laws. On 15 July 2016, the project entered the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. My statement generally concerns the report of the Committee on Energy and the Treasury after its first reading. a draft law. Production in mining was and is the nature of the exploitation of deposits over the production cycle, where we count on working time throughout the operation of the plant, as well as on the development of infrastructure after the completion of the plant. Coal mining has until recently been involved in general robbery policy. Investment activities must take account of the non-renewable nature of deposits, and therefore the mines and their assets must be protected from waste. The Treasury allocates budget subsidies to the implementation and financing of the costs associated with restructuring activities. Here I refer to earlier claims regarding possible PLN 7 billion. It should be noted that the project has: up to 7 billion. It is not said there, as far as I know, that this 7 billion will be used. This is a possible security for unexpected costs, because if we knew what will happen tomorrow, we would already spend 1 billion PLN, and at this point we need to secure 7 billion PLN for these tasks, possibly if they are higher than before. Local government units from their own purse are unable to carry out tasks carried out during and after the liquidation of mines and repair of mining damages. So these measures have to go for it, too. Recultivation of the mining grounds must be carried out wisely. It should also be borne in mind that the budgetary resources cover the costs of eliminating water, gas, fire and many other continuous and continuous deformities, which are known to occur in the event of exploitation. That's what we need resources for, too. The management of the property of the State Treasury must take place with all economic manifestations. Economic governance is an important issue, which is appropriate for each owner's management. A fair restructuring will help to maintain the mining industry's mining production and efficiency. The energy security of the country will also be conducive to this. However, the role of every opposition is to look at the government's actions and control. According to the decision of the Council of the European Union of 10 December 2010 on State aid to facilitate the closure of uncompetitive coal mines, it is envisaged to subsidise plants only until 2018. After that, the mines must either cease their operations or go straight. And here is an important issue, the issue of increasing the budgetary expenditure limit for the restructuring of coal mining. These are corrective measures, i.e. measures. for shields, mining holidays, one-off cash checks for outgoing miners and activities related to the financing of the costs of mines transferred to the Company for Restructuring of Mines. Appropriate resources are needed for these restructuring activities in mining. I recommend, on behalf of the club, that the maximum spending limit be increased, but there is a need to improve the control of spending and reporting on the activities of spending it. At the same time, I note that the Polish state and the government of the Republic of Poland must contribute to the defence of the mining industry and the entire heavy and energy industry in Poland. That's why I'm keeping it from shutting down and shutting it all down and at all costs. You have to take care of the good we have. I therefore support this project, but with the utmost attention that it is still necessary to control, monitor and ensure that mining in our country does not fail. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u75	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u76	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! It is my pleasure to present the position of the Modern for this law. I must say that I am astonished to hear the speeches of Members, both those who have actually had a long time to... [[This is a good change, sir.]] ...these solutions are introduced, as well as those who have ruled for almost a year. [[Applause]] We don't see spectacular successes here either. I can understand that the need to amend these rules is due to some formal reasons relating to administrative reform, the emergence of new departments. And I accept that. However, it is difficult to understand the amount of funding that we are dealing with in this law. I would like to remind you that the current level of costs that have been forecasted for decommissioning activities, among others. in the field of employee benefits, this amount is PLN 4 billion. In the Committee on Energy and the Treasury, we asked the Minister the question of how this new number of 7 billion results. Unfortunately, the Minister couldn't answer that question, I have to say it sadly. You couldn't say, Minister, asking for your trust that you wouldn't spend more than necessary. I must say that this approach has nothing to do with the rationalisation of budgetary expenditure and the care of the public pennies, which we are all committed to in this Chamber, ladies and gentlemen. So this modern club will make a second-reading amendment that restores the previous amount of funding, because this amount of funding was documented by a real business plan, the actions that need to be taken in this sector. If there is a specific business plan and we are sure that the taxpayer's money will be used properly, we will also support this change. For today, unfortunately, the Ministry hasn't done their homework. Therefore, Minister, there is nothing left for me to do but ask for a re-preparation of my homework. What worries me, folks, is the question of leaving the Coal Company mentioned above. Indeed, those figures that fell from the Seym Council, concerning the number of management posts, supervisory boards, companies that were left behind, are appalling and we can only guess, looking at other companies of the State Treasury, that there will certainly be activists there in a moment, and at best sympathizers of Law and Justice. [[Activators, activists.]] Well, if they're competent people, but I'm afraid it might be difficult with these competences. In conclusion, the bill is adopted quickly, without the necessary analyses. As I said, we are making an amendment that aims to restore the state of the previous draft, and we will support these solutions when this amendment is adopted. If the High House rejects them, we will be forced to vote against. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u77	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u78	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Indeed, the law is adopted quickly, amendments are tabled, and these are serious amendments. If these were substantive amendments, those that concern the core of the matter, namely the transition of competences, changes in competences related to the change of the names of ministries, subpoenas, etc., while we put huge amounts in here from day to day, with billions, and no one can explain what these billions are going to go for. The mining problem started in the election campaign when the declarations were made that we would not eliminate the mines. At the moment, these social unrests are already emerging among miners, and newer communications in the media are emerging about the intention to liquidate, about different ideas. No one knows exactly what our Polish mining will look like. This wastefulness and these proposals of weird spending such huge funds can only cause concern, therefore the Polish People's Party is practically opposed to such solutions, because if we in the committee find out that from day to day 4 billion are to be invested in mines additionally, that the mines and further maintenance of the Movement and the gradual elimination of damage, the effects have been functioning so far and should function, and here nothing changes, that exempt miners need to be helped in restructuring, etc. - that's important too, and I don't think anybody's gonna question it here, but that needs to be explained. I want to remind you of the situation of last autumn, when we took the money from the Material Reserve Agency for mining with a light hand, for coal buyout, and no one could answer, what money it would be, how much money it would cost, where it would go. And we still don't know. Do any of you know where the money went from the Material Reserve Agency? We don't know. So I would ask, Minister, the question is, what money then... 'Cause maybe you didn't take the money, and if you took it, how much coal was bought or went to other targets, because then we asked what the money would go for. The problem of mining is a serious problem, and it should be taken seriously. We need to make concrete proposals, have a restructuring plan and continue to operate. Therefore, the Polish People's Party will continue to wonder whether it supports this law. We will see what the Minister will say at the committee meeting. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u79	Thank you, sir. And please take the floor of Mr Ireneus for profit.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u80	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the draft law amending the law on the operation of hard coal mining and certain other laws. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It's a very good direction of change, it's a good law, it's a responsible approach, it's taking care of what's going on in Polish mining. Unfortunately, my dear fellow Member, my previous speaker, the previous government has made huge omissions in the field of hard coal mining - also in the field of energy, but especially in the field of hard coal mining, brown coal as well. We had an example, we had the opportunity to listen to your deputy prime minister, who was responsible for this department of the economy, and I will not quote those words because they are just embarrassing. In general, time was wasted and many, many bad things were done. It's best to sit and do nothing, and that's enough. This is enough to bring down Polish mining, the Polish energy industry, because it is extremely connected. This law aims to secure financial resources from the special-purpose reserve for the financing of tasks related to the decommissioning of mines, for the implementation of cover services in the form of mining holidays, leave for workers of coal processing plants, to cover the current production losses of non-production enterprises and to transfer funds for the repair of mining damages. We know that after the establishment of the Polish Mining Group, not all elements of the Węglowa Company, which were part of this large company, could be found in the Polish Mining Group, which was able to carry out an effective business activity. Here, ladies and gentlemen, objectively speaking, we must appreciate the efforts of the Ministry of Energy, we must appreciate the efforts of the government to heal the situation, the catastrophic situation in mining. That is why, as part of the amendment tabled by Ms Ewa Kozanecka at the meeting of the Committee on Energy and the Treasury on 5 September, which was adopted to increase the funds for the restructuring of coal mining to PLN 7 billion, is not unusual and please do not reflect so much on the fact that there is some great drama here, some loss to the State Treasury. On the contrary, please look at, also in the European context, what coal mining looks like at the moment. Spain, which excavates coal at the level of one large mine in Poland, has allocated... [[You shouldn't have slowed down.]] ... coal mining six times more financial resources than Poland, which accounts for 80 percent of hard coal on the scale of Europe, not to mention the German economy, which has invested more than 13 times more than Poland's support for mining. Therefore, this enchanting of reality, that something bad is happening, means a complete misunderstanding or a deliberate misrepresentation of the picture of the situation that is taking place. The Ministry of Energy must be absolutely supported. [[The reality of the spell, Holy Mother.]] I think you'd better keep up the good work, Minister. Of course, I approach all the elements, all the actions that are being taken. We will certainly also expect a detailed explanation, a report, for which this money has been given, so that it is not simply wasted. This is public money and we all care about responsible spending. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that in this situation, because today we still have an hour. The 16th Energy and Treasury Commission meeting must be strongly supported by this legislative initiative. It is part of a wide range of activities relating to the restructuring of coal mining, as well as the security of such plants, former mining plants, such as the Bochnia Salt Mine and Machów Sierki Machów SA Mine. We know about the problems that occur in former mining plants, and these actions must be determined not to endanger property or even the health and life of local residents. Ladies and gentlemen! High Seym! Dear Minister! The Free and Solidarni Circle will support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u81	Thank you, sir. Since there is still time for the Modern Posel Club, Mr Paweł Pudłowski will take the floor on behalf of this club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u82	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! As an entrepreneur and a second-degree mining director, I can't sit still and listen to what you're saying. For 8 years, the PO-PSL coalition didn't do much, tried, but didn't do much. And now we hear that suddenly we're going to increase the budget from 4 billion to 7 billion. We increase by 3 billion on the basis of laconic slogans, which is to be covered by this expenditure. If this money is needed, and I believe it is, I would expect a detailed presentation of the plan for which this money will go, for which mines, therefore. Now, gentlemen, what kind of company could afford to double the budget every day? What company? Only one company: state. A country that can indebt itself to future generations, and that's what we're doing. We need to be responsible about this, not in such a way that we need 3 billion. Why not $5 billion? Why don't we make 5 billion or 10 billion? There'd be a bigger pool to split, everyone would be happy. Ladies and gentlemen! Either we take responsibility for the management of the state or let it go, because we can't accept what we're doing right now. It's happening here. The deficit is increasing, the debt of the state is increasing. It's time for rational management. And if more is needed, please describe in detail what. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u83	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Twenty-five parliamentarians, ladies and gentlemen of the House have signed up for questions. Twenty-six. If there are no more volunteers, I'm closing the list. You're welcome, sir. As so many Members are assigned to the task of questions, I set 1 minute as the time for the task of the question. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] You're welcome. [[I knew it.]] Okay, let's make it one and a half. [[Voice from the room: Thank you.]] You're welcome. [[30 seconds.]] You're welcome. Ms Danuta Pietraszewska will be the first to speak. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u84	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The statutory, documented limit for mining restructuring expenditure prepared by the Civic Platform was PLN 3 billion. PiS increased this limit by 120% That's up to 7 billion. This money can only be spent on mine decommissioning and restructuring of employment. Which mines do you still want to destroy outside the mines Peace and Silesia Movement, both of Rudy Silesia, whose fate has already been decided? You've already eliminated about $5,000. jobs. Where's the money for new jobs? What forms of aid and resources have you devoted to re-training people made redundant so that they can return to the labour market? One-time briefings, vacations are in the short term. What will happen to these people in the near future? Unfortunately, some of them will be placed under social assistance centres without re-training. Is that what you want? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u85	Thank you. I would ask you to ask Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u86	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! 7 billion PLN for restructuring - read: decommissioning - coal mines. At the same time, there is no decision to help make sure that such money does not have to be spent on brown coal, because this is brown coal. It also requires decisions that don't happen at the moment. A simple example: here in Konin there is a need for 220 hectares of land to be deflected so that a 7% protective opener can be built. the energy of the country, so that the work has several thousand people plus co-operation companies - 35 thousand. People. And there's no decision. There is no decision of the Minister of Agriculture, which, due to 2 ha in one municipality and 220 ha in the other municipality, does not want to make a decision which is strategic for the security of critical infrastructure of the state. If there is no such discovery, it will be necessary to announce the really premature, decisive bankruptcy of the horse-back pit, which will result in a catastrophe for Wielkopolska and Poland as a whole. Minister! I appeal on behalf of thousands of people, on behalf of the entire region, for a decision to be made [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is a good idea. It's a good idea. It's a good idea. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u87	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Paweł Bańkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u88	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It has been 10 months since the rule of law and justice took over and the strategy that the Prime Minister spoke of during the election campaign has not seen the light of day. We are also dealing with empty promises when it comes to creating jobs in place of job losses or, as you wish, job losses. Minister! The beginning of the Polish Mining Group was to be the symbolic end of the Coal Company, which lost its status as a mining company, and in accordance with the intention of the Act to deal only with the elimination of mining damages. However, the Coal Company has become a mine of jobs for more than 30 presidents and vice presidents, more than 60 members of supervisory boards and a dozen procurents of 11 subsidiaries who are engaged in not mining but catering, hotel activities, and one of the companies is also engaged in bookbinding. Minister! My question is: What restructuring activities regarding the Coal Company does the Ministry foresee? Whether non-productive assets will be disposed of and whether 170 persons will be sold as energy companies [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the Plant for Mining will only deal with the elimination of mining damage? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u89	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Mark Kwitek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u90	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! First of all, on behalf of the residents of the Sandomierz County, I would like to thank the Minister for the legislative initiative to enable financing from 2017 onwards from the budget subsidy of the operations carried out after the completion of the decommissioning work in Piaseczno mine, carried out by Machów Mine in liquidation in Tarnobrzeg. So far, the mine has received subsidies from the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. This financing was to be completed in 2015. In 2016, the funds could have run out of resources. The previous coalition of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party could not solve this problem, which could result in drowning nearly 6 thousand. ha covering in a significant part the fruiting crops and several hundred farms and residential buildings in adjacent areas of Piaseczno mining excavation in the municipalities of Lonia, Koprzywnica and Samborc in the Sandomierz district. Unfortunately, it was wrong that the funds allocated to the Machów amounted to 1.4 billion... This, of course, led to the construction of a beautiful recreational tank there, while only 19 million were allocated to Piaseczno and the environmental bomb was still ticking there. Now we gain time to prepare a comprehensive project of meliorative and drainage protection. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's why I'm asking the Minister because we can't keep pumping this water forever: Who's gonna do the drainage system and what are the sources of its funding? Does the government see the possibility of building a drainage and drainage system to finance work to create a recreational tank, as it did in Machov? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u91	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Elżbieta Duda. There is no Member. In that case, Mrs Marta Golbik. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u92	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! As a Member of the Śląskie Voivodship, I am aware, as many other Members here, that these measures will bring peace, mitigating the process of mine extinction. However, if public money is spent, as has already been said, it is necessary to present a timetable for such spending. The Minister, saying: we want to have security for the whole process, so that it is credible, rational, above all keeping calm and order in the conduct of this process, meant, I think, the whole process of restructuring mining, not just a fragment of it or the elimination of some of the jobs. Minister, I have a fundamental question: What amount of resources is provided for under the upper limit of expenditure laid down in the Act for deep restructuring and mine management processes, other than wages and derivatives? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u93	Thank you. I ask the floor of Mrs Jolanta Hibner.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u94	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Everyone here is appalled by the fact that many entities have sprouted from the Coal Company, which should not have been there for a long time. This amendment to the law on the functioning of hard coal mining has among others. order the process of restructuring mining. But how does she restructure? It transfers to the restructuring company in the branch specially for housing resources and management of property all tasks, after which it maintains in the Coal Company the Plant for the Management of Property, which deals with the same things: also land, industrial, commercial and other properties as well as health facilities. Wasn't it better to feed on the existence of a military property facility and create an entity that will oversee all such facilities and such tasks? There would be no controversy. Perhaps the Minister will reconsider the matter so that he can set up a mining facility that has everything under it. It will then be transparent, clear, possible to check, will be social control. The employees will not have 178 people and 5 directors just to make sure they have sontekuras. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u95	Thank you. I ask the floor of Mrs Ewa Kołodziej.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u96	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I would like to ask about the Mining Publishing House sp. z o.o., which maintains four titles of mining press. I'm guessing that, in fact, taxpayers keep these papers, these titles, because we don't know anything about profits from mining companies. We don't know anything about it being balanced. It's unbelievable that every mining company has its own newspaper, but it's real. Even the new company established in May this year, the Polish Górnicza Group, has its title. Please, it's beautiful. A fat, colorful newspaper with beautiful pictures. I have another newspaper. I understand that this is a tool of government, a tube of government that is only meant to serve propaganda and generate abstract, unintelligible costs to no one. With such a difficult situation in mining and a long-term miserable economic situation on energy resources, is it reasonable to finance several press titles and maintain your own publishing house? Do you plan to keep this fiction alive for a long time and continue to generate inefficient and unnecessary expenses? Because from our point of view, it's irrational. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u97	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Rafał Weber.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u98	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The current opposition is dressing that the government of Law and Justice, the current management of the Ministry of Energy, has done little in these 10 months in terms of Polish hard coal. Of course, that is not true, and the Minister will prove it in a moment. But I want to set the opposite example. I would like to give an example of the long-standing negligence of the government of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party, which is being resolved in this law. I am talking about the amendment of this law, which assumes that the Law of 30 August 2013 on the grant for certain entities adds the Machów Sulphur Mine as an entity which will be subject to direct financial support. This operation of the Ministry of Energy will allow to continue the processes carried out after completion of decommissioning works in the Piaseczno mining plant carried out by the Mine of Sulphur Machów SA in liquidation. It should be stressed that the integration of the Machów Sulphur Mine into grant recipients is a relief of the Tarnobrzeg self-government - the mine's owner body. A grant of over 4,800 thousand. PLN will be transferred annually from 2018 to 2020. The total amount of the grant is almost PLN 20 million. Minister, thank you on behalf of the local public for this initiative and for solving this problem so comprehensively. The Tarnobrzeg government can finally take a breather when it comes to this matter. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I have a question: Why was this problem not solved in recent years when the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party ruled the country? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u99	Thank you. I would like to ask Mrs Zofia Czernow to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u100	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Today we are discussing a program for the decommissioning of coal mines. In fact, it is an aid scheme for miners, but this does not change the fact that we are dealing with the decommissioning of mines, the decommissioning of thousands of jobs, although in the election campaign PiS promised to maintain the extraction. We remember the famous pictures of the prime minister in front of the mines. My question concerns brown coal, the mining of which in Zagłęb Turoszowski, in my constituency, is the basis of the energy economy. Thousands of people work here. Does the government have a strategy for brown coal? Are we gonna wait for what's gonna happen? I'm asking for an answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u101	Mr Andrzej Czerwiński will speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u102	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! We all know that mining is difficult to solve. This is a task that requires concentration, knowledge, sometimes courage, reliability, systematicness and agreement of many parties. We know that mining has not always been susceptible to change for various reasons. Minister, using your presence, I'd like to ask you a question. I suspect... I don't want to go into personal space and judge your consequences, your knowledge or your courage, but I do remember a 15-minute lecture here, in this room, about the superiority of muteing mines over their extinction. [[The liquidation.]] What has changed from now on that you are now proposing to amend a law which, by definition, leads to the elimination of mines? And you know very well what I am talking about, and the European Commission is watching this, that there can be no investment in mines, that there is a change in your speech. By explaining that there will be no change, there will be no immediate liquidation, and now you also expect us, the opposition, to support the programme leading to the elimination of mines. I'm not saying if it's right or wrong, [[♪ The bell ♪]] It is necessary, but what change in your mentality has occurred that you are asking for the support of this program? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u103	Thank you. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Anna Nemś.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u104	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I remember February 2015, a larum in this room when we adopted the law on the operation of mining. And since February 2015, when you draw a handful of ideas that have already been left by the Platform, there are no concrete ideas. Your government colleague, Minister Zalewska, said that there were no details, because we could misinterpret them. So, please, if that's possible, a little more specific. It is impossible to talk about mining at all - and you realize it - without having a comprehensive programme for Silesia. The Silesia 2.0 program does not like it. Some of these cases, which the Silesia 2.0 programme included: reversed VAT, infrastructure, revitalization, K2, metropolitan areas, already took place. I have a question for you, Minister, as a citizen of our region. What is your attitude towards the Agreement for the Integrated Development Policy of the Silesian Voivodship? A bottom-up initiative, not brought from Warsaw in a briefcase, developed by the voivodship council of social dialogue. This programme includes both elements of regeneration, reindustrialisation and metropolitanisation. As Minister, can you guarantee us that the money that is due to Silesia will be needed? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Aren't they gonna run out? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u105	Please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Sitarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u106	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! My question is this: Is there a chance and when dignitaries so far, previously managing mining will in any way be held responsible and accounted for earlier destruction of the Polish mining industry? [[There are new dignitaries.]] Is there even a chance, Minister? Here's another thing. Isn't that so - because everyone here is talking about the problem that mining is a problem - that mining is not a problem, the problem is so far poor mining management styles and generally parasitic mode, which accompanied all activities in the mining industry? Is there a chance at this point that at least a few taxes will come down in the mining industry and, to put it this way, weight off the fiscal burden of each tonne of coal? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u107	Thank you, sir. And please take the floor of Mr Mirosław Suchon.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u108	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Dear Minister, our very dear Minister, it is possible to add countless billions of zlotys to the mining industry, this industry will certainly absorb, but the question is what will happen. For today I do not know, no perspective has been presented, no information has been provided, which consists of the 7 billion PLN that you have proposed. I'd like to ask you the following questions, Minister. First of all, can anyone come to the committee meeting and make an amendment on PLN 4 billion, and the government approves, so to speak? This may be due to the fact that you yourself proposed to one of the Members to make such an amendment, and that is why this amendment resulted, but the question arises as to whether you have calculations concerning these additional PLN 4 billion, whether this has been calculated in detail, whether there is an analysis of where it will go and what the results of this financing will be. It seems to me that this is very unclear, and that is why I would very much ask the Minister to explain it to you. Due to the fact that other responsibilities are waiting, I ask the Minister to reply in writing and send the calculation in detail on the amendment concerning PLN 4 billion, due to the meetings of the Parliamentary Committee. And second question. Has an analysis been carried out concerning this, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Can you optimize the structure of employment in the Coal Company? I will honestly admit that these cosmic numbers of members of supervisory boards, members of the board, call for vengeance to heaven. I suspect it was the union bourgeoisie there that just settled in. I would very much ask the Minister to clarify this matter and I would also ask for a written reply. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u109	Thank you. I ask for the floor of Mrs Izabela Katarzyna Mrzygłocka. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u110	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You are allocating PLN 7 billion for the decommissioning of mines and restructuring of jobs in liquidated mines. But the government doesn't exactly have a program, there's no specific amounts, there's no payout schedule, there's no actors, because if you had it, you would have introduced it to us, and you're not doing it. You might say you don't know how much money you need. Maybe this size is good, maybe it's bad, but if we don't have that data, then how do we know? Or maybe some of these funds can be used to pay a coal debt to former workers, mining pensioners. You showed us a blue folder full of laws, full of projects. The Minister promises a project. It was supposed to be in March, June, it's mid-September and nothing. Minister, when is this project going to be, what funds have you secured in the budget for this purpose, what group will be included in the planned, promised project? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u111	Thank you. I ask the floor of Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u112	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will, of course, continue this appalling topic of 7 billion PLN, where my fellow Member is no longer present, stressed that we are discussing unnecessarily such small expenses, right, in the context of Spain, and we are leaning on it unnecessarily. But I think there's a need. However, I think differently from a colleague who trusts that if the Minister knew what he was going to do with this money, he would share it with us. I think that knowledge is, because it's hard not to be. Looking at what categories of expenditure can only be made in relation to the decommissioning of mines and how they are calculated, it is not so difficult to calculate what size It is, if you know, of course, how many mines and what kind of mines you want to eliminate. The answer is one: this liquidation involves a lot more mines than originally assumed and the government knows, but it does not necessarily want to share this knowledge for well-known reasons, or there is a second option, that these funds are intended to be eliminated, but in the form of liquidation salaries, so graphically and generally speaking, because looking at how beautifully this growth is growing, this liquefying-restructuring cancer on what is not anymore [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mine, that's expected to be another son of a bitch. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u113	Please take the floor of Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u114	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Many such disturbing questions have appeared here, so I think it is worth asking once again this question, whether the government even has a concept of the functioning of mining in Poland, because there is more and more anxiety. What we have today in mining, and these situations, these declarations are quite different than they were in the election campaign a year ago. It's causing anxiety, it's about the increased financial expenditure. How is mining supposed to work? What is the structure of mining, energy in Poland? All this time we heard about the advantage of black energy over renewable energy, here it was re-proved what the benefits would be. I would like to ask the question: Have all the indirect costs we are discussing also been included in these comparative materials? These are the costs that the state budget incurs when talking about the price of black energy and green energy. I would ask for an answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u115	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski will ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u116	Mr. Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! Minister, today too, the words and questions related to whether the government, or whether the Prime Minister is aware that the Member of Law and Justice has made such an amendment or whether the Government has approved such a amount in the budget, to this law, because I have great concerns. I would very much ask the Minister to answer me whether this was the subject of a government debate or not. The second question, Minister, is addressed to you in the context of the liquidation of the Krupinski Coal Mine. It is the decision of the board, the state as ministers, as the Ministry, that you have confirmed the liquidation of this mine. Tell me what amount is allocated from the state budget to liquidate this mine. Another question. Well, in this group of capital, we have 11 entities in the Coal Company. You can say that there's only a bank missing, because we have food, we have environmental protection, we have health care, we have insurance, the bank is short of money going somewhere. At the Vistula Tourist Agency we have a seven-member supervisory board in an insurance company - an eight-member supervisory board. Tell me, Minister, because there have already been general assemblies, in June and July, you have conducted these activities, you have introduced new people, you have adjusted whether you have made any changes in these supervisory boards, whether you will restrict these supervisory boards... [[On your own.]] ...will you even begin restructuring the Coal Company as a non-góric entity, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which does not produce coal, but other services that should earn themselves. Question: "What is the financial condition of 11 entities concentrated in the Coal Company?" Thank you very much. I would also like to ask for a written reply. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u117	Mr. Piotr Pyzik will ask you a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u118	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to ask you the following... [[The finger guy.]] [[It's from the middle.]] Minister! I'm sorry. I would like to ask the following question: Is it justified to increase the amount related to the limit of budgetary expenditure resulting from the Act on the Functioning of Coal Mining in 2015 and 2018 to PLN 7 billion? Please state your reasons. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Now he should keep his hands in his pocket.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u119	Thank you. Mrs Ewa Malik.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u120	A question for the Minister. In view of some comments, reservations about the financial policy of the Coal Company, I would like to ask the Minister whether any of the measures contained in the bill submitted, which I had the pleasure of presenting on behalf of the committee today, have anything in common, in any way, with the implementation of the task plan for the Coal Company. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u121	Thank you. Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u122	Mr. Marshal! I'll start with Piaseczna, a mine mine mine - probably only for a short period of time, because we're introducing funding for a transitional period. The second issue, extremely important, concerning PLN 7 billion. This is not a question to the Minister, this is not a question to the Member who tabled this amendment, this is a question to the Prime Minister. Why are you trying to get past this bill all the way to work on the state budget? That's one thing. Secondly, you do not give any information as to how this money will be spent. Why? It's not just a matter of miners and mining companies, it's a matter of all Poles. Poles should know - in Podkarpacie, Podlasie, Pomerania - how money is spent. The state has shown exceptional arrogance by not showing these expenses, not indicating how they will be monitored, because if you have a majority on this committee, you think you're allowed to do so. It's important that the Poles know that. You give extra money, you don't tell anybody about it - you don't talk about it on the budget, you don't talk about it on the committee that reviews the project, the project we're talking about, and you don't tell the Poles. Or maybe it'd be worth it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Reasonably plan expenditures and speak fairly to Poles, not the way you try to speak. That is the question to the Prime Minister: Why are you filming? Why don't you tell the Poles the truth? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u123	Mr Zdzisław Gawlik will ask the question. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u124	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, the restructuring process itself of any company is very complex and at the same time very, very expensive. For my part, I would like to thank the Minister that, in the course of his work in committee, some of the solutions that were proposed, in the direction of abolishing State control over the disposal of property by his daughter's companies, were removed, that the government had resigned from these proposals, because this is some progress from the point of view of the necessary restructuring of this company. I wanted to refer to those statements that came here, to the issue of this Christmas tree of companies that are suspended from the Coal Company. Minister, if we're looking for money for restructuring, and that costs money, why don't we start looking for this money by giving up capital engagement in these companies? If the Coal Company is the dominant company in 11 companies, many of them would certainly benefit. If it doesn't do any good, then other measures will have to be taken to abandon the involvement in these companies. What's with the broker company? After all, broker services are needed and widely available. Why a company that is leading PKD in the field of bookbinding services? What's the point of a mining company doing gastronomy, tourist services? [[♪ The bell ♪]] This can effectively be achieved by outsourcing these services - I think it is also for the benefit of the company. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u125	Thank you. Mrs Monika Rosa, Modern Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u126	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! There is a lot of uncertainty about the situation in the mines in Silesia, and now we have this information about increasing the budget and spending to 7 billion. I would like to ask the Minister exactly what mines and plants the government plans to transfer to the SRK by the end of this year and in 2017 and what is the schedule of expenditure, the 7 billion PLN that you are planning. I'd like to know exactly what the money's going to be for and how long. Ladies and gentlemen, are you looking for private investors who could invest in the mining industry, in mines, so as not to invest only from the portfolio of companies of the Treasury? What's the plan to find such investors if he's obviously functioning? I also have a question about organisations that represent employees: Do you have such conversations, or, as I say, employees in a situation of surprise will find out that the mine goes to SRK? Thank you very much and also ask for a written reply. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u127	I would like to ask Mrs Margaret Navel.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u128	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Act provides for an increase from PLN 3 billion to PLN 7 billion in the restructuring of the mining industry, i.e. the liquidation of mines and the restructuring of the employment of persons from the liquidated plants. The amount of PLN 7 billion is the maximum limit of expenditure. The information provided by the Deputy Minister of Energy shows that the interest of miners in voluntary departure is high and shows an upward trend. Therefore, I have questions: Has this issue been analysed? Have the trends and trends regarding the interest of miners in the possibility of voluntary departure been examined? How will the miners be developed, or will they have work in the future? On what basis was the maximum expenditure of PLN 7 billion calculated? Has there already been a timetable for the liquidation and restructuring of mines, since we have a concrete amount, since the amount is PLN 7 billion? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u129	Please take the floor of Mrs Lydia Gądek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u130	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! 4 billion PLN - it would seem that quite little, given that by 60 billion in 6 months we increased the deficit, the increase in debt, and this concerns a very important sector of the economy, mining. Therefore, it could be said: not so much again. But, Minister, Poles, despite appearances, are very interested in spending the Polish budget, and above all the consequences of these expenses. We gave 200 million zlotys a year for medicines for seniors, a little over 200 million zlotys, and in this way we want to save poor Poles from not buying prescriptions, and here as much as 4 billion. So I have a question, and so as not to make life difficult for the Minister today, I ask you to answer in writing. What will the additional PLN 4 billion be allocated for? So the whole schedule of expenses. How much strictly for so-called. modernisation and restructuring? In these words you can actually fit everything. How much will it cost to handle fired and restructuring mines? How much is there for a daughter's company, which, as we already know, is a whole lot? But, most importantly, I would like to know, my constituents too, not only the individual amounts, but also the consequences that you anticipate for every gold you spend. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u131	Thank you. And please take the floor of Mr Jack Protasiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u132	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Not being a member of the Committee on Energy and the Treasury, I did not participate in the debate, in the drafting of the bill, which was reported here. But when I take part in this debate, listening to this one here in this House, I must say that I am amazed at the information in which sloppy and express manner the work was carried out in the committee on the bill, which concerns spending in the order of several, I understand, PLN 7 billion, including the sudden increase of this amount by the parliamentary amendment by 3 billion, right, from 4 to 7, as I understand it. I am even more surprised that you, Minister, do not refer to these questions at all, that you do not take the floor and explain to the Members such an appalling point. I hope to see this explanation in a moment, as well as the answer to the question that I will now ask. Whether an increase in mining expenditure of 3 billion will mean that the government will not deliver on the promise that the Prime Minister has made as a candidate in Lubin before KGHM's headquarters, That the government will withdraw from the mining tax for this combo? These are approximately comparable amounts, and I'm guessing that if it adds up here, it needs to be picked up somewhere, and it's starting to explain to me why the government is coming to this promise, your government is coming up to you. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Like a hedgehog dog. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u133	And you will be the last to speak by Mr Włodzimierz Karpiński. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u134	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! First of all, I would like to see the Minister confirm or deny it, because unfortunately, the development, continuation of the ungrateful, so as not to say the disgraceful, slogan that Poland is in ruins, has also taken place during this debate by stating one of the Members who supports the government that, among other things, there is a dramatic situation. Energy. This energy in a dramatic situation, Minister, please confirm, this is the construction of the most modern generation capacity in Europe, the most ecological, most efficient, in Jaworzno, Turów, Opole, Kozienice, I will mention only a few of the largest, that is the completion of the construction of the gasport, which frees Poland from supply from the eastern direction, that is the construction of almost 1500 km of gas highways that connect us to the gas transport system in Europe etc. This is the case in this area, Mr President, the ruins in the energy sector. As for the issue that we are discussing today, Minister, you voted very violently against the bill, which you are today, in February 2015, with great emphase. He's updating. You're changing the amount of $3 billion, not really you, but your Member. Aren't you ashamed that you, as a representative of the government, are presenting a solution to the government that is subject to an inter-ministerial consultation? [[♪ The bell ♪]] analysis of restructuring expenditure, and in fact decommissioning and shielding activities in the hard coal mining sector, an amount of 3 billion, and within 5 minutes, as a representative of the government, you say in the committee of the Member who reports, virtually not at all, 120% more money that the government agrees? It's just obscene. [[It is up to the government to present a position.]] Don't you feel that this is a matter of elementary decency? Because it's all... I see, there were many Members here...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u135	Mr President, time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u136	...a lot of legitimate questions. But tell me: What happened that you protested so violently in February 2015?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u137	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u138	And today, in five minutes, you're gonna snap your fingers and raise the amount by $4 billion? Thank you, and I'm sorry. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u139	Thank you very much, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, the list of persons enrolled in the questions has been exhausted. I would like the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy of Minister Grzegorz Tobiszowski. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u140	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for all the speeches, the hard ones, the ones asking questions, because this - I understand - is expressing concern about coal, about the problem of restructuring, about reform. I understand Members who have never been in the government and may not know the details, because there are indeed some issues that may escape from parliamentary work. But, Minister Karpiński, you know the details of the situation in which you left the energy companies. I'm not talking about the fact that they're in ruins, but you know that not all the data can be given because they're stock companies - the Renaissance isn't there. And I think... Let's argue and discuss, but let's be serious because we're bound to do something. I'm not going to talk about whether I'm embarrassed or not. No, because, Minister, you also know what was in mining, that all the companies were in liquidation. As you say to me about shame, in these ten months, I sympathize with your well-being, my dear, because I understand others who didn't know the data, but we used to talk about how you ruled, and I warned. [[But please don't yell.]] I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I have such a manly voice, so truly, you know, solid, forgive me, like a real man. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] I'll keep it down. [[I'm a real woman, too, and I hate screaming.]] I'll keep it down. It wasn't screaming. It was, I think, a solid voice of such a real man. [[Joy in the Chamber]] So, Minister, I think... [[We can tell the difference.]] [[Voice from the courtroom: And the marshal doesn't think...]] Member, may I continue? May I? Thank you. Minister, may I suggest that we hold a closed committee hearing if you'd like... [[I'd love to.]] ...as was the case with the Material Reserve Agency - and I am about to reply to that to the Member - and then we will clarify the details. I have a favor to ask. We can argue, but let's not talk about shame, because this is the last phrase that can fall from this speaker by people who have been managing energy and mining for eight years, really, believe me. And don't force this kind of discussion because we have a difficult situation. Of course, Minister Czerwinski, thank you for speaking. I would really like to have the opposition's support, too, because I believe that the restructuring reform project is difficult. That is why I will try to be as substantive as I can to answer. On the other hand, if we are talking about shame, about this kind of wording, then, ladies and gentlemen, it is not serious about this issue. Mr Protasiewicz's speech, in a row, in the back - I do not understand what sloppyness we are talking about, because from what I recall well, the project was submitted before the holiday break, so whoever wanted to get acquainted... But I see that the Member has left. He asked a question... Oh, sorry, you're here. You know, and on the committee, we've justified... Even when it comes to some reflections that fell from the opposition, we thought that it would actually go in another project. So we've worked hard for this time. I think there was also time to analyze what was submitted. And there's a big revolution, folks, there's nothing I'm about to tell you, because the amount may actually be huge, but if we put together some issues, it doesn't paralyze, believe me. And now that you're comparing KGHM... Well, ladies, let's make a deal, one thing - it has nothing to do with it. After all, KGHM is not even under the Ministry of Energy and this de facto goes completely from another pool, it is spread over the next years. I'll tell you why... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Please? [[This is a government project, not a minister of Tobiszowski.]] Dear lady, yes, but this does not concern KGHM, Madam Member. In case you don't know, I'm reminding you there's no KGHM in this. [[But I do.]] Thank you. So that I think that your statement was indeed a matter of concern, but it does not necessarily correspond to the power of this law. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, as far as the Coal Company is concerned, thank you very much for these questions concerning the Coal Company. But, folks from the Platform, do you know that you guys are the ones who left this structure? We didn't change anything there, for God's sake! I don't know if you know those 11 mines were with all these entities. We haven't set up a single subject. I didn't reduce, as supervision, not one supervisory board, even that we didn't replace some people at all. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[But what are you...]] All I want to say to you is that it's good that you're talking about it, because look now - 11 mines and catering entities were together. How could that be? And all these years, you guys have tolerated it. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[The platform didn't have...]] We have moved 11 mines today - no, sir, 23, only 11 - to... [[Now.]] 'Cause we're only in charge now. After all, you've been in charge for eight years, as I recall. So... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Then tell me what...]] ...we moved... Mr. Marshal, could I ask you to...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u141	Excuse me, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, you had time to ask a question... [[We could...]] ...please don't interrupt or argue with the Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Grzegorz Tobiszowski: As far as the company is concerned, folks, here's the deal. The Coal Company has been shaped as all the remaining entities that have remained with their debts and commitments - so you know that. That is why we have excluded 11 mines to the Polish Coal Group, so that there is an entity that can only deal with coal mining and not have these insurance companies, tourist companies, those which emerged over the years. I don't understand why you resent us. It's not like the Ministry has created any new entity. The truth is that we are standing, because it has only recently been selected in the competition a new board and this new board will prepare the program as soon as the Coal Company will continue to function, because indeed, and it is true, we have to do something with this entity, because there is too much distraction, from repair companies, from companies that prepare mining works, to insurance companies, tourist company. This is ahead of us. But I would very much ask you not to complain about it, because after all, we started the process, we are organizing it, and you were holding it for eight years. So don't blame us for something you couldn't do. This is ridiculous. And now what is it about these measures? Coal Company was created - and I have already said this, but I will remind you - from Rudzka Spółka Węglowa, Bytomska Spółka Węglowa, Nadwiślańska Spółka Węglowa, Gliwice Spółka Węglowa, Rybicki Spółka Węglowa. From all these companies the Coal Company was established, with the whole company environment. And what did it turn out to be? That over the years, when the Coal Company was formed, some mines ceased to function, like the Polish Wirek mine, like other mines, and mining damage was created after the operation of these mines. They're in the Coal Company today. And that's what the special reserve is for. Now it's just that these measures are, we don't give them anything, they've been available for years. I mean, you guys did, too. We're not changing anything. Only after the Ministry of Energy was established and the Polish Górnicza Group was established, should now be attributed to the Coal Company these old damages. [[Why?]] The SRK deals, ladies and gentlemen, with the liquidation and technical closure of what has affected today, like Kazimierz-Juliusz... [[He can remove the damage.]] That's why there's an amendment to this bill. And there's no revelation, no finesse, no subtext. This is a matter of order. Now, ladies and gentlemen, about 7 billion, I would like to tell you that it is not stated that it is precisely about 7. Why do we say up to 7 billion? Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that we are taking advantage of some of the solutions that you have adopted, because it is difficult today - and even last year, the notifications were made in Brussels - to turn everything upside down with a bill that you actually voted on. And you guys, I don't know if you remember... [[You guys stopped.]] But listen to me now. It was your decision, you assumed it would be PLN 3 billion. And show me when you voted on the 3 billion issue in detail. I'm going to tell you today: more than you did when the 3 billion were voted out. And I will tell you why and why 7 billion PLN. I don't understand this rebellion, this causing some anxiety, some amazing revelations. After all, we're up to 7 billion... Why are we increasing it? Ladies and gentlemen, since today, as a result of your decisions - I am not saying that bad ones - have already been spent 1700 million PLN, we have less than 1300 million, and some issues are running. And today... Is Krupinski here? Well, maybe... I would give you this so you can see the scale of the phenomenon. Because we think that if it goes through some of the mine to the SRK, it's gonna be expenses actually going down to 5 and 10 million. No, that's never happened. Elimination, even mining parts - these are tens of millions. Mrs Pietraszewska mentioned that we are eliminating the Peace mine. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not eliminating the Peace mine. Please do not introduce such rhetorical structures, because we all know that part of the mine Room in the form of a conversion passes to the Company for Restructuring of Mines, of course with the employees we ask who have the opportunity to use our, but also your regulations. [[Why do they go through companies?]] We asked people who wanted to go to early retirement... I would like to say to you - because I am also replying right away to Mrs Navel, who asked what are the criteria - that when it comes to criteria, it is that we are addressing the workers who want, with the transition of the technical part to the SRK, to retire early. They can go, it's four years ahead. Ladies and gentlemen, in this room we have postponed the deadline, 2019 will be another year when it is possible to leave for appropriate checks, for appropriate leave. This means that we have more costs, because more people can leave in a mild, efficient way, after talking to the social side. We are in constant dialogue with the social side, which I would like to emphasise. And it turns out that more people than we planned want to take advantage of voluntary departures, briefings. We don't have to disturb them, ladies and gentlemen, because they're going to early retirement. They just choose to quit the business. And there isn't even a expectation, will or desire that we build them a new profession. Otherwise, we do not offer such programs. Now, ladies and gentlemen, let me say this: the truth is that it is planned next year - I'm talking about Krupinski - to draw out these deposits of energy coal that are to be drained. Then we will talk to the social side, when - in April or June or in September - Krupiński mine would move to SRK. And now, on the basis of the Krupiński mine, I am showing what amounts are needed for it to move to the SRK and there it could technically be closed, including all checks. [[Eliminate.]] We are talking about PLN 407 million. And there's gonna be a part of the Room Mine that's gonna come down. We know that Jas-Mos is coming down. We also know that some of the individual mines from Rybnicki, for example from Rydultów, the technical part, will go away. Ladies and gentlemen, these are hundreds of millions. That's why we're here today, knowing because we're... We created the right program, because if it wasn't, we wouldn't know that we need maybe 7 billion. It may not be necessary to spend them. But, ladies and gentlemen, if we are to present to the European Union the position that we have a programme, that we are passing on the technical part - and this is something that I was talking about from this speaker - that we will maintain for four years the amount of leave payments and at the same time secure technically what is already in the SRK and what is now being passed on to SRK, then we have to do a simulation. We have this simulation. That's why we have an amount of order, unfortunately, about 7 billion. It's not precise, because we might not be able to get over it. On the other hand, how can we propose to workers in the social dialogue to switch to appropriate checks without financial security in the budget? How do we do that? And it's not about one budget, it's about a whole process that, in fact... In 2019 the last group will undergo appropriate checks. I am surprised to see you questioning the fact that we want to secure this difficult social process in a calm, rational way, because it seemed to me - at least I have this conviction - that you also care that we should restructure this mining. And calling it up and saying that we still want to eliminate something, that we don't keep our word... The state wanted to show by force that no, restructuring of mining cannot succeed in Poland. After all, it is in our common Polish interest, it is in our common interest. I don't understand why you're trying to create such a mood that someone is lying, should be ashamed, outrageous. What outrage is this about? That we're planning to carry out a certain cycle? [[Not that you're doing anything else.]] Let me put it this way: there may not be any spectacular events, but you have to say one thing. Was the stock exchange wrong, that from PLN 8,20 when we embraced governments, the price of shares of the hawk company speeded to PLN 46? Show me the second company in Poland in recent years, in the hard coal sector, during the restructuring which achieved this result. [[Applause]] So? We stock market investors forced us to buy shares? Ladies and gentlemen, these are objective considerations. [[Joy in the Chamber]] So I'd really like to talk you into it, and I'd really like to ask you... We're in the middle of a trial, there's nothing to celebrate tonight, I'm not in euphoria. But you have to acknowledge, we deal with this much better than you do. [[By doing this?]] And I would ask you very much, too, because it is in our common interest, not to cause concern in people, or to say that you will eliminate. Ladies and gentlemen, for example, what often appears here: you are eliminating. Ladies and gentlemen, what are we taking out? That's what I said from that lecturer, and what did I change? Why do you say I suddenly turned around? No. Did I say we wouldn't talk about SRK in the context of the Krupinski mine? Did I ever say that the Silesia mine is not transferred to the SRK because of security issues? Didn't I say that? Only, ladies and gentlemen, style is different, style is diametrically different, qualitatively different: truth, conversation, consistency, determination and idea. Believe me. [[And holding on to the mouth of the union.]] And that's what you have to respect. I understand that we can struggle, and I thank you for caring about 4 billion here, because of this, of course, we have to confess. But don't tell me there's no information. Don't tell me, 'cause that's the kind of information you've never had in terms of hard coal. And now I'm going to tell you about the brown one because one of your messengers is here... [[What did she do?]] Well, what would you say, what would you say? The previous government has made a decision, ask the ministers who were in the previous government, or I may deliver this document: 2030 - the decommissioning of the brown coal sector. It's over, it's gone. And today, while we're in charge, you're asking me about Occlusion. On the other hand, it is right, Mr President, to ask the government, because to the Minister of Agriculture and not to the Minister of Energy, but there is indeed a subject. Only, sir, if the concept of the former coal decommissioning government in 2030 were implemented, what details would we be talking about? [[Stone?]] Brown coal, brown coal, because there was a question about brown coal. Ladies and gentlemen, there are official government documents regarding the decision that the brown man is disappearing from the face of the earth. Today I want to say this: And what does this government do? This government has appointed from the social side, among the representatives, experts from the brown coal sector, representatives of the managers in the brown sector - a team at the Ministry of Energy, which is working on a programme for the hard coal sector. [[But where, what document?]] The team will prepare appropriate proposals at the end of November, the end of the year. We are going to think about what we have here, because we have here a climate package that makes the hard coal sector really difficult, and that is also a challenge for this government. But look: we're planning some investments, we're trying to base them... [[But what kind of document is that?]] Minister, there he is. [[No.]] Really, believe me, there are decisions within the framework of the Ministry, and I will deliver a document, as you will allow, by 2030, the brown coal investment plans were anticipated. You can check it out. [[There's no physical possibility.]] Minister, I said, I'm able to pass this along, and I'll continue. I really don't want this kind of polemic because I don't blame you because it's not your decision, it's really not your decision. Now, ladies and gentlemen, as far as private investors are concerned, this applies inter alia. Makoszowy mine, we've announced a contest and a tender. If there is an investor, there are those who want to actually enter privately, it is about Polish mines, they have the opportunity to purchase Makoszowy mines, and so we are also trying to ask the market if there is any interest in buying Makoszowy mines. From this, from the information they reach me, it follows that several foreign investors are considering the possibility of investing in Poland, while they have not applied for a licence yet, such a licence is considered. This is, among other things. with us in the Silesian Voivodeship, somewhere in the Mysłowice region. This, however, is in the process for the time being, and I am unable to say what the further behaviour of these companies and those investors who are interested in the hard coal sector will be. Now, ladies and gentlemen, indeed, what should this 400 million, 4 billion additionally be assigned to? For the technical part, when it comes to disconnecting individual parts of mines which must be secured, they must be closed in a professional manner. For example, the Kazimierz-Juliusz mine, which is in this process, has been transferred to the SRK, and it is still relatively active today, because it is not so that we turn out the light - we need to secure this part of the city, technically. Two: it will be briefings, and it will be briefings not for a year, but for four years. These are the right social issues and gratifications for those who leave immediately, not on vacations, and get briefings. And it's all in this amount of up to 7 billion, which is why we're increasing it so that we can... Now imagine that we're going to the social side and we're saying, "Oh, yeah, this company is leaving so much. And the question is, do you have a four-year security policy? And what am I supposed to say then that we don't? Then why didn't you speak to the Sejm about it? That's why I'm doing this. And why did we just do that now? Because we established the Polish Mining Group and only now the board could start the restructuring process. Ano Jastrzębska company on 29 August signed appropriate agreements with financial institutions and entered into the restructuring process strongly, so it is now beginning the transfer of Jas-Mosu and the discussion is about Krupinski. Because Katowice Holding Coal has a new board of directors and the new board has made a balance sheet, and the new board has submitted it to us that it is worse than we thought, because they were talking about 30 million, and today they are talking about 700. And that's why there's this question that there's been an analysis. I am very grateful to the members of the Law and Justice Club that, having this information, they have requested these funds in committee for their concern about this process. So that I thank you very much as Deputy Minister of Energy and I bow to the fact that there was this activity and sense of the problem that we should have worked out. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of this year, the transfer of the relevant assets will begin. And imagine now, because you often talk about anxiety, about the fact that employees want to know, and imagine that we won't secure the resources. And that would be hilarious, wouldn't it? You didn't see it coming. You're not prepared. Then she'd be a mess. So I'm showing that the point of up to 7 billion, because I want to be precise: up to 7 billion is due to discretion, rationality and planning. [[I'm swinging.]] And I also want to tell you that it is often said this: there is no programme. Ladies and gentlemen, you must first have entities such as Jastrzębska, like the Polish Górnicza Group and Katowice Holding Coal, which can be managed naturally. What do I mean, naturally managed? Well, first, you have to get them back on their feet so the board can make decisions not to be in bankruptcy. Ladies and gentlemen, for God's sake, it was not us who put these companies into bankruptcy. I hope that in the committee, and in the closed committee, I will be able to show in detail Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa, Polish Mining Group. In detail, because today the stock market doesn't even allow me to say certain things from the platform. Then you'll see what we've been running from. Because it's also dishonest that, knowing how it was, you ask questions, saying it like we've ruined something. I just want to say this, ladies and gentlemen: thanks to great effort, determination and just a vision, we can say today that we have a perspective in the hard coal sector and we are in the process. I emphasize this very strongly, we are in the process. There's no coupon cutting tonight. I hope that next year, if we get to meet here in autumn, we can talk about an orderly sales market, about certain systemic activities. Ladies and gentlemen, we have recently prepared a regulation with other ministries, 1,000 pages, which will save us half a billion resources in the hard coal sector. Someone's gonna say, "Well, mercy, regulation." Yeah, but why hasn't anyone prepared this before, why are we just doing it today and it's unnoticeable? Come on, the bill's being prepared. The question about the tax was whether we were preparing any relief. This is a problem because it is a question of the Ministry of Finance, it is a question of local governments and other entities that draw from fees and danin in the hard coal sector. Ladies and gentlemen, we are also talking about a difficult bill - she should already be, I am aware of it - about the anti-emission law so that we can protect the Polish market from the influx of coal from the outside. But as you know, we are not in a vacuum, we must also have consent, we must notify it in Brussels, because it is a tax regulation, it is not easy. But I hope that in September, at the beginning of October, we will have a certain shape and we will be able to prepare it in some way. Now someone's telling me I spoke in March, June... I was talking about the deputy, I said until June, precisely, check it out. The law at the Ministry of Energy was prepared, went to interministerial arrangements. We're talking about almost 400 million zlotys, and that's where it came from. When did it happen? When there was a union citizen's initiative, OPZZ, when we were talking about a deputy here. Today we have addressed this because of requests for public consultation and I understand that after the public consultation this project will return and together with the citizens' project will be discussed together. So I just wanted to say that the Ministry of Energy, on behalf of which I have performed here, has fulfilled my obligation, and we are in the process of fulfilling what came from this speaker. I was talking about the Coal Company. I think... As regards the Material Reserve Agency, I would like to remind Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak that we had a closed sitting. Why is the committee sitting closed? Because it concerns the Material Reserve Agency, the special purpose agencies, we presented it and the state in the committee you had the opportunity in detail, in detail, to get to know the first time in the history of the Sejm, of course, since 1989, how the Material Reserve Agency operates. We've given you all possible amounts, so please don't tell me there was no information. And I don't want to cause an intervention on the cattle market from the previous period. I would really like to ask you not to bring this up. There's a place where we could... It also came out on the committee what flowers we had there, but let's not go back to that, let's just leave it. This is actually a bit about a particular destiny for the agency, and as we need to, we will again come with the whole group, with the president, with the directors of the various parts of the reserve agency, because, as you know, it is not about not informing you, but we just need to maintain a certain seriousness of the information. What else was there? I don't think by mentioning... Oh, it was, Mr. Marek Kwitek asked about the melioration system and the creation of a recreation centre from Machov. I would like to point out that, now that we have decided that we are taking over as the Ministry of Energy the obligation to carry out these works and to finance them, we are also now carrying out such a deeper analysis as the melioration work needs to be taken over, because it is only now that the Ministry takes over. I think that we are also ahead of a decision that must be taken over these four years, by 2020, about taking over for example - and here I am saying: for example, because we are considering this - by the Company for Restructuring of Mines of this entity, which today manages this area. I think that after working out this programme on melioration, as well as on the plans of the recreation centre... This has to happen by 2020, with a decision probably later to move and manage this through the SRK. Why wasn't that before? It's hard for me to answer that. However, I must recognise that actually the work on this project has been done in previous governments, it has regularly appeared somewhere, while we have used some records, something that we have improved, clarified, and today you have a project. This topic, on this social issue, because it actually triggers certain emotions and self-governments, and residents, I think we have a regulated one. I wouldn't want to agree with the fact that someone in this government has solved this program as if it were. No, he finally solved it properly, solidly, and I think it's important to accept it because if someone hasn't made it in eight years, and someone did it in 10 months, at least it's important to keep it quiet if you don't thank them. [[Applause]] For the rest of your questions... Some asked for an answer, I'll prepare it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Correction, Marshal, correction.]] Relax, sir. The corrigendum was requested by Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, but was not mentioned by name... [[I was.]] It wasn't, it wasn't. None of the ladies and gentlemen of the House were mentioned by name. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a request... [[I was.]] But take it easy. We have a 1.5-hour delay, and during the Minister's speech, you were discussing the current dispute with the Minister. I therefore ask the rapporteur of the committee, Ms Ewa Malik, to speak. All of them... [[Mr. Marshal, the Minister has just confirmed that he has argued with me, yes. Mr. Marshal, give me...]] [[Mr. Marshal, he started with the polemics with me.]] And if you took your hand out of your pocket, Minister, that would be nice. [[I'm sorry.]] The names weren't mentioned. [[Voice from the room: But they weren't...]] [[Voice from the hall: Names were.]] The Minister admits that Mr Karpiński and Mr Protasiewicz were mentioned by name. In light of the above... [[With a formal application.]] Member, please, with a formal proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u142	Dear Marshal, With a formal application. The Minister did not understand all the questions and did not answer any of the questions asked. We were talking about a precise explanation of how this additional 4 billion PLN will be used by the state. The Minister said things in general... [[The voice from the room: He was talking about it. We heard it.]] ...it's a written response to extra expenses, 4 billion PLN. [[Voice from the room: We heard!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u143	Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u144	Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Well done, Member.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u145	I also thank you for this exhaustive provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm for a formal request. Please, in the procedure of correcting the Minister... [[Me first. That's what we agreed.]] You're welcome. One minute to corrigendum.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u146	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! First of all, I'm aware that it was processed in an energy committee that I'm not a member of. Because the terms overlap, I did not participate in this, but, in short, I referred to the words of the Members who described this sloppy, express mode of proceding such a serious bill of such a great amount. That's point one. Point two. I am aware that KGHM is not subject to the Ministry of Energy, but to the Ministry of the Treasury, but the budget is one, and since after 10 months and even a year after Mrs Beata Szydło's submission, then the candidate for the Prime Minister, the promise that in the first place the tax on fossils and KGHM will be released from it - after 10 months - the work has not even started... So I'm asking if this is exactly the consequence of this -- that you're going to finance mining in this express mode. Thirdly, while respecting your energy, you have a lot more power than your boss, and it's actually the right place... [[Voice from the room: This is the Minister of Energy, so what?]] ...the competent Ministry where you sit - I would like to say that the increase in the price of shares of listed companies on the Warsaw Stock Exchange is a result not of restructuring activities, but of recapitalisation and increase in the price of coal. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Voice from the hall: Well, who recapitalized it?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u147	Mr Włodzimierz Karpiński, as corrected. One minute. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Mr Karpinski, take your place and allow Mr Karpinski to speak. [[Citizens will pay the price of energy.]] [[Yes, citizens will pay the price of energy for it.]] [[With that hand, it wasn't disrespectful.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u148	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a classic misunderstanding by the Minister of my speech. Minister, I will refer to the energy companies very briefly. When I left the office, the value of the value of the Treasury companies on the Warsaw Stock Exchange, i.e. an objective measure, was almost PLN 110 billion, and for six months this year it was PLN 80 billion, so that when it comes to... and a powerful investment programme in the energy sector, which you know well. On the other hand, speaking of shame - I respect you too much and our discussions on various issues, also economic ones - I am talking about such a dual shame, on the one hand politically: with zeal for a better case, you have attacked our bill, which today you are just, you can say, crawling - very much indeed, but crawling. So this political shame, that's what I asked you. It happens in this room very often. And on the other hand, it's an embarrassment to a civil servant, [[♪ The bell ♪]] who, within 5 minutes, accepts the amendment to 4 billion on behalf of the government. In my opinion, this should be done after an inter-ministerial consultation - as a government project. That's what I'm talking about. I didn't mean to touch you personally. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u149	Thank you very much. Member with a motion? [[Formal conclusion.]] I am counting on a formal request, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u150	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to make a formal request that you correct the information you have provided to this House on the fact that, as far as brown coal is concerned, the energy policy of the previous government should have a ceiling by 2030. How possible, since the Polish energy policy in force until 2035, was adopted by the government of the Civic Platform and PSL and there was an energy mix in which brown coal had...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u151	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u152	...more value than even coal in terms of energy to the system? I'm asking you to correct that, especially if you're talking now... That's what we've been working on until 2050, not to...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u153	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u154	Yes, Mr. Marshal?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u155	I'm gonna give my diet to a charity that you're gonna point out, provided you give me the rule of law to the Sejm, which will justify that the monologue you're making is a formal motion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u156	But I think, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm sure the Minister would be interested to correct that. [[It's a good habit, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u157	Thank you very much. And I ask you to take the floor of the committee rapporteur... [[Voice from the room: Minister wanted to answer.]] Excuse me, Minister. You're welcome. Excuse me, miss. Minister Tobiszowski in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u158	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Speaker! If you don't mind, we'll send you a proper document. Energy policy by 2050, the role of energy by 2030... [[Voice from the Chamber: What was passed in this House?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u159	Gentlemen... Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Grzegorz Tobiszowski: I'll send the footage. Thank you very much. [[Voice from the courtroom: But what was passed, Minister...]] Ladies and gentlemen, please allow the rapporteur of the committee, Ms Malik, to take the floor, which I would very much like to ask to speak. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u160	Mr. Marshal! Membership! Minister! Thank you very much. In this last word - but only today - I would like to thank all the Members, as well as the Minister for a very lively discussion, for the fact that we have been able to exhaust the subject in such detail, although we are moving today... I invite everyone to lean over two amendments that have been made: one Civic Platform, the other modern club. I cordially invite you to forward this emotional debate to the Committee on Energy and the Treasury - today at 3 p.m. 16. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Very nice. Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u161	Thank you very much, Member. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Commission for Energy and the Treasury in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending certain laws defining the conditions for conducting innovative activities (print No 789). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education of Mr Piotr Dardziński to present the justification for the project. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u162	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour and pleasure to present a draft law on the amendment of certain laws defining the conditions for conducting innovative activities, sometimes called the small or first law on innovation, which is a proposal for changes which Polish entrepreneurs expect and which allows them to expand their innovative activities. The bill is the result of teamwork - board and team for: innovation. It is also unique in the sense that two ministries were appointed to present the position of the government, because the Ministry of Finance, represented by Minister Leszek Skiba, is also attached to the Ministry of Science and Higher Education. Two sentences, briefly, before I talk about the project itself. Two sentences on the strategy in which it was prepared. I mentioned that this project is referred to as the first draft of the Innovation Act. By the end of the year, we would like to prepare the second Innovation Act. Why did we divide this legislative process into two parts? This is a natural question that is probably born in your heads. The answer is: because we wanted to introduce these solutions as quickly as possible, which have a common consensus mainly in business environments, but also in the government itself, Prime Minister Beata Szydło. These are solutions that can make it easier for entrepreneurs to invest in R &amp; D in a clear and fast way. It is about cooperation between economic operators and Polish universities. That's why we wanted to make a quick change. At the same time, we had a broad consultation which would result in a White Paper to be presented by the end of this month, and by the end of the year we would like to prepare this second, larger law on innovation. What is the content of the project that I have the honour to present to the High House? Firstly, these are issues relating to tax solutions. It abolishes permanent taxation of income tax on the import of intellectual and industrial property, which is brought into companies by universities, but not only by universities. This solution exists in the current legal state, while it is limited temporarily to the years 2016 and 2017. We would like to show Polish entrepreneurs that the strategy to support innovative businesses, i.e. innovative enterprises, is a long-term strategy, not a short-term test, hence the abolition of this time limit. Secondly, the Act includes an increase in the amount of the deduction of costs for R &amp; D activities and an extension of the list of costs mainly by the expenditure associated with the patenting process or the registration and protection of intellectual property. Entrepreneurs will be able to reduce their tax burden if they invest in R &amp; D. At the same time, they will be able to qualify for these R &amp; D activities, including those related to the protection of intellectual property. We would like the activity of recording this property to be much greater on the side of entrepreneurs and scientists. These amounts, these write-down thresholds are raised, and I'm not going to go into details right now. It's going to be about twice as much as the current state. Thirdly, we are extending the scope for deduction of costs for R &amp; D. In the current legal situation there is a limit of 3 years in which these write-downs can be applied. Entrepreneurs and scientists have generally pointed out that, in the case of innovative projects, not only innovative but long-term, we are dealing very often with a situation in which there is no income in the short term, it is not possible to apply these write-downs, because the company is simply in a period where it is still waiting for potential profits. Therefore, we extend this period from 3 to 6 years. As an alternative to long waiting for a return, we offer companies a write-off, a cash refund. This cash refund will only be for new entrepreneurs, up to 2 years from the moment of registering business, i.e. for so-called. Start-ups. This is a solution that we would particularly like to dedicate to those who start their business. That is why I said that this is an alternative solution, because the trader himself will decide whether, in a situation where no write-off is possible due to the above mentioned lack of income or lack of income, he will be able to benefit from a cash refund of 18% or 19% - it depends on the system in which it is accounted for - whether it will wait for 6 years for possible income to apply a 100% write-down which is guaranteed in the first solution. Here I would like to draw your attention to the fact that these solutions proposed by us have their flexibility. They are addressed after consultation to different groups of entrepreneurs, they are a response to the needs that entrepreneurs have informed about. The second block of changes in this law are issues that concern changes in the field of science and higher education. In the public consultation, entrepreneurs often point out that they are looking for university partners who will be competent to speak the language of entrepreneurs about joint ventures. We wouldn't want to turn scientists into businessmen like we don't want to turn entrepreneurs into scientists. We would like people who are competent to understand both sides when it comes to this cooperation to come into contact with these two groups. That is why we want to dedicate some of the grants that are allocated to universities and research institutes to support research potential, to activities related to the commercialisation of research. This means that universities and research institutes will now be required to dedicate part of this grant to those persons or organisational units in their operation which are engaged in the commercialisation of research. This is a loud-sounding postulate that says that we need a professional staff that is capable of supporting scientists in cooperation with entrepreneurs. Secondly, the principles of management of research results for the defence and security of the state financed by the NCBR have been made more flexible. Currently, the results of such research are always taken over by the State Treasury. In this act, the Ministry of National Defence, for which we are very grateful, showed a much more flexible attitude and the situation will be such that only after the expression of interest by MON of the law will they pass to the Treasury. If the MON doesn't express any interest, the scientist will be able to commercialize these findings in the civil system. This information will be included in the contract to be signed by the trader by joining the grant implemented by the NCBR. The Ministry of National Defence will always have the right to reserve the possibility of a possible exclusive licence for these solutions. We are also making modifications, here is the issue of radical reduction of the various bureaucratic procedures associated with the so-called procedure. the patronage of scientists, i.e. the acquisition by them of property rights to inventions which were related to their responsibilities, whether at universities or at institutes. The situation at this point is that previous solutions have forced the university administration to remake all possible inventions that appear in their field of activity, not just those that have the potential to defy them. This in turn results in the extension of this process in the case of scientists who are waiting for the agreement of the university, because the documents are being processed, including those where there is no request for commercialization of research. Again, responding to the demands of universities and scientists, we reverse this procedure and we say: the university should deal with these proposals, where the scientist is interested in commercialisation in the first place, or actually exclusively. This is more or less a reversal of the proportion and a 95% reduction in the bureaucratic responsibilities of universities. Another element is to remove the time limit. Currently, we have a solution that works for up to 5 years when creators of inventions have shares in the benefits of commercialization. In a natural way... I have recently had the pleasure of taking part in a debate in the economic forum in Krynica, in which Mr KGHM's President was asked by the editor-in-chief of the Republic to say one recommendation to the Ministry, which should be made immediately to mobilise cooperation between science and business. The Chairman of the Skin said on second thought: "This must be worthwhile for scientists." That's the answer to the fact that it has to pay off to scientists. If we have limited commercialisation opportunities, benefit from commercialisation for up to 5 years, and as I said earlier, these benefits often appear much later, scientists are not motivated to approach these projects. It seems to us that this restriction is unjustified and that is why we are proposing that it be terminated. We are also increasing opportunities, and we are explaining in more detail a question of interpretation that exists today, which is related to how many special purpose vehicles a university or research institute may have. We clearly point out that it does not have to be one company, these special purpose companies may be more, which will also activate universities to cooperate with entrepreneurs. Other changes that no longer concern science and higher education, i.e. making the rules for public legal entities having infrastructure, including research, more flexible. Here in cases... You know, the laws relating to national property say that any possession of such property which exceeds a certain limit should be addressed to the Minister of the Treasury for permission to dispose of such property. We would like to allow the possibility for research institutes, PAS institutes or universities to take decisions without the approval of the Minister of the Treasury, unless these decisions concern issues which have consequences for more than 90 days. So if someone rents, rents up to 90 days, then they simply do not apply for permission, they can lease, share apparatus, research spaces, conference rooms, etc. etc. The last point is to enable financing of projects related to the implementation and operation of the environmental technology verification system from the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. This system allows to obtain internationally acceptable confirmation of the efficiency of the technological solution, which is related to the area of environmental protection. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The Act will enter into force 30 days after its publication, with the exception of tax provisions and those concerning the rules on the financing of science which will enter into force from 1 January 2017. Since this draft law contains, as I have mentioned, tax arrangements, we are obliged to maintain specific standards in the process of adopting them, which you know better than I, including the preservation of a long enough vacathio legis, in order to provide taxpayers with the opportunity to become familiar with the solutions they have adopted. Since these solutions should be known to entrepreneurs as soon as possible, and because they really expect these solutions, I will humbly and kindly ask the High House to proceed as quickly and as quickly as possible with this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u163	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Witold Czarnecki will be the first to speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u164	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present the position of my club on the government draft law amending certain laws defining the conditions for carrying out innovative activities, Parliamentary printing No. 789. I will start like this: the model of economic development of our country that has been implemented so far is subject to a serious risk of getting our economy trapped in the trap of average growth and cut product, which is why the aim of the proposed government law is to avoid these threats and remodel the Polish economy so that its competitiveness is much more based on innovation. High Izbo! I'm just gonna draw your attention to two things. The Europe 2020 strategy, which aims to prevent Europe from falling to the second line of its economy on the world market, calls for all EU countries to achieve 3% R &amp; D in 2020 GDP. In 2010 the Polish government negotiated an increase in expenditure below this level, taking into account earlier poor R &amp; D funding, to a ceiling of 1.7%. GDP by 2020 How is Poland's investigation going for this reduced purpose? R &amp; D expenditure has increased over the last 5 years until 2015 from 0.74% to a level of 0.95%. And if they continue to grow at the rate that they grew in government - and at this best time of government - PO-PSL, it's an indicator of 1.7%. We would have reached the 3% rate in 2034. , like all other developed EU countries, in 2066, i.e. in a quarter of a century. And the other thing. One of the most important measures of innovation in the economy is the number of patents applied for or obtained in Poland, the United States and Europe. In Poland there are 12 patent applications to the European Patent Office for 1 million inhabitants, while the average in Europe is 131, in Germany - 300, in Switzerland - 800. 12, 131, 300, 800 - it must be worrying, this is what we have today. As far as patent protection is concerned, it's even worse. It's just a call, and that's worse. The aim of the proposed law is therefore to launch a whole range of instruments that will contribute to the growth of innovation and thus to the greater competitiveness of the Polish economy and economic growth. The Law and Justice Government, bearing in mind the changes that will certainly take place in the funding of innovation beyond 2020, when the financial perspective of 2014 and 2020 is completed, to mobilise innovators or encourage investment in innovation, will introduce a whole range of changes in particular to abolish the taxation of intellectual and industrial property imports, to increase the eligible costs and the costs of obtaining a patent, to increase the amount of eligible costs alone, and to extend the period of the possibility to deduct costs for R &amp; D. In addition, these changes are intended to include a cash refund for newly established R &amp; D companies, facilitating the disposal of property by state-owned legal entities, in particular universities, extending the period during which scientists today have the right to participate in the benefits of commercialisation, and a whole range of other solutions, the instruments referred to by the Minister. High Seym! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the government project in print No 789 and recommends that this project be directed to further work in Parliamentary committees. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u165	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel will now speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u166	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present an opinion on the draft law amending certain laws setting out the conditions for carrying out innovative activities. In the beginning, maybe in two words I will refer to Mr Czarnecki's speech, who spoke about the number of patents, which is unfortunately very low in Poland, but that if we count these patents, we will take them into account the expenditure that is spent on research and development in Poland, it will turn out that it is not so bad at all. Therefore, in this respect, i.e. in the area of patents, it is simply an increase in expenditure, and I think that Mr Czarnecki will be in favour of a significant increase in expenditure on science and higher education in the next budget. My statement, briefly, will consist of three parts: the first - general evaluation of the project, the second - selected positives and the third - reservations. The overall assessment of the project submitted is positive, it is an important and necessary project. Many regulations are a continuation of the existing rules, so we have continuity of policies, which is very important here. The project was the subject of extensive consultation with the scientific and economic community. As a result, the proposed solutions deserve recognition. They represent an important step towards achieving the objectives, but it is clear that further work will be needed on new rules. It is good that the arrangements for both income taxes are in one place, because this avoids unequal treatment of these categories of taxpayers and ensures adequate coherence. The permanent abolition of import tax in the form of commercialised intellectual property should be assessed positively. Further, a positive assessment deserves the inclusion in the catalogue of eligible costs of obtaining a patent protection law based on a utility model, rights from registration of an industrial design, incurred by micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. A good solution is to increase the percentage limits for eligible costs. It is beneficial for the objectives pursued to extend the time limit for the benefit of the deduction of eligible expenditure. Further, it can be said that the answer to the university's demands is to introduce the possibility of creating more than one special purpose company. I can say a few more good things about this bill, but I only have as much time as I have, so I'm gonna move on to things that you might have reservations about. These reservations in proportion to the value are not large, but also occur. For example, with regard to the solution contained in Article. 3 and on the rules for exercising the powers of the State Treasury, it may be considered whether the need to implement a time-consuming procedure for obtaining the approval of the Minister of the State Treasury should be excluded, following the prior agreement of the university senate, also in the case of short-term rental of fixed assets for scientific purposes, e.g. testing apparatus. Why? Because the proposed provision refers to conference, training, teaching, recreational and sports purposes or audiovisual production. If we want to facilitate cooperation between universities and innovative entrepreneurs, stimulate private sector R &amp; D activities, then perhaps short-term paid access to scientific equipment should also be slightly more formalised. Although the threshold for the value of assets requiring such consent is as high as 250,000. Euro but demand cannot be excluded [[♪ The bell ♪]] for the rental of apparatus of a value exceeding that threshold. Here I would have other comments, but I will report them in the course of further processing. Thank you very much. Overall assessment is positive, definitely positive. We are in favour of passing on the project for further processing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u167	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Wójcikowski will speak on behalf of the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u168	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The State that sits in government benches! I will refer, on behalf of the Kukiz Club15, to the amendment of certain laws setting out the conditions for carrying out innovative activities - project, print No 789. Ladies and gentlemen, I would divide my speech into three parts. I would like to point out that firstly, the change we are debating concerns entrepreneurs, economic operators, secondly, concerns scientists - people who make inventions, develop patents, carry out research, and thirdly, concerns institutions - institutions of science, universities and entities and institutions appointed by universities or other research and science centres, which are also expected to change as a result of this project. The effect of the facilitation of these three groups of actors and individuals is to increase innovation, increase flows and cooperation between these three actors in such a way that the degree of innovation, the degree of patents in relation to whether to inputs, whether to the population or to the number of researchers is clearly increased to accelerate this. Why? Because innovation is an Achilles heel. One Member has already pointed out that, among other things, because of the lack of innovation we fall into the trap of medium development. The law goes in the right direction and we at the Kukiz club15 will support all activities aimed at making it easier for entrepreneurs to benefit from innovation, deburerocratise the process of using innovation and reduce taxes in one way or another: by excluding certain tax elements or other tax-related amounts. All activities that lower the tax base, lower taxes for entrepreneurs, are welcome by us. We believe, however, that the authors themselves mention that this is a de facto small act on innovation. We're waiting for a big one. These actions are far more modest than our economy needs and than our entrepreneurs need. There is a reason why we are at the gray end when it comes to using innovative processes, and there is a reason why other countries and other economies are using our innovation, if it already exists, to a much wider extent than we are able to do. First of all, in general terms, what should be pointed out, and what is not here? It should be noted that entrepreneurs should have as much facilitated measures as possible to increase the use of innovation. In other words, as in the Asian countries, large heads should be supported by small, medium-sized enterprises and micro-enterprises. There should be instruments and conditions that facilitate such cooperation. It's not here. With us, even in this law, micro-, small and medium-sized enterprises exist themselves, and large corporations exist themselves, and there is a synergy between large-scale and co-operatives, small, medium-sized enterprises and micro-enterprises in the use of innovation. If we fail to pay attention to this, we will miss an important aspect of this problem, which these solutions do not address. Second thing. Steps should be taken to reform Polish universities in terms of the use of the fruits of innovation, the fruits of research, because here we will create certain conditions where universities have simpler procedures, where scientists have more opportunities, but universities themselves have not reformed to the extent that they enable many capable scientists to break through the walls of their own universities with innovations, with projects, with opportunities. It is important to seek reform of the research institutions themselves, research institutions themselves, universities themselves in this direction so that, in particular, young and ideas-filled scientists can break through their own structures and go to entrepreneurs. So I'd move the decisions to the scientists themselves or to their direct superiors, not to the Senate walls, not to the rectorate walls, not to the university-managing walls. Down, down, major decentralisation of the university. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This would certainly also help in terms of innovation. In conclusion, Kukiz15 supports actions related to the Small Innovation Act and we will try to help you further develop in support of Polish entrepreneurship and in support of innovation development, including synergies between companies and research and research institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u169	Thank you very much. On behalf of the club, Mr Paweł Pudłowski will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u170	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! The proposed law amending certain laws setting out the conditions for carrying out innovative activities, print No 789, is certainly the beginning of the process leading in the desired direction. The aim of the project is to create instruments that contribute to the innovation of the Polish economy, which translates into an increase in national income and improve prosperity in Poland. Poland in all kinds of innovative rankings is always weak. Why is that? Why is this, even though we have access to funding from the European Union, a relatively favourable regulatory and business environment and free higher education? Why are we still in the tail of Europe? Is this related to expenses? Is this related to what we now have in the bill proposal? Is this related to the state of our mind, which is not ambitious enough to solve problems in a better way to organize the world in a better, cheaper way, serving more as a service or a product? The Modern Club welcomes this first step in stimulating innovation. One of the most important elements of the law received by our parliamentary club is the proposal for tax solutions, the increase of the maximum deduction of eligible costs or the extension from the current 3 to 6 years of the period during which the entrepreneur can deduct costs for research and development activities. However, we believe that we should move on. We want to make amendments as part of the committee's work. Firstly, the aim is to increase the maximum deduction of all eligible costs for research and development activities from the tax deduction base for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises to at least 80%. This aspect, as well as many others concerning innovation, will appear in the Modern Programme, which was announced last weekend. And so we will not be too generous, because I would like to point out that countries such as Hungary, the Czech Republic, Lithuania classify such support at a minimum of 100%. We would also like to propose the introduction of a non-standard higher amount of deduction of all eligible costs for R &amp; D activities from the tax base of the public-private partnership to 200%. The Act introduces the mandatory nature of the scientific unit's intended purpose at least 0,5% the funding to finance the maintenance of research capacity for activities related to the commercialisation of research results. We think it's worth asking for an amendment that doesn't make up to 0.5% at the same time. but it will distinguish between those for which commercialization is easier, in our sense these are areas of science, natural, technical or medical, and those for which this commercialization is difficult, so it is difficult to choose one factor for everyone. It is also worth noting that the period during which researchers have the right to participate in the benefits of commercialisation is extended, but in parallel the period during which the university has the right to participate in the benefits of commercialisation made by the employee. This may make funds less interested in the creation of spin-offs. Hence our request to consider introducing not only asymmetry in profit participation, but also in the length of this period. Here's another thing. We would like to propose an amendment concerning the introduction of a preferential income tax rate for PIT and CIT for revenues resulting from the commercialisation of the patent or alternatively the exemption from income tax of part of the income resulting from the commercialisation of the patent. It also seems reasonable to submit solutions for corporate income tax exemption in the event of a sale of shares. The Minister spoke about extending this to 2016 and 2017. Why don't we move on? I think the Ministry of Finance will agree with this, since with such a light hand it has just financed the mining industry with 4 billion. I think that innovation in Poland is even more important, so we propose as Modern to extend this period by at least 2020 which will allow the venture capital market to rationally plan expenditure and investment. Therefore, we are all in favour of referring the bill to further work in committee and we hope to be constructive in trying to improve this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u171	Thank you very much. Mr Krystian Jarubas will speak on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u172	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I am pleased to present my position on the government draft law amending certain laws defining the conditions for conducting innovative activities, print No 789. Ladies and gentlemen! The position presented by me concerns the so-called. a small innovation law that provides for a package of solutions, in particular new tax instruments, to promote the implementation of innovation. The regulations relate to changes in certain laws defining the conditions for conducting innovative activities, which have been prepared by the Ministry of Science and Higher Education. Of course, every step in this direction must be assessed positively, because it has a huge impact on economic development in the perspective. As I understand it, the applicant's intention was to improve the legal, institutional and organisational environment of companies and universities to foster innovation processes - all agreed. However, it is difficult to disagree with experts' voices as well, and those with regard to the bill say this: innovation cannot be decreed and private investors cannot be replaced by officials. No one has any doubt that science is worth funding. The question is whether the path adopted by the Ministry of Science will deliver the expected results. The Ministry's plans to change the National Centre for Research and Development to the National Institute of Technology mean that the burden of funding science by the state sector is assumed. If so, are they not concerned about creating an additional army of officials who will, in colloquially speaking, eat part of the budget that could be used to fund the research of the most capable ones? It is worth noting the opinions of experts who cite examples from all over the world. In the most successful countries, the private sector also finances science. Therefore, it may be necessary to create an effective system of financial and tax incentives to increase R &amp; D expenditure. Does the Ministry of Science program include this? The doubts put forward by the Polish Employers, whose experts have rightly noted that innovation is also often a risk, should be taken into account. Here I would like to quote one of the experts: With such initiatives, maybe one out of 10 and 20 ideas will be fired. Meanwhile, offices, administrations are necessarily more conservative than private entities, because they do not want to be accused of wasting public money. So there is a fear that they will be more confident, though less revolutionary, solutions. The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party will be in favour of further work on this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u173	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, Mr Ireneusz Gaina will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u174	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the draft law amending certain laws defining the conditions for conducting innovative activities. As rightly noted in the explanatory memorandum of the project, the potential for innovation is closely linked to the level of investment and their share of GDP is at an alarmingly low level. The consequences of this state of affairs are alarming declines in Poland's position in international rankings of innovation or competitiveness, as well as assessments issued to Polish universities based on their scientific and research achievements. In 2015, only two of our universities were ranked in the academic world university ranking: Jagiellonian University and Warsaw University. And both fell to the last five hundred of this prestigious set. If you compare these facts with the information that in Poland there are more than 600 centres of innovation and entrepreneurship, such as technology parks, technology transfer centres or business incubators, and young Polish scientists have significant successes in the international arena, it becomes clear that the main problem is not a lack of interest in the R &amp; D sector at all. Rather, the problem lies on the side of the shortcomings of the existing legislation, including, and perhaps above all, tax. In principle, innovative activities are subject to risks that may hinder investment. Therefore, the construction of the tax system is necessary to allow this risk to be balanced, including. by introducing a bill of tax concessions, tax refunds for R &amp; D start-ups or the possibility for universities to create more than one special purpose company. However, this may not be enough in the face of today's challenges. There is now a discussion, a public consultation on the shape of the Moravian Prime Minister's strategy for responsible development. We must set strategic objectives and pursue them. In order to launch innovation processes, we must urgently reform higher education. The aim is to create opportunities for the development and promotion of young researchers within the framework of the consistently implemented Bologna process, as well as to build on the basis of the resources of Polish universities at least three universities, which will gain place in the first hundred best universities in the world, as well as the Polish technical university on the basis of one of the techniques of the American Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Little Israel has two universities in the top 100 universities. Poland should have more. We will not build a R &amp; D sector that works with economic and medium and small businesses in the implementation of modern technologies, including patents, without bold changes in higher education and the creation of a system of financial and tax incentives from the state. Increasing the dynamics of the Polish economy requires the maximum use of instruments contributing to the growth of its innovation. This is all the more necessary since in 2020 there will be a change in funding for actions resulting from the end of the current perspective on the use of European funds, and Poland has committed itself to increasing its R &amp; D expenditure to 1.7%. GDP. There is therefore little time. The potential of Polish innovation, which we know even from history, is huge and undeniable, and the task of power is to implement such legislative solutions, so as not to limit this potential, but, on the contrary, to use it as much as possible, also by strengthening the legal protection of patents. Members of the Free and Solidarnia Circle support this bill as a solution in the right direction, proposing at this stage that it be directed to further work in the parliamentary committees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u175	Thank you very much. The questions were asked by 14 ladies and gentlemen. I close the list of Members who have been asked questions. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek from the Civic Platform Club will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u176	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The amendments introduced in this draft law may raise doubts as to the interpretation of the rules. The definitions of the commercialised intellectual value and the commercialising entity to which the relief is intended may lead to the temptation to expand these concepts. In particular, the definition of the creator entitled to these rights and the conclusion of a licence agreement may raise serious doubts. There is a likelihood that contractual structures will be created that will allow licensing, but will be created by entities, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which have nothing to do with the creator or the holder of intellectual value. I would like to ask whether the tax burden facilitations will be accompanied by appropriate, more intensive control instruments from the tax apparatus.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u177	Thank you very much. Now the question is asked by Mrs Lidia Gądek from the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u178	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The impact assessment of the current regulation identified the expected impact of the amendment on the public finance sector. On this basis, it can be concluded that the plan to modernise the Polish economy in about 1/3 is to be financed on the basis of resources of local government units. At the same time, in the explanatory memorandum submitted to the High House, this role of local governments is described in a rather selective way. Therefore, I would very much ask the Minister to make it clear to those who are listening to today's debate with great interest in local authorities, in the general public, in the mayors, in the cities, and also in the ordinary councillors, how much money they will have to take out of their already very tight local budgets for 2017 and subsequent years, and what new tasks will now be on their shoulders. This is very important when planning future budgets. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u179	Thank you very much. Now you ask Rafał Wójcikowski, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u180	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask whether the commercialisation of research should not be based primarily on the fact that it is scientists and inventors - not only scientists, but also inventors and people who do not have formal scientific education, do not have scientific titles, but do a number of inventions in Poland - they should participate in the commercialisation of this research by acquiring shares or shares in projects which will be commercial and will commercially exploit all kinds of innovations, ideas and patents. It is not only the acquisition of property rights and not only the acquisition of patent rights and the exercise of royalty that is the basis for commercial use of inventions, [[♪ The bell ♪]] but also being a shareholder or a shareholder of enterprises. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u181	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mrs Marta Golbik, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u182	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As the Coalition for Polish Innovation has rightly pointed out in its comments to this project, it will be difficult in practice to define by companies what costs can be classified as R &amp; D. The accuracy of the plea is confirmed by the Ministry's reply to page 15 of the Annex: A public consultation report which considers that the existing provisions of the Tax Order allow taxable persons to apply for an individual interpretation. This case is consistently presented in a number of comments on a project led by the social side. Such a solution is hardly satisfactory. As diplomatically replies to the Ministry in the quoted annex, the request will be examined in the framework of the work on the White Paper on Innovation. I am therefore asking the Minister of Science and Higher Education about the date of completion of the work on this request and the Minister of Finance with the question, [[♪ The bell ♪]] what is the chance today to implement the declared level of R &amp; D funding set out in the Europe 2020 strategy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u183	Thank you. Now the question is asked by Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u184	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Gentlemen of Ministers! Increasing innovation and competitiveness is a very important economic objective, and I have no doubt about it, but I have great reservations about the sources of funding. The government assumes, at least because of the justification that the source of funding for innovation will be 20% of the revenue of local government units. I have a question as to whether it was consulted with local governments, because in almost every draft law financial consequences are transferred to local governments to a greater or less extent, whether someone is counting and analyzing it, because in the opinion of local governments - with which I absolutely agree - in local governments there is no more money. Why the Treasury won't finance 100% innovation expenditure, what would be absolutely justified? After all, local governments still support innovative activities through reliefs in local taxes, mainly in real estate tax. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u185	Thank you very much. Now the question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u186	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Smart growth is one of the key priorities of Europe's 2020 development strategy and for Poland we have committed to achieving 1.7% in terms of R &amp; D funding. in 2020, including business expenditure, they will have to rise to 0.8%. To be honest, in many scientific communities in previous years, these objectives have been considered abstract and impossible to achieve, as little has been done in the area of strategy-making and legal instrumentation, including the creation of real incentives to invest in science by industry. I think that it is not only the world of industry, but also the world of science, including research institutes, which so far have been characterized by the best efficiency in commercialization and practical application of developed implementations, technologies. [[♪ The bell ♪]] My question is: How does the Ministry see the further role of research institutes in this very ambitious smart development plan? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u187	Thank you. The question is asked by Vladimir Nykiel of the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u188	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Minister presented to us - knowing that this is the first step, this bill - what will happen in the near future. Well, my question is when a bill or a draft of this large bill would be ready. You've been preconceived. That's at the end of this year, if I'm not mistaken, right? But there's a second thing. What areas of regulation will be covered by this proposal or later by this law, especially those of new regulations that we do not have today? That's it, thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u189	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u190	Dear Marshal, Evaluation of the effects of regulation in the first year of its application: from 300 million to about 600 million, of which 1/3 for local governments. I repeat the question: Have you ever wondered how to help local governments? Further questions: Has the possibility of increasing support, especially for start-ups, not from the 2-year period, but this tax support, for a longer period of operation, not just the last two years been considered? How do you ultimately assess the balance of functioning and expenditure on science in the context of spending in other European Union countries? Are we gonna chase and how fast are we gonna run? I have one more question and such a big request to the Minister for quicker mobilisation of funds. [[♪ The bell ♪]] from a new financial perspective for innovation, because it is also a problem and a barrier that we cannot run this money, and to the Minister of Finance, so that you also request more support for the Patent Office, because we always say: The Patent Office can rewrite more patent applications, utility designs and others, but it lacks money.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u191	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u192	Unfortunately, they're not in the budget these days. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u193	The question is asked by Mrs Elżbieta Duda from the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u194	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! As we read in the draft law on the amendment of certain laws setting out the conditions for conducting innovative activities, modern innovations are created by cross-breeding and mergers which do not yet exist in the fields of knowledge. These connections are still too rare in Poland, but we also have encouraging examples. Namely, thanks to the cooperation of the National Centre for Research and Development and the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, employees of the Institute of Chemical Processing of Coal from Zabrze developed a method of production of low-carbon fuel, so-called. Blue coal. It is thermally refined coal with many times lower emission parameters than traditional ones. In view of catastrophic air pollution in southern Poland, among others. in Cracow or in my family's Rock, in which in heating season the standards of pollution [[♪ The bell ♪]] air with dust... Maybe I'll cut it short. Question to the Minister of Finance: After final verification of the attractiveness of blue coal due to its projected higher than traditional coal price, is financial support considered...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u195	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u196	...his production or purchase...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u197	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u198	...e.g. by people living in...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u199	The question is asked by Mrs Mirosław Nykiel...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u200	...in the most polluted places...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u201	...Citizen's Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u202	...so that it becomes a real environmental alternative? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u203	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! If we asked people who live on a daily basis the problem of Polish innovation, what are the biggest barriers to achieving a good level of innovation in Poland, they would say that not only money. Money, yes, but not just money. A bigger barrier or barrier on an equal footing with money is the climate, the atmosphere for innovators, for the attitude of innovators. It's often said that an innovator is somebody who's up to something for their money. That is why I have a question, Minister: Do we have a holistic strategy to raise Polish innovation, especially the Polish economy, because I care most about it, and do we have any concrete model that has already worked out in the world, or have we done an analysis which of these models, models that will increase innovation in Poland will be the most suitable for our needs? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u204	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mrs Marzena Machalek, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u205	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This is, as we have heard, the first project that will support Polish innovation. And it's not about improving the rankings, it's about changing the Polish model of development. This is a much-needed and expected law containing instruments to help scientists and businessmen cooperate. It is also about encouraging investment in innovation. On the other hand, these mechanisms also contain some danger - the danger of abuse on this issue. Therefore, I ask whether the government envisages in the next law such mechanisms, which, when it comes to innovation, will be counter-productive. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u206	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mrs Joanna Borowiak, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u207	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we are discussing a very important law for science, business and economy and a long-awaited bill setting out the conditions for conducting innovative activities, introducing instruments to support R &amp; D activities. In the last 5 years, under the rule of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party, we have recorded a very small, even slight increase in R &amp; D expenditure - just 0.2% GDP. Does the government hope to do so, though it sees a shadow of hope that in 2020 these expenditures will increase to 1.7% gross domestic product? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u208	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mrs Lidia Burzyńska, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u209	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The changes proposed in the government draft law setting out the conditions for the conduct of innovative activities have one objective and the assumption that the Polish economy will develop on the basis of competitiveness, which will not be without innovation, and that without transparent tools that will support R &amp; D activities. So, Minister, I have a question: When will we be able to observe the first tangible benefits of the proposed law? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u210	Thank you very much. The last question is asked by Mrs Iwona Michalek, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u211	Gentlemen of Ministers! Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The Innovation Act is, of course, a long-awaited solution because it concerns entrepreneurs, scientists and scientific institutions. This law is intended to support the plan of Prime Minister Morawiecki, very important for the development of Poland. It is a step in a very good direction. I'm glad all the clubs, as I've heard here today, are actually supporting her. Everyone's happy about it, and they think it's a very good bill. This is very, very encouraging. However, the opponents say that innovation cannot be decreed. Yeah, but innovation, of course, kills bad rules. Here these rules are to be simplified so that innovation is simply applied to a greater extent. The question to the Minister is simple, [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's already here today. In what areas will the large innovation law, which is due to be proposed by the end of December, change the reality? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u212	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Dardziński will now speak at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u213	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for the club speeches and for the support you have expressed for the project prepared by the government. I also thank you for all the criticisms and proposals. I hope that the project will be addressed to work in committee and that we will have the opportunity to consider it. On the other hand, let me start with the last question, because it really was a repetition of the previous questions, which is what will be in the large law. I'm gonna need a little breather here. [[Joy in the Chamber]] I mean, if I were to talk about a big bill today, which will be the result of working on a white book, which will be in turn by the end of the month, and at the same time proceed with a small bill, you have to forgive me - three things at once is difficult to do. It is not that I want to avoid an answer, but I simply do not want to prejudge what will be the content of this second law before the conclusion of the public consultation, before completing the White Paper. There will probably be solutions that will be a continuation, because I will point out that there is a strategy here, a clear strategy about what is already written in this law, but there will also be solutions that will be new. I can presume that there is a strong likelihood that much more investor-related solutions will emerge. So in addition to the rules on entrepreneurs, researchers and institutions, there will also be provisions on those investing in science that invest in R &amp; D. We shared questions with the Minister because some of these questions concerned tax issues, financial issues. I'll let you answer a few questions. I would also like to thank Mr Witold Czarnecki, who was the first to recall what the purpose of this law is, in fact, to increase the funding for R &amp; D. This is the main goal - to reach this level of 1.7%. This is very ambitious and very difficult to achieve. I hope that the High House will support us in this effort in its entirety. And this, of course, is also a partial answer to the question of whether we want to increase public spending or increase private spending. This law shows that we want to make it easier for entrepreneurs to invest in innovation and development rather than burden the state budget with it, because not only because of our opinion, but because of the facts investing in innovation is cost-effective. It is only a matter of the conditions under which these investments are made. This is how we work, and this law is used to increase R &amp; D expenditure, so that they are financed to a large extent by entrepreneurs, not the public sphere. There was a question by Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, which I will link, if I may, with the question by Mrs Mirosława Nykiel. That was the question that concerned the role of institutes on the one hand, and on the other hand the model, are we working, do we have a strategy, or is this an ad hoc action? The answer is yes, we have a strategy. This strategy was presented by Prime Minister Gowin on Friday. It consists of three elements, a strategy for the reform of science and higher education consists of three elements. Element one is the issue of social responsibility of science. We would like science to be much more open to its environment, on the one hand, to children's universities, on the other hand to universities of the third century, to be open to the sphere, and here is the second pillar, the economic one. On this issue, we have three strategic tasks. The first is the Innovation Act, the first and the second. The second is the reform of the National Centre for Research and Development, so that the programmes launched in this government agency meet the needs of the government strategy defined in the Responsible Development Plan. And the third element is also investment, which we cannot forget, because the Ministry of Science and Higher Education, overseeing the National Centre for Research and Development, has two large investment projects, which are called BRIdge. This is BRIdge VC, and this is almost PLN 2 billion that will be invested in venture capital funds. We cooperate in the second investment fund, the Witello fund, owned by PZU, and this is about PLN 0.5 billion. So we have 2.5 billion that we would like to invest in innovative companies, not only in universities, but also in those inventors who commercialise outside universities. And here is the answer to Mr Wolf's question, if I remember correctly, which said that inventors should have the right to include shares in companies. Yes, we want to introduce it exactly, not only to introduce it, but even to confirm it, because we exempt the inclusion of these shares by means of an attachment that is brought into the company. In the strategy, we reform the law, launch programmes, invest funds and create an institutional framework. And here I come to the point: scientific institutes. Scientific institutes, which are diverse and very diverse, create today a distributed potential that prevents properly optimal commercialisation. We are aware that there are institutes that are doing well with this, and institutes that are not able to cope with it, as is usually the case. It is now prepared as part of Prime Minister Gowin's strategy for a new law on scientific institutes, but I would not like to overtake history either. This law should be presented to you around the end of the year, the White Paper, in answer to the question of the Member and of the Modern Member, should be completed by the end of September. By the end of the year, we would like to have the latter innovative law ready to be sent to public consultation at the beginning of January. As far as the Institutes Act is concerned, the preliminary schedule is for February. This is the deadline for us to send a new bill to a public consultation. So you can see that we are working consistently and systematically on all the elements of this whole system. By building a model, we naturally use good patterns. This is not wrong, but we avoid copying at all costs. We don't copy any patterns, we inspire ourselves with solutions. If we are inspired by solutions, then in the case of the Institute these are solutions used both in Germany and Finland. When we are talking about solutions that concern commercialisation, these are issues not only related to the United States and Israel, but also to Denmark and Finland. These are the directions where we observe what is happening, what kind of solutions have produced very good results in these countries. Do we have any, or do we dedicate special solutions to start-ups? Probably there will be more of these solutions in the second law, but here the solution that we mentioned, that is, this cash return, is not just for 2 years. It serves those who did not later than 2 years ago, which means in this sense we extend a little. You can be a start-up even in the second year, although it's already been running for 2 years. We very much want to start this bottom-up entrepreneurship, this entrepreneurship, which is based on some enthusiasm, to enable it to transform into stable companies. I've already told you about the model. I guess all the things I've been thinking about, if I'm looking right, I've answered. If I left out any of the questions, we will, of course, complete this answer in writing. On the other hand, if you don't mind, I'm going to vote or I'm going to give the floor to Minister Skiba, if, of course, the marshal will allow it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u214	Thank you very much. Mr Leszek Skiba will now speak to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u215	High Izbo! Mr. Marshal! I'm gonna answer three of these main questions. The first question was the question from Mrs Navels and Golbik regarding the definition. What do we really know? We know so far that in fact these definitions, which are in this law, in this draft law, are also in the law that has entered into force and is functioning in the current year. So that there are no significant changes in tax definitions and how companies can apply this law, introduce incentives for innovation. And at the same time we checked that it really is, until recently, there was only one question in the KIP, i.e. the question about tax interpretation. So we don't really have such an experience that there is a problem with the application of this law, there are problems with definitions, we don't have such an experience that entrepreneurs are active when it comes to looking for a way to apply this law. Therefore, of course, that they now apply these definitions for the first time, the benefits of spending on innovation, there may be some kind of reflections, doubts, but I do not have, from the point of view of this number of questions about tax interpretation, the impression that this is a common situation. Therefore, we hope that the application of this law, this draft law, which is, will be simple and will be even easier after the first moment when entrepreneurs learn, one can say, to distinguish which expenditure can be classified as a basis for deduction. In the second group there was a question about spending, about the participation of local governments. Mrs Gądek pointed out that one third of these measures, which is indicated in the OSR, came from a reduction in revenue, which concerns local governments. That is also what Mrs Czernow and Mrs Skowrońska asked. So, in fact, first of all, the question is whether this law was consulted with local governments. The answer is yes. The joint government and local government committee accepted this, took note of the project and gave a positive opinion, accepted, you can say fiscal consequences. Therefore, assuming that in fact the effect of this law is such that actually 1/3, which results from the participation in PIT and CIT, these tax revenues lost, projected as a fiscal effect of this law, translates into the loss of income of local government units, however, as a result of the operation of this law, the growth of innovation, the growth of the income of companies, these revenues will sooner or later appear in taxes and will go to the cash register of local governments. It can be said that this is some kind of assumption regarding the time shift of these funds. Therefore, the fact that local governments have accepted this law is the basis for considering that it is indeed a group of people supporting this bill, of course outside the clubs that presented their positions today, that is wide. And there was another question, Elizabeth Duda, about green coal. The Ministry of Finance does not deal with coal in substance. I think this is a question to the Minister of Energy, and it will be the Minister of Energy who will have to assess whether the financing of such a project makes sense or not, and consequently the substantive decisions should be made in the Ministry of Energy. And the last point is this expenditure. This is what Minister Dardziński has already said, but I will draw attention to one thing. Indeed, the Europe 2020 strategy states that in Poland total R &amp; D expenditure should reach 1.7% GDP. And it actually seems that this goal is achievable, and all the more so that it seems possible to achieve... If we look at the structure of R &amp; D expenditure in countries that actually spend a lot, in which they significantly exceed the current level of expenditure in Poland, it will turn out that a significant majority of expenditure comes from the private sector. Because if there were a question whether the Polish budget could bear 1.7% of expenditure GDP for R &amp; D, this answer would be, you might say, not very easy for the Ministry of Finance, because it is indeed a big scale. But since we see really experience, good examples of countries with high R &amp; D spending, and these countries are really reaching this level, generating private sector spending, while we see a lot of activity from the Ministry of Science, and this project, and the project that the Minister was talking about, i.e. this large innovative law, which is linked to the promotion of innovation, plus a number of actions by the Ministry of Development, this allows us to hope that really the result of all activities will be an increase in R &amp; D expenditure within the private sector. For this reason, the Ministry of Finance has a large... may be convinced that based on private sector funds, these 1.7% can be achieved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u216	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law on the amendment of certain laws defining the conditions for the conduct of innovative activities, contained in print No 789, to the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies, as well as to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of items 4 on the agenda: Report from the Health Committee on the Government's draft law amending the Food Safety and Nutrition Act (Prints No. 786 and 813). I ask Mrs Józef Szczurek-Żelazko to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u217	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Report from the Health Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Food Safety and Nutrition Act, print No 786. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, sent the above draft law to the Health Commission for first reading on 23 August 2016. The Health Commission, following its first reading and the examination of this draft law at its meeting on 5 September, brings forward: The High Sejm will adopt a draft law from print no. 786 without amendments. The amendment of the Law of 25 August 2006 on food safety and nutrition, hereinafter referred to as the Act, results from the need to implement the provisions of Directive 2015/254 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 February 2015 repealing Council Directive 93/5/EEC on the assistance of the Commission and the cooperation of Member States in the scientific examination of matters relating to food, hereinafter referred to as Directive 2015/254, and the implementation of Commission Regulation No 579/2014 of 28 May 2014 derogating from certain provisions of Annex II to Regulation No 852/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the transport of liquid oils and fats by sea, hereinafter referred to as Regulation 579/2014. In the case of Directive 2015/254, point 16 of the repealed Council Directive on the assistance of the Commission and the cooperation of the Member States in the scientific examination of food matters, hereinafter referred to as Directive 93/5/EEC, should be deleted from reference No 1 to the Act. The deadline for the implementation of Directive 2015/254 was 29 February 2016. The repealed Directive 93/5/EEC laid down requirements for Member States to take the necessary measures to ensure that their competent authorities and bodies cooperate with the Commission and to assist them in a scientific examination in the public interest of food matters, in particular public health. It also lays down that the provisions adopted by Member States shall contain a reference to this Directive or shall be accompanied by such reference on the occasion of their official publication. Member States were to determine how such reference was to be made. In the Republic of Poland, a solution was adopted concerning this directive in reference No 1 to the Act in the section concerning directives in point 16. The repealed Directive 93/5/EEC was of a technical and organisational nature and the issues of cooperation between the European Commission in the field of food safety with the Member States and the European Food Safety Authority. Food Safety lays down the provisions of Regulation No 178/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 28 January 2002 laying down the general principles and requirements of food law, establishing the European Food Safety Authority. Food safety and procedures for food safety, hereinafter referred to as Regulation 178/2002, which apply explicitly. In accordance with Regulation 178/2002 the tasks of the Scientific Committee on the The foods referred to in Directive 93/5/EEC have been forwarded to the European Food Authority. Food safety and the rules for cooperation are laid down in Article. 90 laws. In order to harmonise the provisions of the Act with the provisions of Regulation 579/2014, a new wording should be added to the article. 70 of the Act, delete paragraph 22 in reference No 1 in the section on transposition of the Directives and add point 55 in reference No 1 in the section on implementation of the Regulations. Regulation 579/2014 shall apply directly from 18 June 2014. The provisions of Directive 96/3/EC have been implemented in the Regulation of the Minister for Health of 21 December 2010 on specific hygiene requirements for the transport of raw sugar, liquid oils and fats in bulk by sea. In view of the fact that the abovementioned Directive has been repealed and that the requirements for the transport of liquid oils and fats are explicitly laid down in Regulation 579/2014, it is appropriate to amend the wording of the authorisation provided for in Article. 70 of the Act by deleting part of the authorisation to the Minister responsible for Health with regard to the issue of the transport of liquid oils and fats by sea. It is planned that the draft law will enter into force 14 days after its publication. The proposed law is not subject to a notification procedure within the meaning of the provisions of the Council of Ministers Regulation of 23 December 2002 on the functioning of the national system of notification of standards and legal acts. The bill, together with a message to the public consultation, was published on the subject page of the Public Information Bulletin of the Ministry of Health in accordance with the provisions of the Act of 7 July 2005 on lobbying activities in the process of law-making and the Public Information Bulletin of the Government Legislative Centre. The draft law is compatible with European Union law in accordance with the position of Minister of Foreign Affairs of 5 May 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u218	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Kazimierz Matuszny will be the first to speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u219	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I don't think there's any doubt about the bill. As my previous speaker has already mentioned, she is de facto introducing the necessary provisions in the 2006 Act, which result directly from the changes to EU law. Therefore, in order not to prolong the proceedings of the High House, I would like to say that Parliamentary Club Law and Justice obviously supports the changes proposed by the government. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u220	Thank you very much. The Civic Platform by Mrs Lidia Gądek will now speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u221	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform would like to present its position on the draft law amending the Food Safety and Nutrition Act with the draft implementing act attached to it. The draft amendment proposed by the High House in Seym printing No 786 is, in fact, intended to transpose Community legislation on the safety of the maritime transport of liquid oils and fats. The amendment of the bill is purely orderly, does not affect the public finance sector, does not affect the competitiveness of the economy and the functioning of businesses and does not cause controversy among 22 directly interested parties. In turn, the draft regulation of the Minister of Health, attached to the draft amendment, is drawn up correctly and appears to meet all the requirements of good legislative practice. At the substantive level, the draft regulation also raises no doubt. The only flaw in the eyes is indeterminate. In § Point 3 (2) shall provide that the documentation referred to in paragraph 2 is to be provided. 1, accompanied by a bulk load of raw sugar during all stages of transport to the refinery. The food business operator responsible for the refining process shall keep copies of that dossier. As far as it is therefore known that the documentation referred to must be available on board the marine vessel until transport has been completed in the refinery, it is difficult to clearly determine how long a copy of the dossier must be available in the food business responsible for the refining process. In addition, it would be useful to specify where the said entity is required to keep and make available the documentation, a copy of the documentation, although I presume it may be extracted on the basis of other rules on control procedures. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform recommends that the High House adopt a draft law amending the Food Safety and Nutrition Act with the draft implementing act attached to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u222	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Sachajko will now speak on behalf of the Kukiz Poselski Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u223	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club, 15 I am pleased to present my position on the amendment of the Food Safety and Nutrition Act. The update of the existing provisions is dictated by the need to implement the provisions of Directive 2015/254 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 February 2015 repealing Council Directive 93/5/EEC on Commission assistance and cooperation between Member States in the scientific examination of food issues and the implementation of the provisions of the Commission Regulation of 28 May 2014 derogating from certain provisions of Annex II to the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the transport of liquid oils and fats by sea. The proposed law adapts national law to these EU regulations. The amendment is an orderly, systematic regulation of existing legal solutions. The deadline for the implementation of Directive 2015/254 was 29 February 2016. The question therefore arises as to why this amendment is being examined only today, after more than six months. Shouldn't changes in Polish legislation dictated by changes in EU law be carried out in parallel so that Polish legislation keeps up with changes and is as up-to-date as possible? I hope that such simple amendments to the national law, which are mainly editorial, will be developed and processed without undue delay, as there are no serious reasons for delaying the amendment at the time of entry into force. With regard to Directive 2015/254, the draft law proposes that in reference No 1 to the Act, point 16, including the repealed Council Directive 93/5/EEC of 25 February 1993 on the assistance of the Commission and the cooperation of the Member States in the scientific examination of food matters, be deleted. In December 2012, the Council adopted Regulation The Commission has launched a regulatory efficiency and efficiency programme to provide a simple, clear, stable and predictable regulatory framework for businesses, workers and citizens. In this context, the Commission has undertaken to repeal provisions which have become redundant or obsolete. Council Directive 95/5/EEC was intended to ensure the smooth functioning of the Scientific Committee. Food by promoting scientific support from Member States and by organising cooperation with relevant national authorities on scientific issues relating to food safety. The repealed Directive lays down the requirements for Member States to take the measures necessary to ensure that they cooperate with the competent authorities and bodies with the Commission and to assist them in the scientific examination in the public interest of food matters, and in particular public health. As regards Regulation 579/2014, which has been in force since 18 June 2014, it is necessary to harmonise the provisions of the Food Safety and Nutrition Act with the provisions of the Union Regulation by giving a new wording to the article. 70 of the Act and deletion of point 22 in reference No 1 in the section on transposition of the Directives. In view of the above, Kukiz15 will vote in favour of the above law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u224	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the club, the state of the art will speak... Oh, excuse me, now on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club, Mr Kazimierz Kotowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u225	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Our club believes that today's bill is good, proper and justified. I do not want to mention the compliments themselves here, it is not that, but we believe that it is properly prepared, taking into account the requirements that face such acts, meets the requirements of both European Union and national legislation, which regulates the conditions and modes of transport, in this case raw sugar, by means of maritime communication. It is therefore good that we are adopting and ordering, adapting the next area of functioning of our legislation to European Union legislation. We will present a position to continue work and adopt the proposed text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u226	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan will now speak on behalf of the Free and Solidarni wheels.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u227	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the government proposal for a law amending the Law on Food Safety and Nutrition. The bill under investigation is of a regular nature and the regulations in question carry out two tasks. The first is the implementation of Directive 2015/254 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 February 2015. The Directive is repealed by its provisions of Directive 93/5/EEC on the assistance of the Commission and cooperation of Member States in the scientific examination of food matters. This procedure is a logical consequence of the adoption by the European Parliament and the Council of Regulation No 178/2002 on 28 January 2002. They shall communicate the provisions of that Regulation to the European Parliament and to the Council. The tasks of the Scientific Committee for Food Safety are as follows: Food referred to in Directive 93/5/EEC as repealed. The second task to be implemented is to implement the provisions of Commission Regulation (EU) No 579/2014 of 28 May 2014. This Regulation concerns derogations from certain provisions of Annex II to Regulation No 852/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council. It explicitly sets out requirements for the transport of liquid oils and fats by sea and repeals Council Directive 93/43/EEC on the hygiene of foodstuffs with regard to the transport of liquid oils and fats by sea. It is therefore necessary to delete from the Article. 70 of the Food Safety and Nutrition Act authorising the Minister responsible for. health as regards a matter governed by Commission Regulation (EC) No 579/2014. Given that the deadline for implementing Directive 2015/254 was 29 February 2016, the Free and Solidarni Circle will vote in favour of the Act. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u228	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u229	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The aim of the project is to implement European Union law. The amendments made concern the provisions of Directive (EU) 2015/254 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 February 2015 and Commission Regulation (EU) No 579/2014 of 28 May 2014. In accordance with Directive (EU) 2015/254 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 February 2015: In accordance with Regulation (EC) No 178/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council, the tasks of the Scientific Committee on the The foods referred to in Directive 93/5/EEC have been forwarded to the European Food Authority. Food safety (EFSA) and they are currently provided for in Regulation (EC) No 178/2002. For the tasks of the European Office for Foreign Affairs Food safety (EFSA) should be provided with information and scientific advice on existing and emerging risks related to the food chain and thus promote scientific cooperation with Member States on food safety. In Poland, he was appointed to cooperate with the Agency in 2008. EFSA's Polish Coordination Point. Commission Regulation (EU) No 579/2014 of 28 May 2014 grants a derogation, the wording of which is "By way of derogation from point 4 of Chapter IV of Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 852/2004, liquid oils or fats which are intended for human consumption or are likely to be used for human consumption ('oils or fats') may be transported by sea vessels not intended for the transport of foodstuffs, provided that the conditions laid down in Article are met. 2 and 3 of this Regulation. According to the arguments set out in the Regulation, these amendments are due to the practicality and nuisance of food business operators to the requirement in point 4 of Chapter IV of Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 852/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the transport by sea of liquid oils and fats which says that foodstuffs in bulk, in the form of liquid, granules or powder, must be transported in containers or containers, containers intended for the transport of foodstuffs. As the European Commission points out, access to sea-going vessels for the transport of foodstuffs is too limited to ensure the continuity of trade in such oils and fats. The conditions for the application of this derogation in the abovementioned Regulation No 579/2014 describe the prior cargo in containers prior to bulk transport by sea vessels of liquid oils and fats, both those to be processed and those not to be processed, as well as the material from which the vessel is made. The report of the Health Commission of 5 September 2016 on the draft amended act requests the adoption of the draft without amendment. As the projector assures, the amendment will have no impact on the public finance sector or on the competitiveness of the economy and entrepreneurship, including the functioning of businesses or the labour market. The proposed changes are of an orderly and editorial nature. Therefore, the Modern Parliamentary Club does not propose amendments and is ready to support the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u230	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Government bill amending the Act on the Income of Local Government Units (prints Nos 718 and 825). I ask Mr Andrzej Maciejewski to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u231	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 5 September, a joint meeting of the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy was held... [[There is no minister responsible, Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u232	The Minister is notified, I understand he's on his way.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u233	...and the Committee on Public Finance, on which the first reading of the draft law on amending the income law of local government units was carried out, print No. 718. Members agreed that this was not a project of self-government dreams, but a specific prosthesis extending the current legal status until 2019, i.e. it is not a choice out of love, but more out of reason not to really block local governments. The Government Party has committed itself in this discussion that in the next 3 years a comprehensive income law on JST will be drawn up and incorporated into the state's financial system as a whole. During the committee meeting, two amendments were tabled and taken into account by the Bureau of Language and Technical Legislation. Finally, the joint committees voted on the draft of this Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u234	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that the discussion on this item would be held on the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jerzy Małecki will be the first to speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. There's no envoy? [[Voices from the room: There it is.]] [[Voice from the room: He's coming, he's coming.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u235	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the draft law amending the law on the income of local government units. The need for the proposed amendments is linked to the loss, at the end of this year, of the existing provisions of the Act of 13 November 2003 on the income of local government units governing the rules governing the establishment of payments of voivodships to the state budget and the way in which they are distributed. It is therefore necessary to introduce this law. The absence of the proposed regulation will deprive the majority of voivodships of a significant part of the revenue, as there will be no legal basis for determining both payments and subsidies, and local authorities will not receive regional subsidies from payments in 2017 and subsequent years. It should be noted that, unlike voivodships, there is a correction and equalisation mechanism for municipalities and powiats without a time limit in the law on the income of local government units. The draft law on the amendment of the law on the income of local government units extends for 3 years, i.e. for the years 2017 and 2019, the rules of the correction and equalisation system for voivodships in force in 2016 apply. At that time, our government, the Government of Law and Justice, will prepare a comprehensive law that will regulate this issue. The project follows the principle that no voivodship will receive less resources than it would have received in 2017 and in 2018 than if the law had been in force before 14 November 2013. In line with the assumptions, as in 2016, a special reserve will be created in the state budget for 2017 and in 2018 and 2019 respectively, which will be used to fund the construction, reconstruction, renovation, maintenance, protection and management of voivodship roads. The draft law also contains changes aimed at ordering and clarifying the current rules, namely the provision of information on the amount of subsidies via electronic tools and the determination of the minimum amount of subsidy transferred between the entities covered by the administrative breakdown of the country. It is proposed that transfers between units should be subject only to amounts higher than the lowest remuneration. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the draft law on amending the law on the income of local government units. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u236	Thank you very much. Mr Jacek Protas will now speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u237	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I must say that I am deeply disappointed. First of all, the fact that at the moment when we are discussing changes concerning the most important law for local government in Poland, there is not even a Deputy Minister of Finance to which we can direct our attention. [[Applause]] Secondly, I am disappointed that after many months, after many of my appeals also from this place, you did not really prepare to present us with a new law on the income of local government units. Let me remind you that in spring Ub. The government then established a special team consisting of representatives of all local corporations and representatives of the Ministry of Finance in order to work on a new, substantially amended legal act, which will constitute a financial base for local governments. Let me remind you that the current law is from 2003. In the meantime, the conditions under which the local government operates have changed dramatically, including. we have entered the European Union, local government generates 2/3 of investments in the public sector. A thorough approach to this legislation is needed. In addition, in this term of office, in subsequent laws, such as the Act on the provision of medical services, 500+, the Act on the amendment of the Act on the Education System, you impose new obligations on local governments without guaranteeing them funding. The funding sources of local government units need to be diversified. Self-governments have long said that PIT and CIT taxes are the most unstable source of funding, and government revenues are mainly based on these two taxes. We talked about this and reached an agreement with the government of the coalition PO and PSL that we would also base the financing of local government units on VAT, which is the most stable and which would allow rational income planning and, of course, expenditure by local government units. I also recommend that we transfer the assets of two agencies: the Agricultural Property Agency and the Military Property Agency to the counties for the sake of the Polish counties, leaving them also some of the income derived from the management of this property. The new corrective and equalisation system, the ladies and gentlemen of the state, which is part of the internal cohesion policy of each country, must be a modern system based on current financial data or precise forecasts. The whole problem with the so-called. Janosik was based on the fact that payments were calculated on the basis of historical data. I also propose that a reserve be created in the state budget in the event of a sudden drop in revenue in local governments, which are contributors to this system. I would also point out that the new law should also take into account regional policy mechanisms for regions that will not be subject to convergence after 2020. Fortunately, there are more and more of these regions in Poland. Today it is Mazowsze, but after 2020 it will also be other regions. They should also be included in regional policy. That's what we're gonna need resources for. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2020 deadline for the entry into force of the new law on the income of local government units is simply unacceptable. I understand if we're taking today's extension of the bill for a year, just to give ourselves some more time to work, but not actually. [[♪ The bell ♪]] for another term of office. I would remind you that in 2019 there will be parliamentary elections. Then you want to prepare a new bill? I think it's just putting ad Kalendas Graecas off. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u238	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, now on behalf of the Kukiz-15 club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u239	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I'm glad I'm not talking to the walls. There's the Minister, the Deputy Minister of Finance. I took part in the honour of presenting a position on behalf of the Kukiz club15 regarding the amendment of the law on the income of local government units, print No. 718. Ladies and gentlemen, we'd like to sing, but it's already been done. But it has already been and it once again shows that the makeshifts in the Polish system are immortal and eternal, they are perfect. In fact, we should ask the question of what stands in the way in Poland to build a decent, uniform system of income of JST, all the more so because the Deputy Minister of Finance is personally the same Deputy Minister as in previous governments. What's going on? There are actually two doubts and two questions. Either the government doesn't want it, or it has no idea what to do with it. Well, if we have the same Deputy Minister, so there's a continuation, a continuity, which can also testify to your competence, and that's the plus, without a doubt, Deputy Minister, that doesn't change the fact that the new Prime Minister, the new Minister, is coming, and everyone says, "We need to look into it." Why look here? Everyone knows exactly what the local governments are doing and how they are doing, and you all know perfectly well, and in the Ministry of Finance in particular, what is the state of public finances. This bill is really such a wedding, not out of love, but out of reason. It's a little makeshift that unfortunately needs to be created, so that in 2017 the regional government will not be left without anything. Some optimist variant here is that when we take a list of subsidies and payments estimated for 2017, it follows that the most gain here is Mazowieckie, Wielkopolska, Małopolska and Dolnośląskie voivodship, that here these results of systemic changes are already more positive. So it also kind of shows a little light in the tunnel. But once again, it's not enough. It is not enough, because in local governments we need profound systemic changes, because in the European Union we are not a year old, and I feel that we still cannot build all of this as a coherent, uniform, transparent whole. The Kukiz Club15 will support further work on this bill, we will vote in favour, but at the same time, Minister, we will wait solemnly and every year remind you what you promised - that in the next 3 years the uprising is to be built, and I believe that it will be, the income law of the JST. Because if it doesn't arise, then in this case there will be no doubt about who's guilty. There will no longer be a translation of the coalitionant, here there will be no justification that it is the Sejm, the Senate. Unfortunately, all will fall on the Law and Justice, and it will pay the bill. So I believe that you will do this, and for your part as Kukiz,15 we offer openness to wise and wise talks about the future of Polish government and finance, and at the same time we expect that they will finally be concrete. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u240	Thank you very much. Ms Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus will speak on behalf of the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u241	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, this government law on unit income covers only an extension of the rules that are already in force. Modern understanding is that this amendment is necessary, because these provisions, which are now in force - the 2003 Act - regulate the rules for establishing payments for voivodships only until the end of this year, i.e. 31 December. We know that if there is no such regulation, the local governments will not receive in 2017 and subsequent years subsidies from contributions, and this would also deprive the local government of a significant part of the revenue. However, the Modern wants to be sure, and we do not have this certainty that the Government of Law and Justice proposed in the draft solution, similarly to those in force in 2016, so that no voivodship would receive less money than it would have received if the law in force had been in force before 14 November 2014. According to us, this bill is a bit of a trick. I remember the first meetings of the local government committee, when we called together with the whole committee bureau, we talked about the fact that the income of JST is one of the burning issues for local governments. Unfortunately, I was surprised to hear from my colleague from the Civic Platform, who came from a group that for eight years ruled and which this group did not take into account... [[Read what happened eight years ago.]] ...a citizen's local corporate project. This civic project, as I recall, has been in the freezer for two years and you haven't been interested in it at all. [[No, you didn't. Read it.]] So I think your fault is very big here, too. That's why we're not sure that the Law and Justice government will do anything about it, because there's no concrete evidence. The fact that there will be no law until 2020 is such a bit worrying announcement, because there is nothing to say about the fact that this law will be created together, in cooperation with local communities. And I think that Modern is not about marriages of reason, but rather about marriages of love, because local governments are precisely this area - the whole local government law and everything that was going on around local governments - which is probably one of the biggest successes that our country has achieved since 1989. However, we would call on the Government of Law and Justice not to wait for the next years to debate, but to address as soon as possible the problem of underfinancing the local authorities, so that this work does not last for the next three years, but to start as soon as possible and end at the end of 2017 and that this debate on the new law is really related to consultation with the environments concerned and to take into account all the demands of the local authorities, because who, like the non-governments, knows best what problems they face every day. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u242	Thank you very much. Ms Małgorzata Zwierzan will speak on behalf of the Free and Solidarni Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u243	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I have the honour to present our position on the report of the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Government's draft law amending the law on the income of local government units. After hearing the proceedings of committee meetings and opposition remarks, it seems that the government bill is a concrete measure of the possibilities that local governments have had so far. In the meantime, the truth is quite different. Numerous reforms introduced in the state system, and thus at local government level, make changes to the Local Government Income Act necessary. However, they will only be possible after the collection of revenue allocation data, i.e. in 2019. Therefore, the amendment of the law only extends the existing provisions in the field of the correction and equalisation system for local governments of voivodships. The adoption of the Act is necessary for local authorities to receive regional subsidies from payments from January 2017, as there will be no legal basis. The current law applies until 31 December 2016 to the establishment of both payments and subsidies. The contested law also provides for minor innovating changes. It is proposed to amend the provision of information on the amount of general subsidies for individual local government units through electronic tools. In the modern world, not using such tools seems to be anachronism. This will also naturally reduce the number of paper-based documents and reduce the time taken to deal with matters. A similar solution will be applied to inform voivodships and voivodships about the amount of the special subsidy intended to finance tasks related to voivodship roads. I consider the public consultation that has been carried out to be extremely valuable in the work on this law. The amendment also takes into account various ideas concerning the distribution of regional subsidies, expenditure needs and other proposals made by local authorities. Of course, only those ideas of self-government units that can be verified on the basis of statistical data have been taken into account. The contested bill will not contribute to a reduction in the revenue of local government units, but will only allow timely payments and improve the system of payment administration. Given the validity of the amendment and the acceptance of local authorities regarding minor changes made to them, the Free and Solidarni Circle supports the further process of the project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u244	Thank you very much. Two Members joined the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. [[For two minutes, Mr. Marshal.]] Two minutes. Please, as the first question will be asked by Mrs Krystyna Skowronska from the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u245	I have undoubted satisfaction, Mr. Marshal, as the petitioner of this law in almost identical shape. In our previous term of office for 2016, the same way we established the revenue of local government units, hoping that this would be a transitional arrangement. The Minister also declared this at the time. It was a parliamentary presentation. We understood, but why? We're in a different situation today. On the part of the benches of Law and Justice, we had severe criticism. So what should we expect? A good new project. This is not just a law on the income of local government units. That's not the problem of self-government. This is the money that goes to cities, districts, voivodships to secure the needs of residents. That's why I'd like to make that clear. This consultation took place. Because of the problem, the local government accepted it. However, we will not be satisfied with the fact that this bill has been concreteized for 3 years, because it is said: we do not want to deal with it. And every draft new law gives or takes away, gives additional responsibilities, and does not give money to local governments, on the other hand gives money to support certain projects, and on the other hand, local governments have to pay for some. Today we talked about innovation. Local governments have to spend an additional 300 million PLN next year. So we want and we will submit a bill to make this solution only for a year. Now let me ask you a rhetorical question to the Marshal of the Podkarpackie Voivodship from Law and Justice, who so strongly [[♪ The bell ♪]] He criticized the solution before, and today he accepted it: What changed if the bill had not changed? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u246	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Kazimierz Kotowski from the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u247	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Dear Minister, Can you promise us today that this solution, which was adopted last year, will also be after the end of the year and negotiated during 2017 and discussed and that we will be looking for a new solution and a new form of records, so that the voivodship government, in particular as this liaison between government administration, as this government partner, can do its job well, properly? Can we be sure today, like this? We heard last year and early this year and we hear all the time that local governments are an important link? If we keep these records for a longer period, also considering that we add - I say: we - with the new content of the legal acts responsibilities and financial burdens, are you not afraid of the Minister that we make self-government as a partner as a patentor? This government can't take it. I have functioned, worked in the local government for 26 years, passed every level and I know how important it is to enable the local authorities to carry out this mission, which they are called to carry on, as in the last programming period, to be this lever for development and to take on the burden of investing EU funds. I ask the Minister as the person who continues [[♪ The bell ♪]] And it extends that term with that so that we can put aside disputes or differences. Let us move towards creating good conditions for the financial functioning of local governments, all local governments, regardless of the status or political option of the governor, the old or the marshal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u248	Thank you very much. Ms Hanna Majszczyk, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, will now speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u249	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! However, before I refer to the question that was asked last, I would like to make a few comments on the information and suggestions that were presented during your speeches. First of all, I would like to address Mr Maciejewski, but also Mrs Wielgus. It is a pity that there is no Member in the Chamber, because many of the statements that have been made here regarding the procedure of this law, as well as the approach to the creation of a new system is unfair, completely abstracting from what was presented at the first reading of this bill, and abstracting from what the facts look like. I would like to point out that at first reading, also in connection with the questions that appeared, but also with the presentation of this project, I paid particular attention to this - and this is due to correspondence with local government corporations - that no work on this law has been interrupted. We've been working with the local government for over a year now. Individuals were posted to the team by individual self-government corporations. This year another meeting took place, at which we presented another modified version of the functioning of the corrective and equalisation system, taking into account all, but these are all requests of local governments based on statistical data. This presentation took place at the beginning of July this year. So you can't say that work has been interrupted because you don't know how to approach the subject. You know how to approach. We have a ruling of the Constitutional Court, we have a signaling order of the Constitutional Court, in which there are clear guidelines, which elements should be taken into account, and all these elements are taken into account. So the work with the local authorities is absolutely there, so the law is being fully examined in agreement with the local government, and therefore Mrs Wielgus's questions and suggestions that this might not be the case are completely unfounded, because it has been going on for over a year now. The fact that the Act is postponed today as regards its entry into force concerns, as if one element of the whole system, that is, the participation of local governments and participation in individual income. The framework for this expenditure part, the part related to the judgment, with the correction and compensation system, has been outlined. Today, after more than a year, we can say that we are approaching the shape of these solutions, which fully reflect the comments submitted during the work by the local government. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the Joint Committee of the Government and the Territorial Government, which is also the direct consequence of the justification here - and that is also an obligation in the process of the laws which are submitted to the Government, that the state of these arrangements needs to be stated - has given a positive opinion on this proposal. Why, then, does such a deferral occur? As already indicated both in the explanatory memorandum and in the first reading, as I said just now, it is about this income side, because changes already introduced or designed to be introduced in the Polish system of law, especially in tax arrangements, will be reflected in the situation of local governments' income situation and the distribution of these revenues. Thus, in order to properly determine the indicators, shares and participations of local governments in the various sources of income, it is necessary to see how this system will affect the distribution of these revenues. This is why this decision was taken to postpone entry or to present a final draft law that would apply. With regard to the question of whether negotiations can take place during the year, I do not know if I have understood this question correctly. This draft law, which was introduced by the government as regards the solution for the correction and equalisation system for voivodships, contains a scheme of allocation of funds for the next three years, not for a year. It also includes mechanisms for building complementary grants for individual voivodship units, local governments of voivodships. The construction of this mechanism was designed here in such a way that the reserve supplementing the revenue of local governments, the grant for construction, renovation and maintenance of roads was constructed in such a amount - and this is apparent directly from this law - that no local government of voivodships would receive income lower than that which it would have received if the 2014 solutions were in force. Therefore, this mechanism is directly enshrined in this law and obliges the government to include such a reserve in each draft budget for each year, so that the amount of that reserve for the purposes I have mentioned in its entirety does not result in revenue being lower than that which would have been if the 2014 system had been in force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u250	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, rapporteur, please. [[May I, Marshal? In corrigendum mode.]] Please, your name has been mentioned. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u251	Dear Minister, I wish you'd been there for me, but I'm not going back to that. On the other hand, I wanted to ask you two questions. Since the work of the team, which was established in the spring of last year and which was also part of it, has not been interrupted, is ongoing, why do you want to prepare and process a new bill only in 2019? It's inconsistent, isn't it? If you really are working, you have to introduce him as soon as possible, preferably next year. There is also a second point, a positive opinion or agreement between the Commission of the Joint Government and the Territorial Government. I know what these arrangements look like, because as you well know, I was co-chair of the joint committee. If local authorities are given a specific project to evaluate, and in this project [[♪ The bell ♪]] There's a shift in operating time...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u252	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u253	...that bill about a year or a few years...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u254	Thank you very much. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u255	...well, what can they do other than give an opinion or agree?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u256	Commissioner Andrzej Maciejewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u257	Mr. Marshal! Minister! That's right, what you said. At the committee meeting, despite many doubts, both committees: and finance, and government, expressed this will to act well and trust, despite many doubts. As you pointed out, in fact, our speeches here today in the Chamber concerned actually the Act on JST more as a global law, not just from print No. 718. There's one more thing I'd like to say for myself. I admire you for your courage, because many of your former bosses are absent today, and you, as the person who has this continuity of being vice-minister in those years and today, accept this, I apologize for saying so, in a manly and dignity, and at the same time I see hope somewhere here. I am glad that there are these announcements of consultation and cooperation with the local government. Here, too, as head of the Parliamentary Council, I declare that we will be open as a committee for further work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u258	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u259	The draft law on the amendment of the law on the income of local government units extends for 3 years, i.e. for the years 2017 and 2019, the implementation of 2016 solutions in the field of correction and equalisation for voivodships. The project also envisages other changes of order and clarification of the existing rules, such as the transmission of information on the amount of subsidies via electronic tools, the determination of the minimum amount of the subsidy transferred between the entities covered by the administrative breakdown of the country. The amendment currently being proposed is necessary because the existing provisions of the Act of 13 November 2003 on the income of local government units governing the rules governing the establishment of payments of voivodships to the State budget and the way in which they are distributed are in force until 31 December 2016. The introduction of new solutions in the field of correction and equalisation for all local government units, municipalities, powiats and voivodships should be embedded in the target financial and economic system. This will make it possible to properly define the new principles and criteria of the corrective and equalisation system, taking into account the actual, after reforms, the income potential of local government units. This time will allow you to develop the most optimal solutions. Taking into account the time needed to introduce reforms and then to collect revenue allocation data between local government units, it should be agreed that 2019 will be the most optimal date for developing a new correction and compensatory system that has been in force since 2020. The absence of the proposed regulation would mean that local governments would not receive regional subsidies from contributions in 2017 and subsequent years, as there would be no legal basis for establishing both payments and subsidies. This would deprive most voivodships of a significant part of their income. Unlike voivodships, there is a correction and equalisation mechanism for municipalities and powiats in the Act on the Income of Local Government Units, without a time limit. The proposed law therefore regulates the rules for establishing contributions to the State budget and their distribution only in relation to voivodships. For these reasons, PSL supports the proposed solution.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u260	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the law on gambling and some other laws (print No 795). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Wiesław Janczyk to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u261	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present a government bill amending the Act on Gambling and some other laws contained in print No 795. The proposed bill constitutes a fundamental amendment to the Act on Gambling adopted in 2009. It includes systemic solutions that introduce particularly necessary changes in the regulation of gambling. The government has prepared this project with two main objectives: firstly, ensuring the highest level of protection of players against the negative effects of gambling and raising public awareness of the dangers of illegal gambling, secondly, the fight against the grey zone in the gambling environment, especially in the area of online gaming machines and gambling. High Izbo! Allow me to present the most important assumptions of the project, which, according to the government, will ensure that the objectives are achieved. The project provides for an extension of the gaming directory that can be offered legally on the Internet. At the same time, in order to ensure the safety of players, the organisation of these games outside mutual betting and promotional lotteries will be covered by the state monopoly. This will ensure that those seeking entertainment can do so safely in games organized by a trusted player, ensuring the highest level of player safety. A similar protection will be given to players playing slots. Those willing to play will be able to do so legally not only in casinos, as so far, but also in arcades run by a single-person company of the Treasury. As part of the protection of players common to games on the Internet and in slot arcades, we propose the use of mechanisms for responsible games. The operators of these games will be required to introduce the rules of the responsible game. They are to be defined, among others. procedures to verify the player's age, the obligation to include in the player's visible way information about the player's playing entity, the obligation to register players and mechanisms to enable players to control their activity and limit the amount of funds involved in the games. The purpose of the introduction of the above mentioned paragraph is to: mechanisms are in particular the protection of minors, as well as those prone to addiction. The solutions presented are the implementation of the European Commission Recommendation of 14 July 2014 on consumer protection rules and gambling players online and on the protection of minors against online gambling. Although the recommendation refers only to gambling On-line, we decided to apply the standards included there also to slot games. This is due to the priority given to protecting players in this project. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, At the beginning, special attention was paid to online gambling. The project gives state authorities the opportunity to order the blocking of the websites of illegal operators as well as the obstruction of payments to them. A register of domains will be created to offer gambling in breach of the law. The register will be kept by the Minister of Finance and will contain the names of online domains used to offer gambling to players in an illegal manner. Access to websites using domain names in the register will be blocked by telecom operators providing Internet access services. The entry in the register shall be of a material nature and shall be subject to opposition by the Minister of Finance within 7 days by means of an administrative decision. The decision shall be subject to an action directly before the Provincial Administrative Court in Warsaw, thus keeping the register and making entries will be subject to judicial administrative review. High Izbo! The second way to limit the gray area on the Internet will be to remove links from websites offering illegal gambling to make a quick deposit with the payment service provider, e.g. The bank. To this end, it will be prohibited for payment service providers to offer and make available their services on the pages included in the register. It should be noted that the changes resulting from the introduction of the register do not impose difficult obligations on traders. The register shall be kept in an electronic system enabling the automatic transmission of information to the ICT systems of telecommunications operators and payment service providers. The list of domain names entered in the register will be published on the Minister of Finance's website, kept publicly and generally accessible to all persons and entities concerned. The project also provides for a three-month transitional period for obliged entrepreneurs to comply with the new requirements. We are aware that many Poles have so far unwittingly used the services of illegal operators on the Internet. The changes in the project foresee that any person who tries to access the website via the domain in the register will be redirected to the Minister of Finance. There will be information about the illegal nature of the game in which it was intended to participate, a link to information about entities legally offering online gambling and information about the penalty for participating in illegal gambling. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, As part of the fight against the grey zone, the project also provides for an extension of the catalogue of entities subject to monetary penalty for breach of the rules governing the gambling market. These include operators of gambling in breach of a licence or permit granted, the owner of a utility premises where unregistered gaming machines are located and where business activities are carried out. The responsibility of persons acting as managers or members of the management bodies of gambling operators without the required licence, authorisation or notification has also been introduced. In addition, the penalty will be imposed on entities in breach of the proposed rules on the obligation to block websites and payments made to operators offering illegal gambling as well as to operators of national monopoly gambling and participants in illegal games. In order to combat the grey zone as effectively as possible, it will be prohibited to have slot machines by unauthorised operators. The ban is to be excluded, among others. manufacturers of vending machines and traders carrying out their transport, which will ensure the freedom to conduct business activities of Polish and EU entrepreneurs. The level of penalties for violating the rules governing gambling has been raised. For example, the penalty for organising games on slots without the required license has been increased from 12 thousand. PLN to 100,000. Evil for every vending machine. Thus, the preventive function of penalties has been strengthened. High Izbo! The project is expected to enter into force on 1 January 2017. It should be noted that the reason for this project was not the expected additional budgetary revenue, but the result of the reduction of the grey area. We estimate that the additional revenue in the first year of the Act's new wording will amount to PLN 729 million and will ultimately reach more than PLN 1.5 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, At present, the draft law has been submitted to the European Commission in the framework of the notification process. Government representatives shall remain in constant contact with the Commission in order to carry out this process as efficiently as possible. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! By passing the bill to the High House for consideration, I assure you that from the government we are ready to participate in parliamentary work with full commitment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u262	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Maria Zuba will be the first to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u263	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The current provisions of the Gambling Act, as mentioned by the Minister, were adopted in 2009 after the outbreak of the gambling scandal. We remember these genre scenes at the cemetery and the legislative marathon forced by PO and PSL Members at the meeting of the finance committee, which started working on the draft law at 9 a.m. and ended - as I well remember - after hours. 23. Since then, the bill has been amended 12 times. Nevertheless, its rules have not been eliminated from the market in this area of the shadow economy. Only in 2015 3554 proceedings were initiated against persons involved in illegal gambling via the Internet. In 698 cases, accusations were made to suspects, and 330 cases were convicted. State authorities, including customs, on the basis of the experience gained over 6 years of working on the basis of existing rules on slots and online gaming have sufficiently identified areas in the system of functioning gambling in our country. On the basis of this knowledge, risk areas have been defined in which the scale of infringements in the gambling system is greatest, resulting from the lack of transparency and the possibility of unambiguous interpretation of the rules. The draft law submitted by the Government of the High Chamber in print No 795 clarifies the rules that are the source of illegal practices and introduces legal tools limiting the grey zone functioning in the gambling environment. The government's proposed regulation regulates the gambling system in several areas: reduce the gray area while increasing the availability of legal gambling, increase the protection of players and prevent minors from participating in gambling, reduce the administrative burden on traders providing gambling services, increase the awareness of Poles about the risks arising from the use of illegal gambling operators, and increase the revenue of the state budget. The government estimates that the economic impact of these changes related to the reduction of the grey economy will result in revenue to the state budget of PLN 1.5 billion. According to the assumptions and objectives adopted by the government in the project, the operator providing Internet access services will be obliged to block access to websites using domain names in the domain register for offering gambling not in accordance with the Act. The register would be maintained in an electronic system enabling the automatic transmission of information to the ICT systems of telecommunications operators and payment service providers. The register will be available on the website of the Ministry of Finance. The provisions of the amendment of the law lay down rules that will apply in the process of blocking access to websites. The effect of blocking access to websites offering illegal gambling will be to reduce the gray area, protect players and raise public awareness about the scale of the market share of games without the required permission. Prohibition of cooperation with illegal payment service providers [[♪ The bell ♪]] making rapid payments with the participation of payment service providers will impede the functioning on the domestic market of entities without the required authorisation. It's just a brief outline of the changes in the system that the government is proposing. On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I request that this law be passed to the finance committee and that it be further processed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u264	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Konwiński will now speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u265	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, I will present my position on the draft law amending the Act on Gambling and some other laws, print No.795, on the government project. Mr. Marshal, in the justification for the bill, we can read that the aim of the project is primarily to reduce the presence of a grey zone in games on slot machines and on the Internet. Another important objective is to ensure the highest level of protection for citizens against the harmful effects of gambling on slots and on the Internet. These are the nice words contained in the justification for the bill, but it is difficult to resist the impression, reading the bill itself and looking at the consequences resulting from the entry into force of the bill, that - simplifying - you introduce a major part of the state monopoly gambling and at the same time expand access to gambling. And that, in our opinion, is very dangerous. You say, in the justification for the bill, that games on slots belong to the most addictive players, and at the same time you increase access to these games. In 2015 there were around 2.5 thousand in our country. slots for games located in casinos. This is, of course, what we're talking about is what's going to apply to this area outside the casinos. You propose that there be the possibility of placing slots outside casinos in the number of one slot machine per thousand inhabitants in the county, up to 60,000, as I understand it, in total on the national scale. It is also difficult to resist the impression that the purpose of the Act is mainly to increase revenue to the state budget. You originally estimated that this could generate more revenue by PLN 24 billion in 10 years, now the project is already talking about a smaller amount, probably about PLN 15 billion in 10 years. It is possible for us to support this part of the law, which is actually talking about reducing the gray area and which is talking about protecting against addiction, because gambling is such a phenomenon - we see this, there are a lot of studies on this issue - which, however, causes addiction. But we will oppose this part of this law, which talks about increasing the availability of gambling and also offers opportunities for a greater impact on society and causing more addictions. You're doing it with this kind of dial, introducing a state monopoly, because then there's not going to be a gray zone. Well, for all areas of life we can introduce a monopoly of the state, it will indeed not be a gray zone. So, in our opinion, fighting addiction is just an excuse. The objective is one fiscal objective: to increase the revenue of the state budget. Next year, we already know, will be a record year when it comes to deficits, despite quite high economic growth. In the campaign, you have talked many times about the fact that your goal is to raise about PLN 30 billion to the budget, so you estimated VAT fraud. So maybe it's worth taking care of, rather than leaning down on such small amounts as 1.5 billion a year, risking an increase in addiction? [[Voice from the room: Small.]] Of course, I say this in a ridiculous way, because the state under the beautiful slogan of fighting the grey zone is really expanding access to gambling in Poland. This is what we do not agree to, and in this part we will not agree to. Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: This is not true.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u266	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Wójcikowski will now speak on behalf of the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u267	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present the position of the Kukiz club15 on the government draft law amending the law on gambling and some other laws, print No 795. The proposal presented to the High House is an amendment of a very unfortunate gambling bill from the previous era - the PO-PSL era - which was a reaction to the media gambling scandal. Then, as you know, a child was fired with a bath and a law was invented that completely delegalized the games of the vending machines that went underground, into the gray area, and there they remained for the joy of both the rulers and the grey zone. Right now, ladies and gentlemen, we have a project where a state monopoly is proposed to remedy this pathological situation that is currently taking place. This state monopoly is a very bad solution to all kinds of problems, both fiscal ones, ideological ones and those related to the upbringing of future generations, addictions and addictions. The state monopoly is to take over the Sports Totalizator, which deals with the so-called. soft gambling, like lotteries, or a sports totalizator. From this, both culture and sport are funded, and the young generation is raised. How do you want to justify that the Sports Totalizator will now deal with hard gambling and that will be the means to raise our young generation in terms of sport and culture - from playing one-handed bandits? I don't think so. There's no logic in that. But the Sports Totalizator, I understand, will do as you're told. Ladies and gentlemen, you are talking about profits, about the fact that a monopoly, like the sugar and match monopoly before the war, so now a monopoly of one-armed bandits, a state monopoly of one-armed bandits, will benefit us to the budget, but do not tell us what the cost will be. You'd have to say how much the vending machine will cost -- it's an average of 30,000. zł. The Sports Totalizator will buy 60,000. One-armed thugs of 30,000. It's art. How much is that? PLN 1.8 billion. The state will therefore invest taxpayers' money in the amount of 1.8 billion, allocate it to gambling, to a gambling monopoly. I understand that the Sports Totalizator will not pay dividends during the period when it will invest in one-handed bandits, will not finance sports, culture, or education - somewhere this money will have to be taken by the state. And if you fail to block the gray zone because the gray zone is viable and has its own ways, and for every weapon the gray zone will find an anti-weapon, then this money can be thrown into the mud, and always the gray zone will be more attractive to players in terms of capital, financial, tax. So please take into account that the state is taking a gigantic investment risk - the state is investing in gambling, not knowing that it will return, it is investing 1.8 billion. This agreement can't be too much, because it doesn't make a budget for this country to invest in gambling. The State assumes that 80% the market will take over from the side or from the grey zone. I doubt that. Further, the work seems to have been discontinued by 31 October in connection with the notification in the Union. And what if this does not work, if the Union considers that this monopoly is not intended to serve educational purposes or purposes that sanction any civilised social gambling standards, it will only consider that these are fiscal and monopolistic goals, and it will block the state? Are we gonna keep spending money on this? We also do not like the fact that on the occasion of the monopoly of one-handed bandits we introduce Internet censorship, which, as you know, is not well received by society - you remember the peripety of the Civic Platform with the ACTA Act. So I don't think it's a good idea if we try to censor the Internet the other way, because we want to introduce a monopoly on gambling. With regard to better solutions, it would be worth considering whether gambling should be taxed or whether the differences between bets paid by players and the winnings paid by the bookie should be taxed. If gambling were taxed in this way, it would be possible to tax not players directly, only companies themselves. This would significantly facilitate tax collection and reduce costs, and it seems that revenue would be higher. But the state does not take an example from many European Union countries where gambling is taxed in this way. You do not take the same example from Spain, and in Spain, as you know, voluntary taxation is proposed for all 5 years back. [[♪ The bell ♪]] entities exiting the grey zone. That's how the Spaniards got... We estimate that 2 billion PLN could be obtained, taxing back, voluntarily, gambling companies and then allowing them to operate. To sum up, ladies and gentlemen, there are many other elements such as poker... Deputy Marshal Richard Terlecki: Thank you very much, sir. Good. ...such as playing poker and other types of gambling that could be civilized without introducing a monopoly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u268	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Jaros on behalf of the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u269	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! In 2009 the Sejm of the Republic of Poland adopted regulations or amended the law on gambling. The effects we see today are in many cases negative - not only for the budget but also for society. I would, of course, like to say, among others. about these three aspects that cause concern and sometimes even expose to the ridicule of legislators, that is, us. The first is primarily a game on the web. You know very well that this is happening, this is ongoing, that no one is condemning anyone, and that is why this situation must be civilized and normalized - certainly not through censorship. Second, he's playing poker. In Poland we have many outstanding players who play outside of Poland, because unfortunately they cannot play in Poland. This needs to be civilized. The third aspect, the one that raises the biggest doubts, is the game on slot machines. As everyone knows very well, in the end of 2015 all concessions expired. Theoretically, since 1 January 2016 there should not be such places in many Polish cities, and their, I would say, did not disappear, and arrived - we have more such places. Of course, the social aspect, which is gambling addiction, is important here, but another aspect is also important. Well, in my region, in Lower Silesia, as customs chambers estimate, there are almost 2 000 places where illegal slot machines are played. Customs houses enter such places, requisition vending machines, and unfortunately after a few months they return to owners. The rules are dead here. Importantly, police officers and customs authorities emphasize that in these places besides gambling, in addition to games on slots, there is a sale of drugs and boosters. This is a serious social problem and it needs to be really addressed. We are in favour of improving this law, but what needs to be stressed is that as Modern we are against the monopoly of the state. This is a mistake and this is the wrong direction - I warn you not to go in that direction. My colleague Paweł Pudłowski will talk about further proposals and objections to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u270	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Pudłowski now has the floor, still on behalf of the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u271	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! So what does the PiS government do after 7 years of action of this horrible, inoperative bill that the PO-PSL government introduced? Well, by calling for the fight against the grey zone in the gambling environment and by increasing the level of protection of citizens against the harmful effects of gambling, which, in the current situation presented by my previous speaker, is certainly necessary and desirable, he offers us solutions even worse, as if from a completely different era: monopoly and preventive censorship. The key solution contained in the new gambling law is to introduce a state monopoly in games on slots outside casinos. The government believes that by introducing a monopoly, it will eliminate the grey zone. Unfortunately, in the countries that were covered by the monopoly, these solutions did not work out and were withdrawn from them. An example can be mentioned by a Member from the Kukiz party15, not from the party, but from the Kukiz club15, Spain, Italy and Denmark. Monopoly is not an answer, and the protection of young people against gambling in the above mentioned countries has unfortunately proved illusory. Gambling is undoubtedly a huge business today. In countries where it is organised properly, it brings even a few percent of GDP of revenue to the state budget. There is nothing wrong with gambling itself, well organized and under proper control. Gambling has many faces. These are card games, including mentioned poker, roulette, slot machines, online games, sports betting. It is an entertainment both for those richer who play at the casino as well as for those poor ones who count on a chance to win at Lotto's betting. The problem is, of course, pathological gambling, which is gambling addiction. In this case, the Act does propose some good solutions. However, regardless of the model for regulating gambling in different countries, the number of addicts is roughly the same and varies between 1%. a 3% population. So, regardless of whether the gambling state prohibits or does not, it lives on, a similar number of citizens will participate in these games. We are also against the monopoly and the issue of PLN 5 billion, as it is estimated, for the purchase of slots, supervision of information systems, organization of salons, maintenance of premises, lease, employment, when the same profits can be realised by collecting appropriate taxes. It is therefore modern for rejecting this project and for launching a broad public consultation, which was lacking before this proposal was introduced, [[♪ The bell ♪]] in order to develop a model in which regulation and proper control will allow us to standardise this market accordingly. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u272	Thank you. Ms Genowef Tokarska will now speak on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u273	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I will present my position on the draft law from print No 795. The project introduces numerous amendments to the Act on Gambling of 19 November 2009 and its main objective is to eliminate the so-called "gambling." a gray area for games on slots and games on the Internet. Hence, the project proposes a number of legal tools to combat illegal gambling. The fact is that the current level of State control over the gambling market is insufficient, which, with significant illegal activities particularly in relation to slots and online games, makes such activities not subject to tax and reduces the revenue of the state budget. In our view, the gambling market needs to be sorted out, and it is worth noting here that this project does not make any changes in taxes related to gambling. Neither the tax rates nor the form of their settlement are altered. On the one hand, the project significantly extends the legal offer of gambling and on the other hand introduces strict control from the state. The expansion of offers and their state monopoly consists of introducing numbers games and lottery money into the Internet, arranging games on slots not only in casinos, but also in slot arcades and offering online gambling. The project also assumes the liberalisation of the rules of poker and allows casino games to be organised via the Internet by a company implementing the state monopoly. Similarly, a state monopoly is introduced in slot arcades which are considered to be the most addictive and socially dangerous. The project is also addressing the issue of protecting players from the negative effects of gambling, as well as raising the level of public awareness about the risks. To this end, the possibility of blocking access to websites offering illegal gambling is introduced, banning payment services from being made available by providers of these services to illegal operators, thus obstructing payments. All applicants for a licence or authorisation to engage in gambling activities will be required to draw up and apply the rules of the responsible game to be approved by the Minister of Finance. Responsibilities related to the rules of the responsible game include the inclusion on the website of information, full information about the organizer of the game, his gaming permit, the ban on games for minors, the risks associated with gambling and the institutions providing assistance in the fight against gambling problems. In addition, it is envisaged to introduce the need to register the player before joining the games, allow participants to control their activity on the website and prevent participation in the game after the funds have been exhausted in the player's account. The draft provides for an extension of the catalogue of entities subject to monetary penalties for infringements. The penalties will no longer be imposed only on operators who organise gambling in breach of a licence or a permit, but also on operators who own at least the premises, those who violate the law of blocking websites, payment agents, and those who perform managerial functions in non-licensed gambling operators. Illegal gambling operators will be subject to more severe penalties, e.g. The penalty will be increased from 12,000 for playing the automaton without the required license. Up to 100,000. zł. This amount will be charged to each slot machine. The amount of the penalty will be based on estimates of average revenues received from games on slots. It is adjusted to the level of actual losses incurred by the State Treasury. This project is quite extensive. It also proposes concrete and detailed solutions in the form of draft regulations of the Minister of Finance. It was made available for consultation, many comments were submitted and included in the project. [[♪ The bell ♪]] To sum up, it is a project that is very, very much expanding the offer of gambling, exploits ICT achievements and at the same time introduces state control in this area. We are in favour of directing the project to further work on the committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u274	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan will now speak on behalf of the Free and Solidarni wheels.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u275	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I have the honour to present a position towards the government's draft law on amending the Act on Gambling and some other laws. The assessment of the draft law in question may take place only with regard to the analysis of the situation. The authorities of the state are completely helpless against the gray area, to which we can include thousands of illegal slots sites, as well as websites that allow the use of various forms of gambling contrary to the rules in force. This situation has been going on for many years. Gambling addiction is also an important issue. Its development and course can be compared to addiction to alcohol or drugs. It should be noted that according to data published by the Centre for the Research of Social Opinions symptoms of gambling addiction occur in more than 2 million Poles aged 15 and over 250 thousand. people in this age group reveal certain symptoms of the gambling problem. It is the responsibility of the State to ensure the safety of those enjoying this form of entertainment. The draft law significantly supports the resolution of existing problems. The proposed changes to the Gambling Act significantly legitimize some gambling by allowing games to be played on slots also outside the gaming casinos, changing the rules of playing poker and extending the gaming directory offered via the Internet. Such a solution is designed to allow for the introduction of a system of necessary control over this area. Another solution would be to delegate gambling. However, this would completely block the possibility of supervising the organized games in the gray area. Changing the model of regulating gambling by covering them largely with a state monopoly will guarantee a high level of protection for players against the negative effects of gambling. The bill sets out far-reaching requirements for the organisation of games to prevent abuse and to promote the principles of responsible gaming organisation. Changes also improve the level of social responsibility as regards the risks arising from the use of the services of illegal gambling operators. However, the bill is not free from defects. In my opinion, the liberalisation of the rules relating to restrictions on advertising of gambling It's not the right thing to do. Advertising betting is an encouraging factor and does not serve the real defence of citizens. Another element of my doubt is the catalogue of criminal sanctions for violation of the law. Raising financial penalties and extending the gaming directory is not enough. The Act concerns a market generating hundreds of millions of zloty income. Entrepreneurs operating in the grey zone will not give up their activities due to increased financial penalties. A more severe criminal policy would allow for a more effective fight against the grey area. Given the current situation, I would like to draw attention to the complexity of the proposed solutions. By listening to the voices of the opponents of the bill, you can find a restriction on the citizens' freedom expressed in the prohibition to spend money on gambling in any way. However, it should be borne in mind that this law serves as an attempt to regulate an area that is currently without real control and that citizens are not provided with fundamental security. As Chair of the Parliamentary Group on the I support solutions to dealing with the negative effects of addictions, including gambling, and this law is conducive to this. The Free and Solidarni Members' Circle will support this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u276	Thank you very much, Member. 12 ladies and gentlemen joined the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. She is the first to ask the question of Małgorzata Płępek from the Civic Platform club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u277	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill is to introduce a state monopoly on arcade games. I would like to mention examples of such regulations which had the opposite effect. In Sweden, this has resulted in a significant growth of the grey zone. There are countries that have found a better solution, for example by introducing. the licensing system. The gray area has been reduced to a dozen percent, the rest of the gambling market has legal companies. I wanted to ask the representatives of the Ministry of Finance what estimated impacts on the state budget due to the introduction of new regulations are being dealt with, what amounts will be allocated to the purchase of slot machines, how much money will be spent on the fight against gambling addiction and prevention in this respect and whether they will be increased compared to current expenditures. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u278	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Rafał Wójcikowski from the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u279	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask a question related to sport, because Law and Justice, like the previous team, very clearly emphasizes that it supports all kinds of sport, sports activity, sport development, our Olympics, and we have a lot of success in some sports discipline, which is called professional poker. We have world champions and they unfortunately have to train abroad, because the Polish state, both before the present law and in connection with the present law, greatly limits the ability to train, practice this sport, develop players. Therefore, I would like to call for professional poker players to be included in this reform of the Polish sport, which is being implemented by the current government in the field of other sports, especially since we have international successes, despite the grey zone, in competitions that have recently ended, as you know, the world championship in this field for the Polish player. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u280	Thank you very much. Now the question will be asked by Mr Grzegorz Janik from the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u281	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The removal of the grey zone, the protection of citizens from the harmful effects of gambling, the increase of revenues to the state budget, the blocking of the Internet for bookmakers not having the approval of the Ministry of Finance to act legally in our country - Minister, these are good steps, and these are good steps in the right direction. However, my attention was caught by the fact that the article was changed. Article 29 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, which can lead to a situation where legal advertising of mutual bookmakers will become lawful, arranged without the permission of the Ministry of Finance, and thus operating in Poland in an illegal manner. Hence my question, Minister: Will we allow all companies from all over the world in Poland to advertise, or only those who have the permission of the Minister of Finance to act legally in our country and who will pay taxes to the Polish budget? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u282	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mrs Lidia Gądek from the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u283	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'll admit, I was pleased to hear about the proposal for an amendment that tightens up the rules of the Gambling Act. However, I did not find the answer to many questions in the attached explanatory memorandum. As a result of the proportion: one vending machine per thousand. The residents? Is there much more currently functioning slots than this would result from the above-mentioned proportion or perhaps less? What exactly does the legislator understand in terms of places where illegal games have been played on slots over the last five years? Are we talking about specific premises or territories? Doesn't the Minister consider it appropriate to ban slot machines in the immediate vicinity of the so-called providers. instant loans or offering interest drinks? How will the control of gambling sites be secured when it comes to distribution, of course illegal, psychoactive substances of the type of boosters? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u284	Thank you. Mr Stanisław Lamczyk, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u285	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Of course, the project a long time ago... The bill is expected, very important, but I would like to ask the Minister about the article. 15j paragraph. 1 point 6, which allows slot machines also to repair bets. We are talking about repair plants that are allowed on the Polish market, but, as we know, our companies are renovating, even when it comes to the exchange of crates or software, or those that have permission on the Western market. This law does not include this, which is why it is the question of what about those companies that repair the machines that come from the Western market and then come back after repair. Second question: Will the company's history in terms of tax ethics be taken into account when issuing a concession, which is very important? And the third question is, Is it true? [[♪ The bell ♪]] that in companies that will certify, among others. shares have Austrian Novomatic, which is known in Austria, is one of the biggest players...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u286	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u287	...all over Europe? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u288	Mrs Iwona Michalek, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u289	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question about advertising. The question concerns the new proposed wording of the Article. Article 29 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Act on Games which reads: Advertising of cylindrical games, card games, dice games and betting referred to in Article is prohibited. 2 (2) 2 points 1, and games on slots. This point, this paragraph can... There may be problems with interpretation. Question: Does the entity that carries out a legitimate activity under one brand, both in terms of betting, for example. Playing the results of sports competition of people, e.g. football matches, as well as betting bookmakers within the meaning of the Act, will be able to legally, publicly disseminate its logotype, advertising the possibility e.g. betting specific events, including virtual events? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u290	Thank you. Mr Wojciech Murdzek, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u291	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The following questions: What is the expected scale of the grey zone restrictions after the changes to the gambling law? Will not the intention to block the relevant websites in conjunction with clear tax burdens reduce the effect of leaving the grey zone, given that mechanisms for using unfiltered DNS servers or methods of avoiding blocked IP addresses are known? What are the conditions for choosing turnover tax rather than gross income tax? The effects of this tax dimension are also comparable on the international scale. And one last question. Has the self-exclusion mechanism been considered in addition to the rules of the responsible game? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u292	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Piechowiak, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u293	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Certainly, the heads of Polish sports clubs will be pleased with this bill, because the possibility of advertising betting in Poland has so far been limited. I think the clubs will be able to make a lot of money out of it. Two questions, on the other hand. Is it envisaged to transfer some funds to those who will be addicted to gambling? Or will the owners of the premises who rent to third parties be allowed to be punished if they do not know that there is an illegal gambling activity there? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u294	Thank you. Ms Genowefa Tokarska, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u295	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, there are two objectives of this law, i.e. elimination of the grey zone and the second objective - protecting players from the negative effects of gambling and raising public awareness of the risks involved. I believe that this second objective is extremely important, hence my question. And the fact that the objective is very important, at least indicates that the Minister, when he proposed the project today, placed it first. My question is: Why is the government liberalizing the rules on the substantive preparation of operators for the organisation of the gambling market? The obligation of professional examinations, professional certificates for training is changed. I think that we must also bear in mind these very harmful effects of gambling, and in-depth training aimed at negative effects, which will certainly be completed by the exam. [[♪ The bell ♪]] it would be as indicated and desirable as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u296	Thank you. Mr Piotr Uściński, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u297	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question related maybe to the margin of this bill - poker game. The platform, when it was on its knees in 2009, prepared an anti-gambling bill, also banned people from playing poker on their knees. Meanwhile, such an example from life: The Faculty of Economic Sciences of the University of Warsaw has been using poker for teaching purposes for years. Students are learned on the basis of it's probabilities, students are taught the basics of business psychology They're playing poker right now. And after the Platform's gambling bill came into such a curiosity situation that here at the university he learns to play poker, but he no longer organises any poker tournaments for students, which was a normal phenomenon before and the students used the acquired skills in the tournament. It really helps you think strategically, as the university says, [[♪ The bell ♪]] and helps to analyze the competitive environment. Hence the question: Am I right that after the amendment of the law at the university, as well as at other universities, you will be able to play poker? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u298	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u299	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I saw that the Minister here spoke very strongly about blocking access to illegal sites like unregistered operators. That sounded very serious. But I wanted to ask if the ministry had analyzed concepts such as, I don't know, VPN, other technologies of this kind, which are widely known, proxy servers that allow you to avoid security and de facto access the entire spectrum of things on the Internet. I'm talking about it because we all know that. automatic machines are located in many places in Poland, the law supposedly works, but somehow it is avoided. And now it would be a shame if we put ourselves at risk by the next act, not taking into account precisely the technological aspects that - I think - are the main problem on the Internet for those, [[♪ The bell ♪]] who want to limit this freedom. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u300	Thank you. Mr Andrzej Gawron, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u301	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Gambling is addictive, gambling ruins finances, not just personal, but sometimes whole families. I'm sure this zone needs to be regulated, detailed, so that these losses are as low as possible. Unfortunately, today there are thousands of vending machines, those with low winnings, even in smaller towns. These are places where young people can actually become addicted or where they can lose a lot of money. I have a question, Minister: Does the bill contain such solutions, real solutions that will eliminate the places where the game is played illegally, and where for example. When control comes, one switch turns off the software of these slots or, let's say, the power itself so that it can actually fight these slots? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u302	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Wiesław Janczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u303	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to thank you very much for your substantive questions, for your club speeches full of concern. Most of the people who acted on behalf of the clubs who spoke expressed their views in favour of the regulation we are presenting. There were also opinions expressing concern. Maybe some of the provisions appear to you at first glance not yet optimal, but I would like to reassure you that in the course of the work on this document with which we are coming to the Sejm, regulations have been examined in many countries of the European Union, with particular regard to those regulations that have been made in recent years, and I must say that all these solutions that we have proposed in the bill are being tested, in my view, with good results, in many countries. Allow me to start by calming down those who were worried about it, whether blocking access to websites is reasonable or feasible. For example, at the moment, nine countries in the European Union, according to our knowledge, are performing such activities: France, Spain, Italy, the Netherlands, Estonia, Romania, Latvia, Austria, Belgium. Poland would therefore be the tenth country to implement such an action. We should say that when we think about the gambling market, in the way that every citizen of our country thinks, we look at the gambling machines that are currently displayed in many places. It seems that this is a space in which business, the gray zone, operates in an uncontrollable way, without any consequences. Indeed, it must be borne in mind that the last moment at which the attempt to regulate the area was made was around 2009, when permits were issued to introduce such an offer, to decorate, to offer games on slots. At that time permissions were issued for 52,000. that kind of low-win vending machines. At the same time, there were about 7 thousand. high-win vending machines, and another 2.8 thousand. it was operating in casinos at the time. Today ordering the entire area of gambling requires a lot of effort, not a lot of work, it is not an easy thing. No one has told anyone that this can be done easily, and we too are fully aware of this because of the scale of revenue for the industry, which is outside the regulated segment, where there are concessions, permits, etc. You can say that today this segment, which works properly, is the casino games that pay taxes and which in the tender are applying for this service in a particular area of the country. On the other hand, the most out of control element of slot machines - on slots, which in our country players liked very much, and which at the same time are a very addictive tool. You can say that today outside casinos, none of the slots work legally. There was a great deal of trouble with this because the lack of consistency in the notification of the rules amended by the Gambling Act since 2009 caused various judgments of the courts which, even when the customs authorities seized such a device which did not have the right consent, the right license, often ordered the return of the device. I can say, for example, that last year customs took 30,000. such vending machines. This shows the scale of action. I must say that when we compare Poland to some European countries, there is indeed a striking difference here. There are countries in which - just traveling and driving - it is difficult to see such an offer, and there are three salons in one street today. We have received hundreds of letters from people working in the public sphere, councillors, mayors, ladies and gentlemen, people who are concerned that this is how it works today. We've faced many dilemmas. They were finally decided by the right-holder in the decision-making process. First, this document was drafted in the Ministry of Finance, then submitted for consultation, then appeared in the Permanent Committee of the Council of Ministers, where a number of comments were submitted to it. And I have to say that what you are interested in here, the question of blocking the parties, has been weighed for a long time, very long time negotiated - to what point we can go here, so first of all, it is effective to make it work, given all the mechanisms that my speakers have been talking about here, which is how easy it is to avoid blocking the parties as well. This mechanism, which has been written here, is a mechanism that - it seems - will allow optimal use of this element. The second system mechanism is to block payments. Blocking payments for example works well today in three countries: Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia. It's the same thing, for example. The market for slot machines in the hands of the state monopoly operates in Scandinavian countries. I mean, if it's like... a monopoly on the network, a monopoly on gambling services Online, we have this pattern in Portugal, Slovakia and Switzerland. So that we are not on any of these systemic fields, which the law describes, in the experimental phase, that is, we are not the first here, because the solutions of different countries indicate that such regulations can be introduced and these regulations function. The question was, however, whether it would be worthwhile to trade this segment, as in some ways it has been so far. It seems that after these years, when all this has been so harmonised, it is time to face the subject responsibly and so confidently. The answer was that both the Internet and the slots should at least be part of the Treasury monopoly today. And that's the answer. We want the Act to take effect on 1 January 2017, which in practice means that the slots offered outside casinos will become illegal. In this sense, the bill will operate from day one if the High House accepts it and then the President will sign it. At another time, however, the whole system and network of these devices will be constructed. It will be a process that will take several months. We do it in a very modern way. We want these devices to be connected to one network, so that by 100%. time has been monitored so that all the financial flows that are there are archived, so that it is not so that someone can operate outside the monopoly. The bill will make each player feel comfortable that he will know that if he wants to use this type of device and - let's say, let's call it - entertainment, then in the sense of slots outside casinos he has only one supplier. It will be a company of the Treasury - I do not want to name it today, because it is premature - which will provide such services. The same will happen on the Internet. So we're leading to a fully transparent situation where every player in the game can easily realize that they're acting legally. And that's really good news. On the other hand, to those entrepreneurs who would like to continue operating in this industry, we leave an area of betting, in which it will be possible to apply for these different offers on the basis of authorisation. There were a lot of questions about playing poker. The Act for the first time allows you to organize this game outside casino games by casinos, but also gives you the opportunity to organize such games without winnings outside casinos, but legally and with the permission of the Customs House for in-kind wins up to 2,000. zł, i.e. we are meeting this demand, which has been guided for a very long time, but finally it has been reflected, it has also been presented here by some of the Members asking questions. The question was whether it's possible, whether it's appropriate or worth advertising the games. I have to say, mutual bets... At the last stage of the work, a change in this area was introduced into the law. We'll see if she's kept in the Seym. It seems that a logical argument for such a change could be made by the fact that, for today, tenderers proposing illegal games could be more recognizable than those who will be able to offer it in accordance with the law, right? Questions were raised, for example. whether the funds for the protection and treatment of addicts will increase. We predict that the amounts in the payment system which currently operates and distributes those funds at the disposal of the Totalizator Sports in the amount of PLN 958 million, between the Minister of Health and then the Minister of Culture and the Minister of Sport in the proportion of 3%, 20% and 77% that these amounts will increase by 100 million after the introduction of the law. This would mean that over PLN 30 million will be spent annually on treatment of addicts. These are very cautious assumptions, and I think these are real assumptions. I can also inform you that, in terms of the draft budget for the current year, we have revenues from gambling at the level of 1383 million, while cautious assumptions according to the conservative method adopted in the establishment of the state budget for the year future Minister Paweł Szalamach will include the proceeds of gambling at the level of PLN 1709 million. In the impact assessment, we assumed that the proceeds resulting from the amendment of the Gambling Act would be 729 million, 1476 million in the following year, and 1579 million in the following year, but these are additional amounts except those that affect today without the action of this change. I explain, it seems to give you a picture of the situation. If we were to talk today about the size of the regulated market in the field of gambling, the one we know about, it would be worth recalling data that are rather unsystematic, but that is all we have. At the time when these low- and high-win slots were operating, but still with permission, we had information that the low-win slots were affected by PLN 1.5 billion, only on the deposit side, I am not talking about net profit and winnings, to high-win slots - another PLN 1.5 billion. The Sports Totalizer has revenues above 4 billion for 2015. This is newer data. I gave these for 2009, which is very distant, because we do not have any newer data. It has to be admitted that over PLN 3.5 billion Poles leave in casinos, so much money, I'm talking about revenue items. Mutual bets determine the amount of approx. PLN 1 billion per year. So that's the market. However, we do not know exactly the size of the grey zone. We can only imagine. Today there is a very intensive transfer of services to the Internet area. With the help of a tablet, a smartphone can be immediately seated on this, using the offer, of course illegal, foreign tenderers, tycoons who operate in this industry, with the entire arsenal of gambling offers. I will no longer describe this in detail, but this sphere is functioning and under the rule of this new law, we hope, will be moved to the sphere of responsibility, legal. But let me remind you that the purpose of introducing our regulation, this government regulation by Prime Minister Beata Szydło, is to protect the player, is to introduce the rules of the responsible game. The player will be able to do so by himself. disengage from the ability to operate in this system, he will be able to observe his deposits, payouts, will be aware of the size of his activities in this area. That's the bill. By moving on to a few more questions, things that deserve to be clarified here... In addition to what I have already said, which, it seems, describes as if this sphere of interest of the state and was often mentioned both in club speeches and in individual speeches, maybe I will still try to answer a few specific questions. For example, Mr Wójcikowski asked if it was worth investing in gambling. Firstly, the legislator does not force the entity that will implement the law to make investments of a purchasing nature. It'll be a business decision we're not interfering in. The decision will be taken by the entity, its authorities, e.g. whether or not such machines will be leased or purchased by this entity. This will probably also depend on your work in the course of parliamentary work, as long as this law proves to be good, tight in such a way that there will be an effective exclusion of the grey area so that it cannot compete for the execution of this offer with that entity which will have a monopoly. But even if we consider the number of slots that can be placed - there was also a question of why so much and so much - it seems that the number of slots today is much larger than the number that we wrote in the bill. Assumption: for 1 000. The inhabitants of one machine make it no more than 40 thousand. automatic vending machines. So if we look at how much they can cost, it's definitely not a shocking amount compared to the lost ones... Mr Babalski, the Minister, draws my attention to time, doesn't he? I don't think I had a limit. It's rare that I could feel this way on a seymour stand to speak without a time limit. And, ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that the subject is so important, it arouses interest and, by the way, it is difficult that I have allowed myself to share with you the many observations that have been made in the course of the work on this law. So it seems that when it comes to today's fear that it would be necessary to invest, if there were such a will, in these devices, it would be worth regulating this market, and in the long term this investment will certainly not cause any controversy in this regard. And I say, we don't limit the possibilities here. also lease, lease these equipment. This will have to be done by the appointed entity. I have already mentioned that the notification has so far been random and, therefore, there have been various judgments of the court. They made the work of the Customs Service often ineffective, that the courts ruled that the automatics had to be returned. Therefore, without amending the law, the situation simply cannot be restored to normality. The question was whether the owner, who owns a repair company imported here from the West, would be legally able to own or transport these devices. That's a good point indeed. For today in the bill we have such a record that he will not have such a delegation for this. Perhaps in the course of parliamentary work we will continue to lean on this. On the other hand, we have such a goal that, when it comes to the possession of a vending machine, it is minimized. I must say that they have been withdrawn in the course of work within the government records that were originally included in the bill allowing the possibility of punishing anyone who owns a vending machine. There might be an analogy to having a gun here. The lawyers argued a little about whether it was necessary to go this far, but it seems to me that the Sejm, the Committee on Public Finance, or perhaps one of the subcommittees, will have to resolve this dilemma again, because it is as difficult a dilemma as the issue of advertising. Originally in the Ministry of Finance, where this document was created, there were also very big doubts about it and, as I say, these two elements should return to parliamentary work and be decided, because this is the most appropriate place to settle them. Questions have been asked, please, for the amount of tax. This novel does not affect this sphere at all, in order to focus the attention of decision-makers, the attention of the Sejm, on those elements which seem to be much more important than the revenue of the state budget in this matter, because these important elements are precisely, as I said, the protection of players, the protection of young people from addictions, as well as the elimination of the grey zone. I think that's the answer for those who asked about tax matters. We're leaving this for the parliamentary debate. [[Applause]] I'm almost done. The question is whether our Internet blockade system will be effective. I hope so. Practice shows that this is not easy, but we will use the latest possibilities to make blocking websites possible and to make it effective. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u304	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on countering unfair exploitation of the advantage in trade in agricultural and food products (print No 790). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Mr Zbigniew Babalski to present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u305	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the government a draft law against unfair exploitation of the contractual advantage in trade in agricultural and food products. High Izbo! The food supply chain is a very important element of both national economies and global economies, and its importance is not only economic, but also - and perhaps above all - social dimension. For the proper functioning of the food supply chain, it is essential to maintain a good relationship between all its links. The structure of the food supply chain makes it particularly vulnerable to unfair commercial practices. These are common practices which are grossly different from good commercial behaviour and are contrary to the principle of good faith and fair trading and are unilaterally applied by one trading partner to the counterparty. It is very important to be aware that the use of unfair practices at the level of food distribution weakens the financial condition of food producers and agricultural raw materials, reduces the investment potential of food producers, reduces their innovative activities and thus reduces the quality of the goods produced. Consequently, these factors have a negative impact on the last link, which is the consumer. There is no doubt that adverse events occur in all European Union countries with varying intensity and different nature of their practices. The lack of response to these problems from the EU institutions, in addition to the creation of a platform for voluntary rules, the effects of which are very limited, has forced Member States to regulate their national legislation. The Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development also took such action by drawing up a draft law on countering unfair exploitation of the contractual advantage in the marketing of agricultural and food products. The draft law sets out rules against practices consisting in unfair exploitation of the contractual advantage by one of the parties to the contract. It covers suppliers of agricultural or food products as well as buyers of these products, protecting them from the use by one of the parties of unfair use of the contract advantage. The draft law designates the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection as the competent authority for practices involving unfair exploitation of the contractual advantage. The President shall initiate proceedings in cases of unfair practices which use the contractual advantage of the contract. This gives protection against the applicant's identification of the notification, which is a flaw in the existing solutions. The Act sets out sanctions for unfair exploitation of the contractual advantage and for preventing the President from carrying out checks to that extent. Here I refer you to the article. Article 33 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, Article 34 and Article 34 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 It describes how there are also proposals for the level of sanctions that the President of the Office may impose. The draft law also amends the Act on the Agricultural Market Agency, introducing penalties for the purchase of agricultural products without a written contract, i.e. Chapter 5, Article. 41 that regulates, there is talk of a 10-percent proposal when it comes to punishing an unfair supplier or a recipient. The tasks arising from the Act will be carried out by the President of the Office using the provisions of the Act of 16 February 2007 on the protection of competition and consumers. I inform the High House that the project was adopted by the Council of Ministers on 19 July. I also inform you that if the Sejm accepts the same project, it will enter into force six months after the date of the announcement. This time is needed to refine all kinds of implementing rules that will accompany these changes. I would like to conclude by saying that the issue of unfair treatment of operators is widespread. Therefore, without regulation, the Minister for Agriculture has taken such an initiative in order to defend primarily agricultural producers, food producers and consequently the consumer. I hope that, after the discussion, the High House will direct the project to further work in the committee, and there will be any doubts that will arise, we will try to explain, solve problems. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u306	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u307	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Law and Justice Club an opinion on the Government's draft law against unfair exploitation of contract advantages in the marketing of agricultural and food products from print No 790. Our club welcomes and will support the government bill. I would like to make it clear that farmers and food producers have waited years for such solutions. In fact, there are very many economic operators in the market, which, out of fraud, have made thieving a way of achieving business success. This bill, I think, will counter it. In fact, information is getting to us that, for example. trade networks are trying to transfer trade tax recently passed by Parliament to suppliers, forcing them to reduce their prices. This bill is also intended to counter this. First of all, the Act regulates turnover between large entities, does not regulate, which is probably obvious, the sale of small quantities, small turnover between entities, because it specifies that the minimum turnover which entitles the Act to act is at least 50 000. annually, it concerns large companies or groups of capital, which have turnovers exceeding PLN 100 million. As a general rule, the Act on the trading of a supplier with a cooperative or a group of producers of which he is a member does not apply, it is obvious. The Act gives the President of the UOKiK a tool to carry out inspections in order to obtain information that may constitute evidence in the case. At the same time, it introduces a very fast way of suing the District Court in Warsaw, it is a question of checking operations, specifying the possibility of bringing an action within 7 days of the act being carried out. The President of the UOKiK also has to refer the case to the court within 7 days, which also has only 7 days to investigate the complaint. This will eliminate all kinds of delaying deadlines. The President of the Office may give immediate enforcement of the decision if the application of the practice threatens the continued functioning of the trader for whom the party to proceedings has exercised the contractual advantage. The Act introduces drastic fines for both traders who exercise a contractual advantage as well as for managers or members of management bodies if they make it difficult to carry out checks or mislead the Controller. The President of the Office may impose a fine on both the manager and the member of the management body, as I said. Of course, it can take into account mitigating circumstances, and in particular the voluntary removal of the effects of the infringement or the abandonment of an unfair contract advantage practice on its own initiative. We believe that this law will force equal conditions in terms of contracts and implementation of these contracts, force the removal of pathologies such as extortion of prices, extension of payment deadlines for delivered goods, extortion of additional benefits, e.g. such as the application by trade of large-area charges for exhibition and commercial space, fees for advertising services, for the disposal of products, including logistics charges, discounts to catalogues, promotional discounts, for commercial newspapers, etc. I am absolutely convinced, and we will be working on this law, if it is the will of the House, to continue working in the committee to resolve any doubts in the relationship between suppliers and recipients, but this type of law is absolutely necessary, because in the chain from field to table, in the food production chain and in the trade in this food that Minister Babalski was talking about, agricultural producers are the link of the weakest, the food suppliers are the link of the weakest. Of course, this does not mean that we want to move away from organizing them, but in this trade agreement, those who are the weakest are taken under protection and care. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u308	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Azievicz, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u309	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I have the honour to present my position on the Government's draft law against unfair exploitation of contract advantages in the marketing of food and agricultural products, print No 790. High Seym! This project has brought back to the High House a discussion on the administrative boundaries of interference with business-to-business relations that has been underway for many years. In this case, the aim is to counter the reprehensible practices used by traders with high turnover but without a dominant position within the meaning of antitrust law in relation to weaker suppliers. The problem is not new and concerns entrepreneurs from other industries as well. Time has shown that market mechanisms do not fully discharge this tension. Currently, conflicts arising from the reprehensible use of excessive contractual advantages can be settled on the basis of a law against unfair competition. It should be noted, however, that this law allows for the enforcement of claims before civil courts, which for various reasons is cumbersome and not effective for those subject to unfair practices. That is why the proposed solution, as I understand it, provides for an administrative procedure for resolving such disputes through administrative proceedings conducted by the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection. The President of the OOKiK already has instruments to counter abuse of dominant positions based on the Act on Competition and Consumer Protection. However, they are not sufficient to address the problem addressed by the draft law, given that none of the major networks has a dominant position on local markets, according to the analysis of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection. In this context, the introduction into the law of an infringement consisting of unfair exploitation of the contractual advantage seems to be a solution worth considering, all the more so as the legal instruments used to investigate this advantage and practices by large entities will in principle be similar to those used by the OMC in antitrust proceedings. But there are problems and questions. They concern first of all the under-defined and very widely understood concepts of contractual advantage and abuse of it. It is worth noting that there are high penalties, up to 3% of turnover, for violating these undefined rules. The next question is the question of effectiveness, how large buyers will behave after the entry into force of this regulation, whether the real big difference in the market power of the entities covered by the contract will not materialise in other pathological behaviours. The procedure provided for in the draft law itself is largely the calculator of solutions that already exist in the Competition and Consumer Protection Act. In this context, the obvious question arises as to whether the possible implementation of government-designed solutions should not be carried out by amending the Act on Competition and Consumer Protection. Why should additional legal protection apply only to the market for food and agricultural products? The authors of the first, very unfortunate part of the justification, in my view, note that substitution in the production process of good quality raw materials is worse, as well as the use of cheaper chemicals used for preservation and coloration than it results from the contract is a mere fraud, which should be exterminated regardless of the adoption or rejection of the regulation in question and should not be an argument for its adoption to any extent. The devil is in the details. The Civic Platform Club supports the referral of the project to further proceding in committees, where we will join the work on detailed records, and the final shape of the project will depend on our final position. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u310	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz,15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u311	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I am pleased to present my position on the draft law on countering unfair exploitation of contract advantages in agriculture. I am of the opinion that not everything, and some things should not even be regulated by law. However, ensuring food security is the responsibility of each country. Therefore, it is particularly important that incorrect trade relations do not adversely affect agriculture and the food industry in Poland. Farmers have repeatedly drawn my attention to unfair terms and conditions of contracts, to forcing commercial networks to keep records that are beneficial to themselves. The imbalance between the parties to the agreement is mainly influenced by strength and size, by the advantage that large commercial networks are commonly used by farmers, and the negative consequences of which are borne by unaware consumers, that is, all of us, by lowering the quality of the food they buy. Today, few consumers realize that the milk or bread they put in the basket every day is the fruit of many hours of work and the sacrifice of the farmer. They do not wonder where the product came from, who made it and, what is equally important, what the price was paid for it for the farmer, and at what price we buy it in the store. This difference is often the profit of foreign trading networks that feed the budgets of other countries. We should place particular emphasis on the return to consumer patriotism. Let us encourage citizens to check the barcode numbers of products and choose our Polish food, i.e. the one with the code starting with 590 numbers. A useful tool to verify the origin of the product, a percentage of the share of Polish capital is an application for smartphones called Fields. Shortening the supply chain should be a priority for the rulers. The best option is, of course, to buy products and food directly from the farmer. This sale guarantees above all high quality, freshness of food without chemicals or additives identical to natural substances. The bill, which would allow such a turnover, was submitted in January by the Kukiz club15, but unfortunately it is still blocked. I would particularly like to refer to one of the main objectives of this project, namely to increase the powers of the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, which will be able to impose a penalty on the supplier or the buyer. I believe that these provisions are primarily intended to perform a preventive function, i.e. to inevitably lead to compliance with the law. In my view, therefore, only the upper limit of the fine should be clarified by introducing a range from-to so that the penalty is sure and inevitable. It is also important to supplement the law on provisions allowing for a waiver of penalties when the damage was corrected before the proceedings were initiated. I travel a lot throughout Poland, I have many meetings with farmers and I hear in each of them that although farmers are one of the most important social groups, the regulations still prefer large, often foreign capital. I would add that farmers are complaining that the tax authorities are asking them to refund VAT when the company that sold the fuel to the farmer has ceased its activities. Even the authorities of the country unscrupulously use the weakest link, the farmer. When the store announces bankruptcy, its creditors do not turn to their customers with claims. How, then, does this practice take place in the light of the rules in force in Poland with regard to the farmer? I know that this problem does not concern this law, but it is very, very unfair and in my view we should deal with it quickly. I believe that this law is part of aligning the position of farmers with other actors in the supply chain. Therefore, after a few possible corrections, the High House should adopt it soon. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u312	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u313	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Polish trade is not only an international trade network hated by the PiS. Polish trade is 20% GDP and 2 million employees. Polish trade is also producers and processors who supply fresh food to Polish houses every day. And that's the last group I'm most afraid of today. You've created a bill to help them. The effect, in my opinion, will be counterproductive. It is worth mentioning again what we are talking about. The Act prohibits unfair exploitation of the buyer's contractual advantage vis-à-vis the supplier and vice versa. We are talking about practices such as the imposition of contract designs and the one-sided break-up of contracts, forcing the level of purchase prices or extending payment deadlines for deliveries. As we read in the explanatory memorandum, these practices threaten the safety of food, as price pressure can cause production to be reduced or completely abandoned. It will also affect the poorer quality of products, because, as has already been mentioned, good quality raw materials will be replaced by worse ones and producers will not invest in new technologies. Ladies and gentlemen! It was nobody else but PiS who brought new problems on suppliers. We warned you that trade tax would only make things worse for the industry. We warned that it would be transferred to suppliers, i.e. producers of Polish food, and so often working with minimum margins. Today we know that it did. Many commercial networks negotiate prices with product suppliers to find savings to cover this tax. Some of them even sent official letters to their suppliers asking for extrarabats. The milk spilled, and the state - instead of hitting the breasts - admit to a mistake and make a solid consultation on which a solid bill could be drawn up that would actually improve the situation in the industry - you have prepared another booze, a failed bill that will only make the situation worse and not improve it. It is true that there is a problem and the audience often play from the position of force today. We have shelves fees, extra newspaper costs, fighting for these discounts. Unfortunately, such a oppressive act will encourage us to look for circumvention by any possible means. But, of course, the arguments raised by various people from the environment do not reach you. You want to send police to traders in the form of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, imposing drastic financial sanctions on economic operators and their employees - financial sanctions that will threaten workers operating in Poland who can act and take certain actions even unintentionally, because this is what the law says, which nobody mentioned here. These regulations will encourage networks to make purchases from intermediaries registered outside the country, and worse, maybe even from foreign producers and processors. And instead of shortening the supply chain, we're really going to lengthen it. Networks can also drastically limit the list of suppliers by selecting the most loyal ones. The rest will then be forced to use intermediaries or to look for new markets. As a result, the market will remain the strongest players who will strengthen their position and small, small suppliers will stop producing at all. This situation does not serve competition or consumers. Therefore, on behalf of the Modern Club, I am forced to ask for the rejection of the project at first reading and to call on the Ministry to conduct a solid consultation and preparation of a law that will actually improve and not make the situation in the industry worse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u314	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u315	Dear Marshal, Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present the position of the club of the Polish People's Party regarding the draft law on countering unfair practices, including the exploitation of contract advantages, in trade in agricultural and food products. Indeed, these phenomena are very often occurring not only in this aspect, which we have already discussed today, whether in relations the supplier - the supermarket, but even more often there are these disadvantages in the exploitation of the advantage in relation to production, the producer of raw material - the processor of this raw material or even in a very simple issue in which agricultural products are most often traded at this basic level, that is, the farmer - the buying-in point which is located in that or in the neighbouring village. Since such expectations are, this title is indeed good, while the content which in this law is, unfortunately, does not meet the expectations of the agricultural environment and does not fulfil, for two reasons, those conditions contained at the beginning. First of all, this minimum turnover must be 50,000. zł and this partner, who is potentially a dishonest partner, must have 100 million annual turnover. And in this aspect, which most often concerns the Polish village, we are dealing with a failure to comply with both the condition, i.e. this basic marketing of agricultural products will concern entities for whom there will be no regulation in this law, and phenomena which will not be regulated in this law. It is rare that it is the farmer who delivers the product to the supermarket, and it is rare that the farmer delivers the product to a large processing plant. The farmer most often delivers the product to his producer group, which by nature is excluded from that law, or the farmer delivers it to the buying-in point. So, in fact, this law deals with large operators who trade processed products, agricultural products with supermarkets. In these categories, it is necessary to talk about this project and absolutely not to deceive farmers' hope that it will be a regulation of the issue which directly affects them. And now the contents that are included in this law. First, let's say what this supposed contract advantage is. She actually happens very often in relationships, e.g. the producer group - the recipient, i.e. the supermarket, or the producer group - the large processor. This contractual advantage is characterised by a imbalance in economic potential. It is generally the case, so this condition is met. Does acting against good customs threaten and violate the interests of the other party? These are the records that tell you what this contract advantage is. This law is intended to counter unfair practices related to this contractual advantage. The question is: Why is it that this law does not explicitly state what phenomena... what activities cannot be carried out so that this law works? In such a case, as is the case today with the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, which has been entrusted with some new tasks, but has not generally been extended beyond those resulting from anti-competitive practices, i.e. illegal agreements or abuse of a dominant position? In fact, we give the Office of Competition and Consumer Protection some freedom to interpret the adverse phenomenon of contractual advantage, but on the other hand - because the proceedings will continue before the competition court - we put the President of the Office in a very difficult situation, and in my opinion, if it is not clearly written, which is unfair practice, and it is not written in this law, we are, of course, putting him at risk that he will lose such proceedings before the court and this phenomenon will not be absolutely good. And we'll even have a contract advantage. Let's be honest. I'm saying this from the point of view of practice. In my life, I had the opportunity to be a supermarket partner once as a manager of a producer group, and it was as if my worse position in the negotiations with a supermarket was not due to the fact that he had a lot of capital, and I had a smaller one, just because this supermarket offered me that I would either agree to the conditions that were hurting me, which is that it was low prices, or I wouldn't sign a contract. He didn't force me to sign this contract, he just showed that behind my back there are 10 more suppliers who want to sign it under these conditions, and that's what happened. This bill absolutely doesn't regulate it. Today, on my way to the buying-in point, delivering fruit, food, grain to this buying-in point, I find out what my price is and I do not carry out any contract, because this law concerns the fact that there is already a contract and this contract is unfairly concluded or is unfairly proposed to conclude it. No one offers this contract to me at the beginning at the first stage of the marketing of an agricultural product. So let us be honest that the law does not apply to farmers, but concerns those who distribute food products previously processed, bought from farmers, and the purchase of these products from farmers is not regulated and it is not repaired. But, ladies and gentlemen, because the law has a good title and concerns a matter that is indeed a problem in the area of food trade today, whether it be raw materials or processed food, we will not submit and support a proposal to reject this law at first reading. It's good that this project goes to committee. In this committee, we're gonna go after him. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and those errors that are in this bill, we will try to eliminate. And our final vote depends on the level of elimination of errors. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u316	Thank you. Mr Ireneusz Gains, Frees and Solidarni have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u317	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the draft law on countering unfair exploitation of the contractual advantage in trade in agricultural and food products. The aim of the proposed bill is to eliminate unfair commercial practices from the supply chain of agricultural raw materials and food, and this is the most appropriate objective. The pressure to obtain the lowest price from the buyer can actually affect the quality of the food products offered to the customer. Agricultural producers and processors, as a result of the pressure exerted by operators with a dominant position on the market, are often forced to replace good quality raw materials with worse ones and this is as damaging as possible to consumers. The use by large counterparties of terms and conditions that result in the transfer of economic risk to agricultural producers in order to maximise profits often takes place at the border of law. It is a threat to the entire food industry. It is fundamental that the agri-food supply chain is based on clear and clear principles, which will be based on good relations between its links and apply equally to all market participants regardless of economic potential. There is no doubt, therefore, that the bill submitted is needed, but there is some doubt in its form that the Public Prosecutor General of the State Treasury pointed out in its opinion of 29 August this year. Here we are talking, above all, about the wording of the provisions of the Article. Paragraph 7 2 and 3 which require clarification not to duplicate the provisions of the Act on the fight against unfair competition of 16 April 1993 and the Act on the Protection of Competition and Consumer Affairs of 16 February 2007 nor to create a legal mess. It must also be decided whether the content of the Article. The 30th draft law will allow businesses to formulate damages claims where, after disclosure of their data on the website of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, as those who apply unfair practices, an unlawful decision declaring the act committed to be unfairly exploit the advantage of the contract will be repealed against them. I think, ladies and gentlemen, it is in the interest of all market participants and, above all, in the interests of agricultural producers and processors at this lowest level, that this bill can be refined there. As the Free and Solidarnia Members' Circle, we have no doubt that a law against unfair practices in the marketing of agricultural and food products should be adopted, but we do believe that its current form needs to be refined within the parliamentary committees. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u318	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to join us again, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - 1 minute. You have the floor of Marek Kwitek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u319	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The bill is expected by food producers. A good relationship between all links is essential for the proper functioning of the food supply chain. Unfortunately, the problem of imbalance among the participants in the chain has not been regulated by Community law. Poland has been identified by the European Commission as one of the countries in which this situation is worst. Food producers are complaining about the dictatorship of processing plants and foreign trade networks seeking to monopolise and apply price collusive practices. Without proper relations between suppliers and recipients of agricultural and food products, there will be no chance of developing the agri-food industry and stabilising the incomes of agricultural holdings. Experience so far shows that the President of the UOKiK was not equipped with sufficient tools in such cases. Will the contested law provide real tools to combat pricing practices and the use of other forms of unfair competition? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u320	Thank you. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u321	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This Act is intended to prevent large networks from imposing on suppliers such conditions of cooperation as are the cause of losses on producers of food and agricultural products. It is also intended to ensure equal treatment of counterparties supplying goods. The President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection will be the competent authority for unfair practices using the contractual advantage. Penalties for unfair practices in this area should encourage market regulation. In my opinion, we should be careful about this subject. Answer me: What is the scale of unfair practices in the marketing of food and agricultural products? I wanted to ask you what data was based on, calculating the forks in terms of the penalties recorded in the bill. How long will the number of posts in the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection increase in connection with these regulations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u322	Thank you. Mr Mieczysław Miazga, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u323	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It is very good that the law on combating unfair exploitation of contract advantages in the marketing of agricultural and food products is being examined. In recent years, much has changed on the market for agricultural products. The growing large trading networks dominated the market by introducing monopolistic rules from the position of force, producers are in a lost position. Currently, the following fees are in force and functioning in commercial networks: entrance fee for the network store, index fee, expansion fee, newspaper fee plus additional discount without a guarantee of sale, compensation for the goods on the market, pallet charge, space charge in the refrigerator, shelf charge, exposure fee, rack charge, retrospective fee on turnover, retro paid even double for the same shop, product, promotional budget, equipment charge - all together summing up, it can be concluded that there are charges up to 30% of turnover, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which results in the sale of goods at prices which guarantee not profitability but losses. Question: "Wouldn't it be appropriate to limit these monopolistic practices and, going further, prohibit them?" Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u324	Thank you, sir. Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u325	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The use of unfair practices vis-à-vis the supplier of agricultural and food products is, as has been said here, common practice. Of course, large businesses are dominant here, including large-area shops. Suppliers are forced to accept adverse conditions. Examples of practices were mentioned here, such as extending payment deadlines, advertising fees, promotional actions, occasional costs for the disposal of products, for which they have to agree to simply survive. On the other hand, the theoretical prevention of these abuses is present, possible in the legal system, but because the claims are of a private nature, they are practically difficult, expensive paths, difficult to apply. Therefore, it is very good that our government has prepared this law, all the more so because there is no Community relationship between the players in the food supply chain, even though the problem is considered important in the European Union. My question is: Is it because the law does not cover the regulation of the prices obtained [[♪ The bell ♪]] in transactions, large companies will not find ways to compensate for the imposed requirements by reducing prices dictated to suppliers? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u326	Thank you. Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u327	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This law is, of course, not a panacea for all the problems that occur on the food producers market. No one expects us to put this market in order by one law. We also assume that some freedom to dispose of your goods, discussing with recipients often brings the best results. But it must be clearly seen that these unfair practices are the most affected by large farms, including large food suppliers, who are very often forced by these large consumers to sell below the cost of manufacturing. If you don't like the argument, the others will come very often. I am convinced that this law, which we should continue to work on in committee, is absolutely a step in the right direction. It will civilise the trade in agri-food products and food in Poland, which is why we need to work on it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Question: "Is the government, expecting various lobbyist actions, determined not to bend over to continue working on this bill to implement it?" [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u328	Thank you. Mr Piotr Polak, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u329	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! For many, many years, these unfair practices have been mentioned about the dishonesty of large networks when it comes to the sale of agricultural products. It is therefore a good thing that after many years this law was passed to the High House. I would like to ask, Minister, if it is possible to change the wording in the article in connection with these records which are proposed in the project that is currently being launched today. 2, which is mentioned here, has already been discussed here, about this rather high, in my opinion, the amount of turnover with these networks - 50,000. I think a lower amount should be saved. The next question concerns Article. 38, which refers to the fact that no interest is charged on outstanding amounts. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why so generous? I don't think we should treat dishonest distributors like that because...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u330	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u331	...those farmers who fail on their part are charged with interest. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u332	Mr Robert Telus, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u333	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The fact that this bill is good is that we all, almost all of us, know, except for one club, which you can see represents other interests, not the interests of farmers, because it has applied to reject this bill, not even to debate. But it's all modern. It's like they've got other interests, and it's probably not the first time. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska, with corrigendum.]] We also know, as it has been said here, that this is a step in the right direction, but we need to work on it, we need to work on this project so that these supermarkets too, these networks do not force farmers to sign on such a principle: if they sign a contract, we take it if they don't sign, then go, they come. It's also forcing farmers to sign a certain number of rules, which they kind of impose on a given network. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Do we have solutions, or do we have such a system to prevent our Polish farmers' interests from being the most important in this matter? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u334	Thank you. Mr Jan Duda, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u335	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Most of the turnover of agricultural raw materials is carried out by small operators operating generally for larger traders, for larger processors. Small operators will not be covered by this regulation, as is apparent from the project submitted. And here's the question: shouldn't we consider introducing the principle of liability for price undercutting for the end user for whom these small entities operate? I'm afraid that this good bill may not work because many, many small entities, working for a large one, will try to observe this very law. The same is true with reversed VAT. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u336	Please, Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, as corrected.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u337	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. Speaker! I can assure you that the Modern Club always acts on behalf of its constituents. [[From the moon.]] I can assure you that my concern is precisely those supply groups you want to take care of. There is quite a contradiction to the whole debate that you want, so to speak, to take care of the welfare of farmers, of whom the vast majority of even the volume of turnover directly in their dealings with commercial networks does not exceed this volume. In addition, as I said, it can happen as it has been before in the case of your laws, that unfortunately not only will not achieve the intended goal, but the group of recipients to whom this law is intended to help will be harmed by this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u338	Thank you. Please, Mr Andrzej Kryj, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u339	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! As for the fact that this bill is needed, is expected, there is no doubt. When I met with food producers, I heard the arguments from their mouths many times. They also expressed their expectation to strengthen their position. So that we have nothing to discuss here, but in this situation we are dealing with three as if entities, because we have a food producer, the one who distributes food, and at the end of the customer, that is us. And I would like to ask if there is such a concern that these large commercial networks will use the penalty record, the preventive record, to shift their possible responsibility to the customer who will come to them to buy this food. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u340	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u341	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask you about the subject of the law, namely the obligation to sign contracts for the collection of raw materials from farmers under conditions that I hope will soon be defined. The Act states that if such raw material is purchased without contracts, a penalty of 10% will be imposed. the value of trading. Isn't this punishment too small? 10% trading values for e.g. The black currant, which costs 40 gr, 30 gr per kilogram, is just 3 and 4 gr per kilogram of this black currant. Processing plants that dominate the market will laugh at this record and will certainly not want to sign such contracts, because in this way they will be justified absolutely as to what they are doing. And second question. Relations within the producer group were excluded from the Act. The question is why, if the bill elsewhere says that the law is supposed to eliminate disparities in economic potential. I understand if this is a producer group founded on cooperative law, where the economic potential of everyone in this entity is potentially the same, but in entities that are capital companies, the economic potential of members is very [[♪ The bell ♪]] different. So I wouldn't shut it down at all, but I would also settle the relationship between a farmer and his producer group. And a question. Why in this act absolutely nothing is said about an even worse phenomenon...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u342	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u343	...which is in rural areas, namely extending excessive payment deadlines...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u344	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u345	...not by supermarkets, but by customers of the first... [[The Vice Marshal shuts down the microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u346	The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Mr Zbigniew Babalski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u347	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for this discussion. This discussion has shown that, despite the doubts of one club, you are inclined to do so, and in a determined way this has been outlined, for which I thank you very much, to work in the committee on a proposal that was made by the government by Prime Minister Beata Szydło. Thank you very much for this, because this is a very positive signal. Of course, as with every project, and I am 10 years old in the Seym, it is not so, I have never met with the fact that the bill under review does not have any drawbacks so that we do not discuss it. There has always been a discussion about every project, especially the government, so I also thank PSL, who criticised the bill quite strongly, but is ready to work in committee. Very briefly - I know, Mr. Marshal, that time is already quite high, so I would like to address some things in a rather rapid manner, although briefly. In his club speech, the Member of the Civic Platform questioned the effectiveness of this law. The kale of solutions, the directory of tasks - it was exchanged. There was a consultation with the UOKiK and actually they indicated: you will not be able to specify the directory so that you can say that the list is closed, just life will show and decide all this. Therefore, there is this provision in this article: it consists in particular - please note: in particular - as regards the unfair exploitation of the advantage of one of the parties. Mr President, Mr Sachaiko. Yeah, there's a solution and it's gonna be used, that's what I know. Will it be possible to waive the penalty if the damage is removed immediately. I think this solution is absolutely reasonable. However, I will not respond to the upheavals, but I do not think it makes any sense, but I would like to say yes: it is not true that we hate large-area shops, Madame. This bill treats everyone equally. Art. 1 of this law, Madam, says: "The law sets out rules and procedures for countering, in order to protect the public interest, practices consisting in unfair exploitation of the contractual advantage by buyers of agricultural or food products or suppliers of these products, if this use has or may have effects on the territory of the Republic of Poland. It treats all entities equally, so it is a pity that so much pinching. I'm gonna add some more art. 6, Member, I recommend you read it. The unfair use of the buyer's contractual advantage vis-à-vis the supplier and supplier vis-à-vis the buyer is prohibited. Where's the unequal treatment of subjects? It's not there. Rather, large-area shops will still try to take advantage of their advantage. Mr Maliszewski - it is rare that it is the farmer who delivers the product directly. Mr President, we do not make this law for a day or two. This does not yet mean that the situation will not change in such a way that farmers will indeed be these suppliers. We do not close this way, we predict that in the future it should work this way. The directory, again, it repeats itself. I already said that, Art. Paragraph 7 Three of them decide that, too. A Member of the Gaines: work out. Of course we do, we're open to this discussion. As far as the questions are concerned, very briefly. Member of Kwitek: Is this a good bill and will give the basis for protection? In our opinion, yes, if we continue to work on the committee, we'll probably fill in the details. I'm pretty sure it is. Mrs Navel: defilement of honesty. That question, Mrs Mizga, which followed you, was practically well answered by Mr Mizga. He calculated the whole scale of such unfair behaviour, calculating probably dozens of fees, which the network simply requires from suppliers, so I think that's the answer. Etatas, you asked. For today we are after talking to an office based on those jobs that are, which does not mean that there will be any change in the future. It's just that if the bill comes in, and we have six months to do that, you're gonna have to monitor it, and you're gonna see how effective it is, and then you're gonna see if you need to increase the number of jobs. Mr Miazga: monopolization. Yes, it will be limited. Mr Szulowski: Will large companies not find circumvention of this law? We're gonna keep an eye on her. We're gonna keep an eye on her, and we're gonna keep an eye on how we're gonna implement this bill. There will probably be some gates and there will probably be attempts to bypass, but that's what we're here to make this right, even if it's imperfect, to correct. Mr Ardanowski, I think we are 100% determined to implement this law with the help of Parliament. Is there an opportunity - Mr Polek - to change the article. Article 2 and Article 2 38? An open case, sir, for discussion in committee. Mr Robert Telus: Can we secure the interest of Polish farmers? I think that no law will perfectly secure the interests of Polish farmers and in general the interests of Polish society, because the recipe is a recipe, and life shows that various kinds of gates are. But we've tried that. This attempt is made because - you have very frequent contact with people living in rural areas - they simply demand that we at least try to help them. And that's the answer. Mr Duda, this is about contracts, if I understand correctly. If the agreement is concluded and one of the parties is trying to break it, it is already a reason for the institution to initiate proceedings, possibly by the office, in order to clarify the reasons for this, if this is one-sided. Whether they will turn the networks - Mr Kryj - into a customer, for example. I have good faith that the networks will approach this in a prudent and prudent manner, and we will not push our networks all the time. Finally, Maliszewski: 10% Punishment. Mr President, this is also an absolutely open issue for discussion in committee, as is the case with producer groups. We are still waiting for a good solution, and I am sure, I am actually convinced, this bill will find its finale and there will be an attempt to overthrow the unfair practices that have been taking place so far. Thank you very much, Marshal. Thank you, High Izbo. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u348	Thank you, Minister. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Once again with a corrigendum.]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: I did not mention your name.]] [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: But you spoke to the Messenger of Modern, and I was the only one speaking.]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: Enough, on the committee.]] [[Mr Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Mr Marshal, the Minister has called me.]] The discussion is closed. A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. I'm ordering a three-minute recess. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 17 mins 33 hrs. 17 min 38]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Act on the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture and the Act on Income Tax on Individuals (Print No 794). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Mr Zbigniew Babalski to present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u349	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the government amendments to the rules for the implementation of certain tasks of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, which is a novelty of the law. The draft law amending the Law of 9 May 2008 on the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture is amended to: create legal opportunities for the head of the district office or the director of the regional branch in which a certain type of task has been accumulated, to use the help of employees employed in another district office or regional branch who carry out similar tasks and which at the same time can assist other offices or branches in carrying out tasks; secondly, to increase from 15 000. PLN up to 40,000. zł amount above which the consent of the Minister of Finance is required for the remission of claims; thirdly, to enable the President of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture to waive claims ex officio where no debt has been recovered as a result of winding-up or insolvency proceedings carried out, and also where there is a reasonable presumption that enforcement proceedings will not obtain an amount higher than the costs of the recovery and enforcement of claims of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture, or enforcement proceedings will prove ineffective; fourthly, the explicit regulation of the way in which the sums unduly or unduly collected by the company or members of a civil company which has been wound up; fifthly, the possibility of recovering the amounts entered in the accounts of debtors in respect of the appropriations from the budget of the European Union and the national budget by interrupting the limitation period until the end of the enforcement procedure; sixthly, the creation of a legal basis enabling deductions of claims remaining to be recovered from the Structural Funds co-financed by the European Agricultural Guidance and Guarantee Fund, from the Guidance and Guarantee Section of the European Union, and the Financial Instrument for the financing of national resources for the co-financing of the European Agricultural Fund; 24 of the Act of 9 May 2008 on the Agency for the Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture. AriMR county offices simultaneously support various aid schemes, i.e. payments under the direct support scheme, seven aid schemes governed by the Law of 28 February 2015 on support for rural development with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme 2014-2020, aid schemes resulting from the situation on the agricultural market. In the various county offices and regional branches of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, there are different numbers and complexity of cases supported under the various support instruments, ending in principle by the competent head of the county office or the director of the regional branch of the decision on granting payments or aid, depending on the type. In order to carry out tasks smoothly, it was proposed that the cumulative tasks in each district office and regional branch should be carried out in temporarily less burdened offices or branches on the basis of separate authorisations. The proposed amendment will optimise the use of staff resources of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, thereby improving the efficiency of the implementation of the tasks by ARiMR at the level of district offices and regional branches without the need to involve additional financial resources. It is also essential to allow better and faster handling of applications under consideration by district office managers and regional branch directors. This solution will allow for the termination of their service within a similar period throughout the country. An amount of 15,000. zł, above which the approval of the Minister of Finance is required for the redemption of claims, was established in 2003, i.e. 13 years ago, and has not yet been valorized. Today we are talking about the amount of 40,000. Zł, that's the proposal. The analysis carried out of cases relating to debtors registered in the debtor's ledger, as it is also, indicates that, despite exhaustion, it is important, all the legal possibilities for the recovery of ARiMR's claims and the possession of documentation confirming the existence of statutory conditions for the redemption of those claims, the absence of the debtor's application for remission of the claim, is a fundamental matter, the absence of the debtor's request for remission prevents further proceedings from taking place. This is most often the case in cases where there is a reasonable presumption that enforcement proceedings will not be able to obtain an amount higher than the costs of enforcing the ARIMR claims or where enforcement proceedings would prove ineffective. The failure to submit an application for remission from debtors despite repeated submissions of letters containing information on the grounds, conditions, mode and form in which the application for remission is to be submitted does not allow the ARiMR to initiate the procedure for examining the application and possible remission of the claim. In practice, this means that the amount indicated in the ARiMR registers is gradually increased by the amount of interest charged on outstanding debt. It was therefore proposed that, in such situations, the President of the ARiMR should be authorised to waive the debt without the debtor's request. In turn, the increase in the possibility of recovery of the debt included in the debtor's ledger in respect of the appropriations from the budget of the European Union and the national budget is intended to ensure that the limitation period is interrupted. It shall be interrupted as a result of the enforcement measure to which the taxable person is informed, except in the cases referred to in Article. 70 § 4 Tax Order, also as a result of service to the debtor of the notice. The next proposed amendment to the Act concerns the creation of a legal basis for deductions of outstanding amounts from the Structural Funds co-financed by the measures I mentioned at the beginning. The amendments to the Act also propose that the amounts of claims remitted by ARiMR should be exempt from personal income tax. We propose that the law, if the High Sejm decides to accept it, should be sent to the committee and consequently adopted, enter into force 14 days from the date of its publication in the Official Journal of the Laws. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u350	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Please, Mr Robert Telus, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u351	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Ministers! I have the honour of presenting an opinion on the bill under review on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. In view of the fact that the law meets an important group of society, it meets the needs of farmers, because in the second part this law is such a law that clears the matter of debtors - often companies do not exist and are on the lists of agencies - and also because it is a government law, and the law and justice club pursues the same policy as the government, club Law and Justice will support this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u352	Thank you. Mr Stanisław Żmijan, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u353	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, I present my position on the government draft law amending the Act on the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture and the Act on Income Tax on Individuals, the project contained in print No. 794. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Questions and doubts arise as to the proposed changes and the justification presented by the Minister. I hope that these questions will be answered at a later stage in the work on this project and that the doubts will be resolved. The regulation contained in Amendment 1 gives the possibility of concluding agreements and granting authorisations to carry out activities between district offices, regional offices, at a time when the work in each office is piled up. The question arises as follows: Are not these provisions unnecessary to the fact that the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture is a hierarchised, three-step structure, so there is no need for statutory delegations to carry out activities between offices? These tasks may be carried out and mutually supportive by the normal service instructions leading these offices. That's what we've done so far. Therefore, the question arises: Is it not the production of additional bureaucratic procedures, waste of time, of course also paper, etc.? The next amendment concerns an increase in the threshold of 15 000 outstanding claims. Up to 40,000. zł. It is worth thinking deeply about whether without the consent of the Minister of Finance, of course, because this is an important thing... The question is: Is there no lack of control or control over the spending of large, in any case not small, public money, public funds? It is therefore worth considering whether this threshold is increased from 15,000. Up to 40 is reasonable. A waiver may take place without application by the President's statement. Similar questions concern claims on instalments as well as deferred claims. Subsequent amendments shall relate to the determination of amounts unduly collected or unduly collected and their enforcement. These issues are regulated, first, in the Election Order Act, second, in the Commercial Companies Code Act, third, in the Administrative Code Act. Perhaps there are reasons why these regulations are proposed here, but, I say, I hope that at a later stage of our work we will be able to talk about it. The Act proposes a regulation allowing for the exemption of exempt amounts from personal tax and, of course, a transitional provision is proposed that the provisions of the new law already apply to cases initiated. High Seym! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform requests that this project be directed to further work in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and that the club takes a stand once the final shape of this project has been developed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u354	Thank you. Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, Kukiz, 15 has the floor. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u355	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Poselski Club15 on amending the Act on the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture and the Act on Income Tax on Individuals, print No. 794. Ladies and gentlemen, I was surprised to read into this project, because the first impression is that the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture becomes a given principality in the countryside and you, not even the head of the county office anymore, not even the director of the regional branch, but a delegated prince at a level lower than the director of the county office will now be able to give everyone and in the face of redemptions up to 40 thousand. PLN, because 15 thousand. It wasn't enough. As you know, for 13 years inflation has been crazy, especially in recent years, as a deflation, so crazy that this amount has to be increased to 40,000. And then finally, the authority of the agencies and officials will be large enough for farmers to know what their welfare depends on. Not from whether or not he or she will or will not sow or sow, but from what a posted official in the agency will do - whether he or she will give up or not. It is curial, in my opinion, to propose such a solution when the person concerned is not interested in redemption, and the official knows better whether to give it up or not, and without his consent he will do well and give it up when he does not want it to be abandoned. I would propose a similar law to proceed as we go all the way, and I propose a similar law, and instead of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, write the tax office and let us, citizens, thus, up to 40 thousand. They are dying because we are probably not particularly worse than farmers and food producers, so that only they can lose their commitment without their consent and knowledge. We'd love to, too. I'd love to fill out my PIT and then count. Forty thousand. zł redemption. It seems that it is not always the authority of the official to increase his powers, especially in sensitive matters such as the remission of arrears or obligations, that are appropriate. It has nothing to do with justice, it's starting to have a lot to do with so-called. discretion and long-term competitiveness... There should also be competitiveness in the agricultural market, and not just strong prosperity and 100% certainty of everything, because without competitiveness quality will decrease and the majority of production will fall. This is always the case in every area, in every economic sector, if there is no competition, if there is no free market, if there is the discretion of the official. Ladies and gentlemen, this was the situation in the Soviet Union and corn grew like telegraph poles. So I wouldn't want to see corn growing as magnificent as telegraph poles in the Soviet Union as a result of the authority of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. In conclusion, neither the applicant nor the Member of the governing party have justified the need to increase to 40,000. the amounts of possible commitments have not justified the need for this, apart from some theory about optimizing the management of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, there was no justification why individual employees of the modernisation agency should have such powers. I would like to optimize the agency, not only this agency, although also this Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, but proper optimization would be a 50% exemption officials working in it. This would be an appropriate optimization from the point of view of the state's budget and finances, not an extension of the prerogatives and simply official Byzantineism as regards agricultural policy. In my opinion, therefore, we should seriously consider supporting such initiatives. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u356	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u357	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present on behalf of the Poselski Club a modern position on the government draft law amending the Act on the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture and the Act on Income Tax on Individuals, included in print No. 794. Ladies and gentlemen! The draft law submitted by the Government of Law and Justice amending the Law of 9 May 2008 on the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, as set out in the explanatory memorandum presented to the High House, aims to introduce changes that rationalise the functioning of the Agency. To tell you the truth, it was a big surprise that we adopted this draft law on the state institution, because it is a project that is not a staff law. It seems that the time has come when, after almost a year of governing, all the stools have already been taken over by the governing party and the government with regard to the institutions begins to present substantive laws instead of so far merely personnel and names. Good. You'd like to say it's a shame it's so late. The project itself, as I mentioned, contains substantive provisions concerning the agency's activities, rationalising its activities and meeting citizens' needs. So it seems after reading this project, that is our first impression. Among the proposed regulations we find among others. a provision allowing the President of the Agency to waive his claims ex officio where no recovery has been made of the claims set out in the Act and where there is a reasonable suspicion that the enforcement costs will not be covered as a result of the execution. The project provides management of district offices and regional branches with legal opportunities to benefit from the assistance of employees employed in another district office or regional department who carry out similar tasks. This solution is welcome. This is a course worth considering even in relation to the whole administration in the case of institutions performing the same tasks. The regulation also provides for an increase from 15 to 40 000. zł amount above which the approval of the Minister of Finance is required to redeem the claim. An amount of 15,000. PLN, as indicated by the government in the explanatory memorandum, was established in 2003 and has not yet been valued. Therefore, this step, this increase in the amount is understandable, but of course it may be controversial whether it is too much. That's why, but also taking into account lithium. (b in amendment 4) in Article. 1 project, on behalf of the club, I would like to address to the representative of the government, to the Minister a question about the transparency of these cancellations. After all, this is how we understand it - the possibility for the President to decide on redemptions affects the efficiency of the action, but on the other hand it creates a wider area for abuse. That is why it is so important to ensure social supervision of these redemptions. On the other hand, the mechanisms leading to public disclosure and involving the public in supervising the performance of their duties are the simplest way to prevent pathological phenomena and are the most effective. Will the Agency, Minister, therefore, be required to publish the waivers or deferrals and the amounts of those operations? Moreover, this publication could take place in the same way as in the situation of tax relief. On the other hand, as for the amount of the increase, it was in the explanatory memorandum, but I would also ask for a detailed explanation, because it is a big difference and I think it is controversial for a reason. Returning to the project, it should be noted that provisions are included in the legislation resulting in the explicit regulation of the way in which the amounts are investigated due or unduly collected payments by the company or members of the civil partnership which has been dissolved. In addition, it was possible to recover the amounts entered in the debtor's ledger in respect of the appropriations from the budget of the European Union and the national budget by interrupting the limitation period until the end of the enforcement procedure. The project also proposes the creation of a legal basis for deductions of outstanding amounts from European funds and national public funds to co-finance expenditure from European funds. This solution is directionally attractive, but it needs to be clarified in detail as to the admissibility of such deductions, if any, of the effects of these deductions. The project also provides for the exemption from income tax on individuals from the amounts of outstanding claims. This is, of course, the consequence of the specific nature of the matter covered by this legislation. To sum up, the Modern Posel Club welcomes the substantive project after a series of HR projects. We are initially positive about the proposed solutions, but given some doubts that need to be clarified by the government, [[♪ The bell ♪]] we request that this proposal be submitted to the committee for further work and, after hearing these explanations, we will decide whether to support the proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u358	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u359	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party supports all projects aimed at improving the functioning of rural areas, including the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture as a basic institution that supports Polish agriculture in many areas, and will probably support this project in further legislative work. On the other hand, I would like the Minister to refer to and explain exactly what phenomena we are talking about, which are pointed out as unfair phenomena, because we are talking about claims to whom these claims are against, about debtors to whom they are debtors, and we are talking about unduly collected funds, and there is also the question of what is being said. So if the Minister were to say exactly what pathological phenomena we are talking about in this law, extending or improving the functioning of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture in terms of their enforcement, the more our voice supporting this law will be active. By the way, it is worth supporting this project for one more reason. This project, as I understand it, will move towards the effectiveness of the recovery of amounts that are currently under way and which are not on the budget of the State, so for example because this government has some priorities in terms of programmes that are budget-intensive and do not want these budgets to be financed by farmers' pockets, read: raising water use charges for agricultural purposes, and, as you can see, agriculture in the priorities of this government is not in the first place, we will support that these funds go to the budget from dishonest people who are on the market to improve the budgetary capacity of this country. For this reason, among others. We'll support him. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u360	Thank you. Mr Ireneusz Gains, Frees and Solidarni have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u361	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the government draft law amending the Act on the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture and the Act on Income Tax on Individuals. The applicants in the explanatory memorandum point to several objectives of the amendment of the law. I will briefly quote the most important thing in my opinion. The first was the creation of the head of the county office or the head of the regional branch of the agency in which a certain type of task was accumulated, the possibility of legal recourse to the assistance of employees employed in another county office or regional department which carries out similar tasks and which at the same time is not unduly burdened with the performance of tasks at the same time. The proposed solution should be assessed positively. Action is needed to make the way public administration operates more flexible and to make efficient use of the potential of officials, halting the trend of bureaucracy growth observed since 1989. Secondly, the amendment provides for an increase of 15 000. PLN up to 40,000. zł the amount of the agency's claims above which the approval of the Minister of Finance is required to decide on its redemption. In addition, the proposal provides for the Agency's President to be able to waive his claims ex officio where the claim has not been recovered as a result of winding-up or insolvency proceedings carried out and where there is a reasonable presumption that enforcement proceedings will not obtain an amount higher than the costs of the agency's recovery and enforcement. These solutions, as a burden-bearing minister, should also be assessed positively, especially as the amount of 15 000. PLN has not been valued since 2003. In addition, by adding a clear regulation on how to recover amounts unduly or unduly collected from the agency by a company or members of a civil company which has been dissolved, as well as the exemption from income tax on natural persons, the amounts of claims remitted and the possibility to recover the amounts entered in the debtor's ledger in respect of the appropriations from the budget of the European Union and the national budget by interrupting the limitation period until the end of the enforcement procedure, it can be said that the proposed amendments to the law in this respect are of a comprehensive nature and are fully taken into account. An important element of the regulation is the granting of the right to the President of the Agency to waive claims against a debtor who has suffered damage caused by drought, hail, heavy rain, adverse effects of wintering, spring frosts, flooding, hurricane, lightning, landslides or avalanches within the meaning of the provisions on agricultural and livestock insurance, but excluding damage to buildings or who has become unfit to work on the agricultural holding. This is a very important provision that has been proposed in this project. These spring frosts or the negative effects of wintering are a real plague of recent years. It happens that a significant area of agricultural land grown by farmers unfortunately suffers such damage. This is certainly in line with the situation of farmers who are still affected by these negative weather phenomena. The proposed legislative changes improve the functioning of the Agency and increase the transparency of clearing between the Agency and its service providers, introducing protective measures that benefit agricultural producers who have suffered damage to crops caused by weather conditions, which is of great importance to farmers. High Seym! The Free and Solidarni Circle welcomes this draft law as a substantive project, while asking for it to be referred to further work in the parliamentary committees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u362	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, if any of your fellow Members would like to join the floor, I would like to invite you. I'm closing the list after the first question. Question time - 1 minute. Mrs Lydia Gądek, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u363	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Law and Justice, taking over power in Poland, first decided to satisfy its party activists. This was done, among others. at the expense of the professionalism of institutions such as the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture or the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund. One day, you kicked thousands of people out of work who were tested. Today it turns out that the managing agency or KRUS simply cannot cope in the field, which is not surprising. They cannot quickly and accurately make the right, quick decisions. Therefore, you are introducing a legal option for the head of the district office or the regional director of ARiMR to cede their entitlements to any other employee. It's kind of a joke. There has never been a situation in which the head of the district level would not have fulfilled his responsibilities. Shame, ladies and gentlemen. You didn't have time to prepare HR. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You own the institutions, and now you're gonna use over-the-counter employees whose position and salary will not be held accountable. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u364	Thank you. Mr Waldemar Buda, Law and Justice have the floor. There's no envoy. Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, Kukiz, 15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u365	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have one question. How many officials of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture - this is such a mathematical task - would it have to be slowed down to generate the savings that will be spent on redemptions that are foreseen for the amendment of this law? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u366	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Telus, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u367	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have a question: Do we have data on how many debtors we have that no longer exist - I mean companies, companies or groups - and what is the amount? And do we have the data, how many debtors we have whose debt exceeds 15,000, this amount is between 15 and 40? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u368	Thank you. [[What about the bravo?]] [[Applause]] Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u369	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! One of my predecessors said he was talking about a bloated Byzantine custom at the agency. I think he was referring to the customs that existed there as predecessors. I would like to stress very clearly and appreciate the savings in spending public money, some reasonableness of expenditure and the powers of the new management of the restructuring and modernisation agencies. On the other hand, the question addressed to the Minister concerns the most reasonable mechanism for moving workers to tasks, where they appear, especially in the context of the announced launch of 70% direct payments advances, which the European Commission has also introduced. I would remind you that the agency has found an unprepared IT system and only thanks to the great efforts of the agency's employees have it been possible to withdraw funds that belonged to farmers. There is also a need for hard work for workers now. But also the question addressed to the Minister: Is the agency prepared to implement [[♪ The bell ♪]] the tasks that the European Commission has carried out? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u370	Thank you. Mr Piotr Polak, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u371	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The fact that agreements will be concluded is that there will be some flexibility in the tasks carried out in the neighbouring or located in the area of one county office of agencies is very good. I would just like to ask the Minister whether a decision approving the President is necessary for such an agreement to be important. I think the president of the agency in Warsaw has a lot on his mind and wouldn't it be enough to accept the regional director? That's one thing. I would also like to ask, because here, from the Parliamentary Speaker, we have also heard doubts about the level of earnings that workers of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture receive, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Whereas the decision of the President of the Agency has increased the lowest remuneration of the staff of the county office of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture recently. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u372	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, Civic Platform. [[Oh, sir, you're unprepared.]] [[Some kind of computer shift. Excuse me, Marshal.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u373	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This is a draft law that is a government submission and should therefore be presented with great care and care. I think so, and I don't think I'm alone in that claim. This is a project... And now I'm going to get to the fact. On p. 4 justifications for this project are read in this paragraph: As at 31 December 2015, the debtor's ledger covers 60 cases for the total amount - and here is my question - PLN 60.8 billion, in which there is no possibility of recovery. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: Million.]] [[Voice from the hall: Million, millions.]] Here's a billion. Therefore, I capture this error and ask the question: Is this a printer error, is this a secretary error, is that really the case? It shouldn't have happened. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because it's misleading. Second thing. This bill gives individual powers to officials with a higher level of financial responsibility.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u374	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u375	There are no precise terms in this law regarding the transparency of the President's decision...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u376	Thank you, sir. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u377	...but I think we're gonna finish this on the agricultural committee, it's about precision.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u378	That's right, that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u379	So that this project... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...laws...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u380	You're welcome...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u381	...government...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u382	...Mr. Jerzy Meysztowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u383	...is imprecise.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u384	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u385	Unprecise. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u386	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u387	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I share Mr Polak's concern about the involvement of the President, I guess this is about the President of Nowogrodzka, who really decides everything that is happening in Poland, and some power of attorney at a lower level can really relieve your President. But seriously, Minister, the question is, where did the $40,000 come from?? Is it, indeed, as if it were considered that the lack of value for that amount over the years would result in it being set at such a level? That's the first question. Two. It's about some kind of information about what amounts it's going to be, because it's said to be up to 40 grand, but we don't know how this could go down to the amount of debt next year. I'm guessing the number of people in debt is similar. And the third question. Will the Minister ensure the transparency of these decisions, so that there is no doubt, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Do you think the president or the principal gave a discount or cut off a debt to a friend he liked and didn't cut off the one he didn't like? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u388	Thank you. Mr Edward Sulfur, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u389	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Indeed, the issue of debt enforcement or debt enforcement is very important in the situation of institutions such as the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. As stated in the explanatory memorandum, as at 31 December 2015, 16 362 implementing titles were issued to the tax authorities for the amount of the debt of more than 45 million, while enforcement measures were applied by the tax authorities only in the case of 8223 cases, i.e. half. Now, actually, the question is, were these titles simply poorly prepared, and hence the IRS only half took these cases to be executed, or are there any other reasons? I would like to say something more about the structure of these cases which, in fact, have not been initiated by the tax authorities for execution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u390	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u391	Minister! I have this question: Isn't the creation of a legal basis for the enforcement of certain funds that are being designed in this law the first step to what we have been talking about today, and what Minister Jacek Bogucki has repeatedly stressed, i.e. charges that are likely to be enforced from pre-accepted groups of fruit and vegetable producers - it is about the implementation of the investigation plans to be recognised - that they are to be sent to the budget quickly? Because if you listen to Minister Bogucki's statement, he can't wait to see the potential 700 million zlotys that the European Union is questioning, take them to producer groups and budget them. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u392	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u393	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I still wanted to ask you about this level of 40,000. zł. Here we have this analysis - I think it's very cursory - which shows that the scale of these cancellations is not very large. Therefore, I also wanted to ask whether it is really necessary to raise it so high, to this level of 40,000. zł. It's known, however, that this control of the ministry... later in the ministry, somehow, we're looking at these zlotys a little bit more. Perhaps it is worth maintaining or reducing it a little bit. And the second question - about this aspect of delegation. It is well known that, colloquially speaking, a broom passed through the agency. Question: "Will the workers who have been admitted to the place of these educated, substantive ones manage, carry out this responsibility, and will it not happen?" [[♪ The bell ♪]] Did it make it difficult for us to have a relationship with our citizens? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u394	Thank you. Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u395	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Presumptions, postings, competences, executions - many beautiful legal slogans that make it difficult for ordinary citizens to understand what we are essentially discussing here. Then I will ask straight away, Minister: Is it the intention of the Minister, whether it is the intention of the Law and Justice to take control of the Polish village, over the inhabitants of the Polish village and return to feudalism, one in which there are several hundred feudal masters placed in proper positions in agencies who will have and decide who will have to cancel the tax and who will have to pay it? [[Voice from the room: It's not a tax.]] I'm asking for serious... [[Voice from the room: What tax?]] I ask you to take my question seriously and answer it, because in my opinion, what you are doing, in fact, leads to taking over the Polish village, having full control over it, over the villagers who work hard there. Is that really what this is about? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u396	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Mr Zbigniew Babalski's Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: Coming, Marshal. I had to write it down. I'm sorry.]] [[You don't have to explain.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u397	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! High Seym! Of course, I would like to thank all the participants in this discussion. It's not always easy and pleasant, but we didn't come here to make it easy and fun, just to solve problems. We're trying to solve another problem that we've found with this bill. I'm not gonna be mean, we know who was in charge last time. Therefore, some things need to be sorted out. I will try, Mr. Marshal, also briefly approach matters, and if you do not have enough of my answers, then please report it, I will try to answer in writing, because that may also be so, of course. Individual club appearances - similar situation as in the previous law. Thank you for the words that have been made here, maybe also criticisms, but declarations of work in committees. I don't think one club wants to participate in this project at all, it was clearly visible in the speech. Member of the Civic Platform: in the various offices the work is piled up, whether it is... They're doing it anyway. That is precisely because they do so, because these tasks are really passed on, and the offices that have the opportunity to help at the time do so, we want to formalise it. We're just trying to formalize it. That's just the intention. There were also a number of issues in each speech: an amount of 15 000. PLN and 40,000. zł. It's just... These are threads that used to be repeated. If you look at page 7 in the explanatory memorandum, there is a table, what is the scale of redemptions, the number of cases decommitted. This is the answer to Mr Żmijan, as well as to individual speeches, and in some questions it was also, so I will not go back to that. Number of cases decommitted to 15 000 zł: 2013 - three cases, 2014 - two cases, 2015 - eight cases. A total of 13 cases in the last 1, 2, 3 years. In 2016, we don't have that data yet. In the range between 15,000. PLN a 40,000. by analogy: three cases, five cases, three cases - a total of 11. In the range of over 40,000. PLN 14, 15, 18.37, so a little bit more. However, I will not nevertheless refer to a fellow Member from the Kukiz Group15. I think there was more malice there than a specific, substantive question. There's no friend in the O.R. I can only say that this is not an optimisation of the agency's activities. This is the optimization we're going to do and we're going to present it in a short time. As far as the Agricultural Market Agency and the Agricultural Property Agency are concerned, this will be a completely different stage in the discussion. Mr Suchoń: thank you for these comments and also for your declaration of further work in committee. The comments to be considered, sir, must be during work in committee. The case presented by the representative of PSL, Mr Maliszewski. Mr President, the issue concerns beneficiaries - and you know it very well - especially farmers, including young farmers. The matter concerns the common agricultural policy of the first and second pillars. And that concerns... [[But what exactly is it?]] Specifically... [[Unrealization...]] I'm sorry, I'd ask you because I suspect you've met with such things that farmers come to our offices and even tell us why they couldn't fill in, for example. Or, according to them, they've completed the program that's been imposed, they've got the money, and now they've got it back. These things are going on. I personally had at least a few cases like this. Some could be explained, some just didn't, can only soften up and only could. That's right, that's the kind of thing. [[That kind of thing, right?]] Thank you, too, for the vote of Mr Profits and the declaration of work in committees. Questions that are most often repeated... I'm not going to refer to the pinches that the inconvenient workers, that you just have to move. We will neither move desks nor delegate employees from county to county or from voivodship to voivodship. A system that's working absolutely right now... The cases are, practically speaking, copy, paste, only to each one you have to individually approach. Because we have the electronic system that it is now, there will be no movement of workers, because some people think that we will have to move workers. It's a good thing the delegations aren't here yet. If it is said that they are ill-prepared people who cannot cope with it, then I answer you that in October the payment is started - then Mr Krzysztof Ardanowski's reply immediately - an advance payment of 70%. If we didn't have employees prepared for this, we wouldn't have come up with such a proposal. There is at the end of this stage, in October - a start with payments. You can't deny something and say it's inability, since it's very hard work. I don't want to go back to what we actually found, how the system worked. It worked anyway in time, as far as payouts are concerned... [[Very good.]] ...a tremendous effort also made by those people whose state, some countries, had doubts that the new recruitment would not be possible at all. They've managed perfectly and we'll be fine in the future. How many debtors did Robert Telus ask? 60 cases, this is about 60 million. [[It's in the materials.]] Other people asked that, too, so there's an answer to that right away. I have already answered Mr Ardanowski. The question of how much the wages increased was asked by Mr Polek. This is not the subject of this right now, this law does not regulate these matters. If there are any regulations, we are talking about workers at the lowest level, they will enter into force from 2017. Mr Aichler, once again, I assure you that there is 60 million in the government's submission, not 60 billion. [[But look...]] I'm here to submit a government bill. It says 60 million, so I'm calming you down, it's not 60 billion. If we still have to explain, we'll be more specific at the committee meeting. [[But it says...]] You have ideas, too. We'll look into them. Mr Meysztowicz. Same question, how many cases. 60 million. [[60 cases.]] Why do we want these fumes and when do we do it? Only after the complete path has been exhausted. This is described when you can approach the subject at all when it comes to redemption. The whole path has to be completed. There are appropriate authorities and institutions to comply with this. Mr Sulfur. I'll give you a brief answer, but this is where it goes. Unfortunately, the length of office proceedings makes this case so today, not different. We know that after five years, there is already a statute of limitations. So here it would probably have to be strengthened in some way, not by staff, you suspected the increase of staff, but perhaps by hardware, so that the effectiveness and downloadability would be more visible. Mr Maliszewski. Mr President, I would no longer like to go back to that. Today, at the committee meeting, we have talked many times about this 700 million PLN. Mr Bogucki is not here today. However, if you were to carry out this controversy with him, I would be grateful for that. [[I'll go with him.]] I gave it to the committee at the hearing, and today I confirm that such a punishment is imposed. But I also said that the Polish government does not accept in full the allegations that have been made to us. We are trying to defend Polish fruiters, vegetables, just to try to bring it to a minimum, if necessary. I told the committee at the meeting that if we had the detailed reports described, we would certainly present it at the committee meeting. On this subject, please argue with Minister Bogucki. [[You can't do it with him.]] That's it. I think... Ah, Mr Sochoń. [[Dry.]] Does it have to be like this? Is it 40 grand or less or more? What does that tell you? From the analysis that was conducted. But I repeat, there's an offer of $40,000. zł. It is also a matter of not directly involving the highest official at the level of the Minister of Finance that the Minister of Finance is to make such decisions. I repeat, this amount of 15,000. PLN was established in 2003. Mr Grabowski, I will not refer to this. [[I see.]] First of all, one thing: it's not a tax. This isn't about tax remission, sir, so I think you've made a mistake here. This is about cutting back money from various kinds of schemes that are implemented by farmers, these are not taxes. [[But it's public money.]] That's it. Thank you, Marshal. Thank you, High Sejm. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u398	Thank you, Minister. Mr Zbigniew Ajchler as corrected.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u399	Mr. Marshal! Minister! You've shaved, you've messed up my speech a little bit. Look at the original justification on p. 4. It says what it says, which is the position of over PLN 60 billion. It shouldn't be in the government's submission from the point of view of accuracy written. And the fact that such a position is impossible, of course I know, because the budget of the entire agency is the amount of PLN 30 billion. Therefore, I shyly suggested that this law, although it has its good qualities, is burdened with many events and records which are misleading and should not take place. But at the committee meeting, we can handle it. I think I explained exactly. Thank you very much. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: I take the news, Mr.]] [[Voice from the room: We can do this.]] [[But is it 60 or 30? Billions or millions?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u400	Thank you. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law amending the Act on the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture and the Act on Income Tax on Individuals, contained in print No 794, to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for consideration. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm ordering a five-minute recess. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 18 min. 37 until 3 p.m. 18 min 44]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: First reading of the civil draft law amending the law on income of local government units and some other laws (print No 732). I ask the representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee of Mr Wincent Sławomir Broniar to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u401	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Civil Committee of the Legislative Initiative, I have the honour to present to you and your fellow Members a bill amending the law on the income of local government units and certain other laws, while asking for the support of this key group of teachers of more than 600 thousand cases. Our project is the result of many years of collecting difficult experiences of functioning in legal chaos, struggling with conflicting regulations and lack of elementary responsibility for the existence of the largest professional group in Poland. None of us, also sitting here in the courtroom, can imagine accepting a situation where our employer pays us much less than he should. In short, he cheats us to save on us, sometimes being forced to do so by the budgetary situation. Teachers are no exception here, but we find it difficult to accept a situation where, instead of paying us for hard work, we sometimes hear excuses or unbelievable translations, possibly comments that have nothing to do with reality. In the current legal system, however, it is possible for Parliament to determine the level of teachers' salaries, the Ministry of Education issued detailed decisions and regulations on this basis, the Minister of Finance guaranteed money for this and transferred it to local governments, and the local government spent everything on other than teachers' salaries objectives, e.g. for the construction of plumbing, road renovation or debt repayment. Teachers in protest can at best go to the head of their workplace, i.e. the head of the school or kindergarten, which can at most express regret, because it has a minimal impact on the level of the teacher's salary. The Polish Teachership Association believes that this absurd system, which has been in operation for several years, in which no one is responsible for anything and in which it is possible to steal from the money they owe, must finally be changed. We believe that enough of this sick makeshifter, it is time to make clear who are responsible for paying the teacher's benefits. We're not demanding anything out of the ordinary. As with the salary of the official, the minister, the policeman - the chief officer, the soldier - the minister of defence, and the Member - the Marshal of the Sejm, the teacher's salary must also be responsible for the specific authority of the State. We want it to be the Minister of National Education. And that's actually what our citizens' bill is all about. The decision of how much a teacher earns falls here in this courtroom. It is you who have written in the Teacher's Charter what the average teacher's salary is at each level of professional promotion: an intern's teacher, contract teacher, appointed and certified. You also set the amount of the so-called budget law every year as part of the budget law. the basic amount on which the average remuneration is calculated. You enter the amount of the education part of the general subsidy in the budget bill at the same time. And this huge, because almost PLN 42 billion, the budget column really speaks to the imagination of the public opinion, but we want to point out that these funds are almost entirely devoted to teacher salaries, which, anyway, all citizens of this country know, are not among the highest. Once you decide how much teachers will earn next year, the Minister of Education decides how to distribute the educational grant in a special regulation. This is the basis for calculating how much subsidy money is due to each school authority, mainly to municipalities and powiats. In this way, the money goes to local government accounts, which should distribute it between educational institutions in their territory, so that every principal can pay any teacher and every teacher their salary, which is compatible with them. with education, promotion, internship, number of hours of teaching, but also level of interest in and involvement in work. We're talking about motivational additions here. As you can see, the road that teachers pay is long, full of curves and bumps. No wonder, then, that along the way this and that from a huge 42 billion-dollar pot dies and does not go where it belongs. Unfortunately, this is possible because the educational subsidy is so constructed that the local government of money earmarked for educational purposes, including the salaries of teachers and the maintenance of schools, does not have to spend these funds for these purposes at all. The money from the education grant can come to any choice that has nothing to do with the education of the target. That's what happens. High Izbo! Practically all the time and throughout the country we observe phenomena that I described in the introduction, which show that the management of the educational part of the general subsidy presents many problems, many discussions and arouses many emotions in both teacher and local environments. The Polish Teachers Association is regularly informed by teachers about cases of underpaid salaries, because the mayor or uncle had another, in his opinion a more important goal: repair of the road, renovation of the office or unpaid payment in the bank. In theory, education law provided for a tool to safeguard the interests of teachers - it is the need for local authorities to report annually on the payment of secondary teachers. If, in a given municipality, the funds paid at the various degrees of promotion were lower than those recorded in the card, teachers should be given the so-called. Supplementary allowances, sometimes referred to as the 14th salary, which is incorrect and harmful to the teacher's environment. We're talking about that term. However, as several years of practice has shown, this is not an effective and fair mechanism. Firstly, local authorities often pay underpaid salaries despite the obligation to report, and then delay paying compensation, i.e. that the mechanism is ineffective and poorly self-government disciplines. Secondly, compensation is not always shared fairly and goes to those to whom it should go. The Polish Teachership Association has repeatedly drawn attention to this element. Finally, thirdly, if any of the Members of Parliament would like to receive a salary of 10 and 15% underpaid for 12 months Despite the knowledge that the Sejm Office next year might even out these shortcomings? I don't think so. And teachers have to, but they don't want to accept it either. It is not just us, representatives of the Polish Teachers' Association, who are talking about irregularities at the payment of teachers' salaries and compensations. Our observations are also confirmed by numerous institutions, such as regional accounting chambers, which regularly check the legality of public spending by local governments. According to the latest report of the Regional Financial Chambers for 2015, irregularities in the determination and payment of one-off supplementary allowances for teachers cover every fifth teacher, so every fifth... sorry, every fifth local authority and it is 20% units running schools in our country, which means that teachers employed in these units of local government have to deal with these shortcomings that I have said about - underwage or waiting for additional allowances to be paid. And here are some examples. In the municipality of Dubiecko, Podkarpackie Voivodeship, in 2014 no one-off supplementary allowance was paid to teachers employed in educational institutions for 2013 in a total amount of over 352 thousand. zł. In the municipality of Kielce, Świętokrzyskie Voivodeship, irregularities were found in the calculation and payment of one-off supplementary allowances for teachers. The self-government entered incorrect data on teachers at various grades of promotion in the average payment report, for which the teachers were paid by the diplomat because the supplementary allowance due for the years 2013 and 2014 was reduced by a total amount of PLN 2,702 861. The municipality of Poraj, the Śląskie voivodship, has not been able to transfer money to schools for supplementary allowances in the short term, and therefore schools could not pay one-off allowances for 2012 and 2013. The appropriations for this purpose have only been transferred by officials on 14 February 2013 and 12 February 2014. In the RIO report For 2014, you can read, quote: In addition, in 2014 funds for expenditure for educational units were given in insufficient amounts, by an amount of 1168 thousand. As at 30 June 2014 and 789 thousand. as at 30 September 2014. End of quote. Controllers often encountered cases of funding by local governments from money allocated to schools, teachers of other tasks which have little to do with the education of children. In the municipality of Krypno, the payment of the educational subsidy for January 2014 was intended to finance the hole in the 2013 budget. It was a total of 254 thousand, because the municipality was in debt not, as planned, at 327 thousand, but at an amount of 0.5 million more. In the RIO report stressed, I quote: the difference was financed by spending all the funds remaining on the budget account, including the instalment of the educational part of the general subsidy for 2014, and the debt to the budget account of 400 000. Despite the lack of grounds in the budget resolution to increase the debt in 2013 by this amount to finance the deficit. End of quote. This is why the current Minister of National Education, when asked for an opinion on the initiative of the Polish Teachers Association, says that banks are against it because banks have an interest in it. The debted district of Świebodziński wanted to finance a hole in the budget caused by an out-of-court settlement by means of a loan from the state budget. To this end, he put in place a programme of prudential measures, which means that he cut expenditure on education. Further cases of regional irregularities are described in the report by the Boards of Auditors in the Debt of local government units. Compliance with statutory debt limits and its repayment. Among other things, she found herself in it. the case of the municipality Zbójna, which financed the budget expenditure in 2012. As a result, an expenditure plan was drawn up for 2013, in which revenue was overestimated by more than 250 000. zł. Millowka County performed a similar operation twice. The first time she borrowed more than PLN 0.5 million from subsidies for 2012 and in 2012 more than 790 thousand. zł, already with subsidies for 2013. The reason for such an operation was the difficult financial situation of the municipality. Such operations overwhelmed the real income of the municipality, which in turn allowed the local authorities to borrow higher loans and larger loans. Creative accounting was allowed not only by small towns but also by larger cities. For example, the Siedlce took out almost PLN 0.5 million from the educational grant for 2012 and allocated it to finance the 2011 budget hole. Moreover, the city authorities did so without taking into account the above operation in the accounting and reporting records. According to the Regional Audit Chamber, financing a hole in the government budget or various expenditures e.g. education subsidies are a worrying phenomenon. The report stresses: not all monetary resources available to the local government can be used to finance planned expenditure or budget expenditure. Of course, not in every municipality and not in every county there are such irregularities. Most of the leading bodies - I repeat, most of the leading bodies - try to pay teachers honestly, within time and legally, and they deserve the words of great appreciation, because they sometimes do so at the expense of huge sacrifices. However, the system, as I have shown earlier, is so complicated, so multi-stage and raises problems also for local governments. Suffice it to say that additional expenditure must pay 3/4 of the local government every year. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not a mistake how many dishonest local governments there are, it's a problem of a systemic nature. Therefore, we believe that this complex, chaotic, unfair and abusive system needs to be simplified and basically civilised and unambiguously pointed out that the government and the Minister for National Education, not local governments, are responsible for the payment of teachers' salaries. To this end, we believe that three laws should be amended: the law on the income of local government units, the law on the education system and the Act on the Teacher Charter. It's about the rules on liability for the payment of teachers' salaries. In the Education Act, this means that it is necessary to rewrite the article. Article 5a (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 3 to read as follows: The measures necessary for the implementation of the educational tasks referred to in paragraph. 2 and 2b, including for the maintenance of schools and institutions, are guaranteed in the income of local government units. The resources necessary for the remuneration of teachers in institutions run by local government units shall be transferred by the State through a targeted grant. The Act on the Income of Local Government Units would appear, among others. Article 2 Article 42 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 point 5c, according to which the average salaries of teachers, together with the wage-based write-off funds for the social benefit fund, would be financed by the State in the form of a special subsidy. In addition, the Minister of Education would have the competence to determine annually, by means of a regulation, the amount of the special-purpose grant for the remuneration of teachers, the manner and modalities of granting this special-purpose grant, and to allocate and transfer it to local authorities. Self-governments would only become a cashier paying the teacher a salary according to this solution. The responsibility for salary would fall directly to the Minister of National Education. We are also convinced that the Teacher's Charter needs to be amended. Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 8, which would include the principle that the funds necessary for the remuneration of teachers, together with wage derivatives, the write-down funds for the occupational welfare fund, the funding for the professional training of teachers, including methodological advice, shall be provided by the State by means of a targeted grant. All these changes would have one objective: to restore the State's responsibility for maintaining the dignity of the teaching profession. Yes, High Izbo, it's about dignity over 640 thousand. teachers and teachers as well as the daily existence of them and their loved ones. So that every teacher doesn't have to wonder what his hard-earned salary will go for next month: to support his family, or maybe to support the local authorities. We are convinced that our concept, our proposal is beneficial not only for teachers, but also for the Polish state. The money that you want to spend on education and the future of the youngest generation will go where it should go and not spread out to different sides. Fair local authorities will also benefit from our proposal. A difficult and complex duty to care for the level of teachers' salaries will be removed. After the adoption by the High House of our bill, this task will rest on the shoulders of government and administration in the form of the Ministry of National Education. High Izbo! The solutions we have entered into the civil bill are not some of our own novel ideas. These are standard solutions in most European countries. With any difference in how teachers are employed in other countries of our continent, each country is trying to maintain control over teachers' salaries. In Lithuania, as in Poland, municipalities are the governing body of schools. However, the money for their maintenance is provided by the government, using here, as is our case, a special algorithm. Then the money is transferred to the municipalities' accounts, only not in the form of subsidies, but in the form of grants. The money received must be spent on tasks commissioned by the Lithuanian Ministry of National Education, as well as on the salaries of teachers and other school staff, the purchase of textbooks and teaching aids, as well as the professional improvement of teachers. In Luxembourg educational tasks were divided among others. between central authorities and local authorities. The government deals with e.g. teaching programmes, manuals, framework curricula, teacher training, as well as the budget of primary schools, including the remuneration of teachers employed and employed in those schools. Teachers are directly employed by the Luxembourg Ministry of Education and then posted to work in a specific municipality. On the other hand, the municipality directly supervises the work of schools, recruits pupils to individual classes and evaluates them. In Malta, teachers working in public schools, with two thirds of pupils, are public officials. The Ministry of Education is responsible for practically all important aspects of school activities, including administration, organisation and financing. A teacher with the status of a public official is a European standard. This is the case in Slovenia, for example, where local authorities are responsible only for the administration of kindergartens and primary schools. The same is true in Italy, where the teacher is a public official and the Minister of National Education and representatives of the Ministry in the regions are responsible for education. Also in most German states, teachers are state officials employed by local national ministries of national education. As you go further west, you can look at France, which, according to the Republican tradition, takes close care of schools, including in financial terms. The local government is responsible for the construction and maintenance of public school buildings, while the central government is responsible for education policy, teaching staff and school organisation, including an adequate number of employees. In Latvia, salaries of public school teachers are paid from the state budget, although they are not public officials. Teachers employ schools that impose specific responsibilities on teachers. In Austria, teachers are employed by the Federal Government or the State Government and treated as state officials. It is the government that is responsible for the functioning of the education system, including among others. for the organisation of schools and the remuneration and pension rights. Although in Ireland primary and secondary schools are mostly privately owned, mainly by religious communities, the state is borne by, among others. the cost of teachers' salaries. Technically, teachers employ a school, but the salary money comes from the state budget. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, If our citizens' project succeeds through parliament, schools will have a really good change, which I sincerely wish you, but also to my colleagues. I would also like to thank everyone on this occasion more than 340 thousand. teachers and educational staff who have signed the citizens' initiative, which I am honoured to present to you today. And in favour of the ladies and gentlemen of the House, I count very much. Thank you for your attention. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u402	I would like to thank the representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Lech Sprawka, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u403	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Mr. President! High Izbo! In order to present - because I have this honour - on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice opinion, I would like this opinion to be included in the first sentence, so as to avoid the emotions of the President when I also make critical remarks. The Law and Justice Club, in accordance with the electoral declarations and with what happened during the first months, does not submit and will not support a proposal to reject the project at first reading. We are in favour of directing the project to further process. In addition to this declaration, I would also like to say that I see two very positive elements. The first is that you see that there is a problem in the construction of the financing system itself - and at this point the applicants agree with Minister Anna Zalewska, who announced a very thorough analysis of the financing system and proposals for concrete changes in the summary of the educational debates in Toruń. The second positive observation is based on the first two paragraphs of the justification, where you write in the interest of the budgets of local government units, because there is a direct link to the material situation of teachers. If there are stable finances in the local government, there are fewer risks when it comes to salaries for teachers. Now let's move on to those elements that are either missing or that are not entirely acceptable. The first: like these three voivodships, their local governments, which submitted their opinions, as well as the Polish Towns Association, we share the view that the scope of regulation is absolutely inadequate. There are no relevant changes in the laws concerning local government, i.e. municipal government, district government and local government, but there are also shortcomings in the scope of those laws which the President mentioned, among others. in the Teacher's Charter. Because here it is, Mr. President, at first glance it looks very attractive, you have summoned police officers, uniforms, but please note that there is a consequence: who pays, who hires. There is no legal regulation in this project that says that the Minister, through e.g. The parole officer, he'll be hiring as well. If you leave it in this legal state, then, ladies and gentlemen, the directors would hire whoever volunteered, any number of people, and they would bill you, they would say, please give the money for the salary. This isn't real. There is a second solution in the form of very strict employment standards and certain standards, but, Mr President, I will remind you of the history of regulations about standards, I myself worked on them for several months. I left this in the inheritance of Minister Krystyna Łybacka, who in the first amendment of the Act of the Teacher Card abolished this delegation, and the history of the Regulation on Standards ended. The next issue I would like to raise is that this is not as absurd a system, Mr President, as you have said, because if all the actors involved in the legislative process - from the Ministry, the Government, the Council of Social Dialogue, which is involved in the opinion of the draft budget, and the committee of the common government and the local government - had they all acted ethically and legally, this problem would not have been the case. Because I'd like to remind you of the article. 167 of the Act - para. 1 and 4 - which clearly states that if tasks increase, it should be ensured that local governments have an adequate share of their income. There's an art behind it. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1a, 2 and 3 of the Public Finance Act, which states explicitly: each new task should be carefully valued over 10 years, with the sources of funding specified. This concerns both the state budget, the individual budgets [[♪ The bell ♪]] local government, as well as other organisational units. Those flaws are still...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u404	To the end, sir, come closer. You'll have to stop now, 'cause time's up.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u405	Yeah, I'm almost done. Those flaws are A little more. I've made my point. I'm going to make one more point in the questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u406	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Anna Wasilewska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u407	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club vis-à-vis the citizens' draft law amending the law on the income of local government units and certain other laws. This is printing number 732. The purpose of the bill presented is to separate the special subsidy from the educational part of the general subsidy for total costs for salaries for teachers and income from salaries. Ladies and gentlemen, the current system of financing educational tasks is based on measures from the educational part of the general subsidy. It does not secure the performance of educational tasks by local authorities and they must cover part of the costs associated with the tasks carried out, including tasks related to the remuneration of teachers, from their own resources. It should be stressed that local government units do not have an impact on the level of remuneration of teachers, as this system is based on generally applicable normative regulations - it is the Teacher's Charter and the Pay Regulations. That's why we need change, and we know it very well. These changes should address the problem for the benefit of teachers, in agreement with local self-government units. The citizens' project presented to us raises reservations. Firstly, one of them is concerned that the allocation of the targeted grant will result in a significant reduction of the educational subsidy, which may translate into an even higher level of funding for other educational tasks from the income of local government units. Secondly, the draft law is incompatible with the Municipal Government Act, in particular the Article. 8, and the Public Finance Act. The laws cited state that the own tasks of local government units, such as educational tasks, are financed by general subsidies and self-income of local authorities, while the special purpose grant is financed by tasks contracted or some of its own tasks, but these must be tasks cleared in a given financial year - mostly, in 90%, they are primarily investment tasks. Thus, changes and educational tasks should first be made as own tasks of local government units to be converted into commissioned ones. The projector estimated the financial impact of the proposed amendment on more than 39 billion PLN and these calculations were based on data as at 30 September 2014, without an assessment of the impact of the regulation for the following years. Given the above, we believe that these normative changes are needed, but maybe they should be introduced later and spread over time. The basic argument is that no later than next Friday we are to receive a law that will enable us to learn all the details of the new education reform. We therefore expect specific data, as these should be the basis for possible changes and calculations of the costs of new solutions. Thus, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club proposes that the proposed citizens' bill to amend the law on the income of local government units and some other laws should be directed to work in the parliamentary committees. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u408	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u409	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Dear Applicants! Mr. President! High Izbo! I was honoured to present the opinion of the Kukiz club15 on the citizens' draft law amending the income law of JST. As it happens, I am a teacher, a graduate of the WSP, but today I am an MEP and at the same time head of the local government committee. And when I listened to the words of the applicant, it surprised me a little, because it so happens that today we are leaning over a particular square of a circle. Because how to reconcile financial problems on a national scale - there is a meter nearby, the Balcerowicz counter, which beats one way and does not slow down yet - the financial problems of the state and what is called a subsidy, the local government, which is to realize it here and now, and the teacher environment. In part, what you said to the applicant is very similar to the voice of local government officials, because local government officials say: we will be very happy to give the teachers' salaries to the minister, let the minister pay, keep teachers, and we will take the buildings, all the technical resources and there is no problem, we will be happy. If the minister's in, there's a deal, there's no problem, but no one's gonna go for it. Nobody's going to go for it, because in the local government, ladies and gentlemen, no one asks how much money they're going to make, but how much they're going to pay for it -- how much they're going to add to their education. Because it so happens that education is also much broader - not only that you have to give a teacher a salary, which is right, necessary and here there is no doubt, but this is a building that needs to be maintained, warmed up, these are people who help in the teacher's work, for example. We need to get the kids. Today a huge number of children need to be delivered from the area, because the municipalities are surface large and at the same time than the demographic is inexorable and is today the biggest opponent. That's more than demographic is an opponent of education and this whole system. Ladies and gentlemen! We are leaning on a problem that undoubtedly requires systemic change. Here we would need to change the whole system and we need to answer the question of how to implement it effectively. The question is whether this is feasible. Local government officials knock on the Sejm every year, to the government, also to my committee and say: income, income, why are you cutting our income? Here, the applicant spoke of cases of municipalities which are not at all boastful - I think these are individuals who neglect... [[There's no such thing anymore.]] ...teachers' salary issues. This is not a blessing, ladies and gentlemen, it is rather a cry of despair, because the budget of the commune is the budget of the connected vessels, it is all a certain whole. You can't get the school out of the community system, because there are people living here and now, there's nursery and kindergarten, and school, and culture house, library. It's all one big institution. And now, at this stage, Kukiz15 appreciates your citizens' initiative. We are in favour of this - since this activity is so high and you have collected these signatures, we will support this initiative at a later stage of work in the Parliamentary committees. We'll be in favour of continuing to debate this and looking for a system idea for all of this. At the same time, as head of the Sejm Committee, I will ask your marshals, in addition to referring the draft from print No 732 to the committee of local government, because I would like two committees to lean on this issue at a later stage of work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u410	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Ewa Lieder, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u411	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club on the project, which is a civic project, which is very important, so we need to look at it a little differently. The aim of this project is primarily to ensure that the financial resources for the payment of salaries to teachers are adequately secured, in order to replace the change in the financing of teacher salaries from the educational formula of the general subsidy to the targeted subsidy. Modern support this idea, but above all supports citizens' initiatives and public involvement in governance. We believe that political parties should activate citizens in order to ensure the best possible functioning of civil society. We hope that the ruling party will eventually take into account the voice of the public and start to count on it. It is essential that there is certainty in the financing of teachers' salaries, which is not in the current legal state. This will enable the proper functioning of the education and education system in our country. In the current state of law, the financing of educational tasks is one of the tasks of local self-government units, which are partly financed by the State in the form of general education aid. The resources allocated to the payment of salaries to teachers are not adequately secured, as is apparent from the fact that there is no obligation to settle them for the purpose of their use. Therefore, nothing prevents them from being spent on other projects. In view of this, consideration should be given to ensuring supervision of their spending with a view to their use. For a long time, local authorities have pointed out that the resources earmarked for this purpose are insufficient, as are the local government's own income. At this point, it is problematic to ensure the payment of salaries guaranteed by law. The Polish Teachers' Association signalled the problem of trying to circumvent the provisions of the Teacher's Charter, which may result in the privatisation of schools by handing them over to organisations such as associations and foundations. Such a procedure makes it possible to circumvent the obligation to apply the provisions of the Charter as they apply only to teachers employed in public schools. Unlawful practice may be interrupted by modification of the rules on the financing of educational tasks. The proposed changes, consisting of a partial transfer of the burden of funding from local government units to the state budget, can ensure better implementation of educational tasks. However, this project will not fully address the problems of local government units relating to the financing of teachers' salaries, as the proposed law provides for the provision of funds in the State budget under the special subsidy and transfers in this form to the authorities running schools which are self-government units under the procedure laid down in Article. Article 28 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 8a Law of 13 November 2003 on the income of local government units. Local authorities argue that the project does not support the fact that it does not take into account all the costs of running public education or the impact assessment of the proposed changes on the education system. In the context of this law, there is a clear dissonance between the expectations of the Polish Teachership Association and local authorities. Self-governments fear that the separation of the targeted grant will result in an increase in the financial contribution from the self-income of local governments to the other educational tasks. The proposals from local governments are to separate the payment of teachers' salaries into a separate task of being commissioned or to divide the education subsidy separately into the performance of educational tasks and the remuneration of teachers of schools and institutions run by local self-government units. The problem is the disparities in the financial situation of the municipalities. Richer local governments are better at spending on education, which is simply discriminatory for students going to schools in poorer municipalities. It is modern in favour of directing the project to work in committees and here I absolutely agree with Kukiz15 that the project should be addressed to both committees, namely education and local government. Account must be taken of the harmonisation of educational opportunities in the name of social justice and the elimination of the so-called. white spots, i.e. places where the level of education is the result of backwards. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u412	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Krystian Jarubas, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u413	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Dear President, Dear Applicants! Dear Visitors to the Gallery! Today I took part in the honour of presenting the position of the club of the Polish People's Party concerning a civic project on amending the law on the income of local government units and some other laws. Ladies and gentlemen! The initiative concerns a change in the rules for paying teachers' salaries. The funds would come from the state budget and not, as it is now, from the educational subsidies available to local governments. In our opinion, this is a good direction. On the one hand, it will relieve the burden of local governments, on the other hand it will give teachers a state guarantee. Such a change would also have a positive impact on the quality of education. Self-governments would still receive educational subsidies for other tasks, but after the new access to the public school would no longer depend on the wealth of the host body, i.e. self-government. Suggestions of the Polish Teachers' Association that the proposal to pay a salary from the state budget will also provide a clear answer to the question of who takes responsibility for the amount of the teacher's salaries should be considered correct. To this end, the proposed novel in a broader perspective may hinder the transfer of public schools to external actors. A separate issue is the budgets of local governments. For 10 months it's hard not to get the impression that the PiS intentionally destroys them. Because of the decision of Minister Anna Zalewska to leave six-year-olds in schools, local communities will lose about PLN 1.5 billion. All due to the difference between the pre-school grant, which is PLN 1370 and the subsidy for the student, which is PLN 5357. [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]] In return to the proposal proposed by the Citizens' Committee, the PSL Club will be in favour of a draft revision of the rules on the remuneration of teachers for further work on the committee. At the same time, I would like to remind you of the promises of the current electoral campaign. The PiS declared that it would treat citizens' projects with great appreciation and respect. I would remind you that there is a citizens' retirement project in the Seym after 40 years of work. I hope that most of the parliament will not block the work on this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u414	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, Circle of Members of Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u415	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarni Circle, I have the honour to present our position on the citizens' draft law amending the law on the income of local government units. The project under investigation envisages a change in the rules for funding educational tasks. According to the amendment of the law, local government units would receive special grants for the running of educational units. The proposed bill raises a lot of controversy. On the one hand, we have a citizens' project, whose introduction is called for by a large group of citizens, and, for example, it should be continued. On the other hand, the project was negatively assessed by the marshals of Pomorskie and Zachodniopomorskie voivodships. The amendment of the law would primarily help local authorities to adequately secure funding for educational tasks. However, local government officials show that the funding provided for in the Act will further reduce the amount that they will have at their disposal for educational tasks. The aim of the proposed regulation is to safeguard the welfare of school and kindergarten workers, Polish teachers. I agree with the argument raised in the explanatory statement that the Polish teacher should be rewarded with dignity, although I am not convinced that he is worthy only in accordance with the Teacher's Charter. The Teacher's Charter is a relic that does not fully conform to the present and should be changed. I am absolutely convinced of this fact. However, as long as there is such a system and not another system, local authorities are obliged to comply with it. Certainly, it is not at this stage of the discussion that it is advisable to assess whether the arguments raised by the projectors have their validity or, as the Polish City Association points out, they are a lying discourse. However, it is undoubtedly important to ensure that public educational institutions remain public and that teachers who work in them are properly, properly rewarded. I am convinced that only further discussion on this issue will help to resolve the doubts. It is worth discussing the amendment proposed by the Marshal's Office of the Małopolska Voivodship. The Free and Solidarni Circle, hoping for further substantive discussion, will vote in favour of further proceding the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u416	Thank you, Member. Would any of your fellow Members like to join the questions? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u417	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that 40 billion PLN is spent annually on teachers' salaries. Self-governments for their salaries paid with educational subsidies pay an average of 15% . On the other hand, these poorer municipalities and powiats often fail to cope with tasks such as funding the running of schools and educational establishments. I know how many schools are eliminated in my region for economic reasons. It often saves on teachers' salaries and their derivatives. Significant differences in teachers' salaries in individual schools not only cause discussion, but also animosities and bad moods among this professional group and in society. Therefore, I would like to ask the representatives of the Ministry of Education and Finance: Will the possibility of increasing education subsidies to a level that will ensure proper funding for all educational tasks be considered in the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u418	Thank you, Member. I invite Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u419	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The citizens' bill meets the expectations of local governments, which are overly burdened with the need to finance education in their municipalities. The need for funding from year to year is increasing. This often happens in geometric progress and exceeds the possibilities of the municipality. Full coverage of the cost of teaching staff from the state budget is fully justified. At present, the municipalities pay for salaries, according to my knowledge, which is slightly different from that of the Member who spoke to me, about 25%, and I say this on the basis of the situation in Jelenia Góra and cities of similar size, and they finance the entire cost of maintenance of facilities and infrastructure. This is about PLN 40 million per year, of which 26 million is the cost of salaries. At the same time, the Minister of Education is very keen to speak about the increase in salaries for teachers in 2017 and the maintenance of the level of employment, while the draft 2017 budget does not secure financial resources for this purpose. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u420	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u421	I ask for an answer on how to fulfill these promises.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u422	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Elizabeth Duda, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u423	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! In the justification of the proposed citizens' bill, you can read about unlawful actions by local authorities in the context of their escape from the Teacher's Charter. However, the Teachers' Charter protects the budgets of local governments, determining the level of remuneration of teachers in public institutions. In the light of the existing provisions of the Law on the Education System, the question of the remuneration of directors who are natural persons is not regulated, so a non-public grant body can only settle the grant with its remuneration. In response to my interpellation of 14 June this year. The Ministry of Education declared its intention to limit the remuneration of employees of these institutions, which may be covered by a grant transferred from the local government budget pursuant to Article. 90 law on the education system. In view of the above, I would like to ask the Minister such a question: At what stage is the work going on? [[♪ The bell ♪]] the necessary changes?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u424	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Waldemar Buda, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u425	Dear Marshal! Minister! Mr. President! High Izbo! I have a question for the applicant's representative, the president. How would the Ministry of Education be able to verify the expenditure of the special subsidy proposed by the States or how it would verify its calculation if, for example, it had been possible to do so. Did the local government come to the conclusion that there are three teachers in one class? In such a case, would these tasks and these salaries also have to be financed through a targeted grant? If actually transferred funding from self-government expenditure, financing, among others. by a subsidy, to the government, in principle this law would have to have 200 pages, because it would have to set up a whole system to strengthen the role of the State in financing and controlling the spending of this subsidy. The President pointed to other countries. It's true, there are solutions, but they're built up in a whole system. Just like the doctors. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Minister of Health doesn't pay, and the teachers don't pay the Ministry of Education, but that's the job... It's also spent, funded by local expenditure...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u426	Finish your work, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u427	...with the government's support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u428	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Lech Dobka, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u429	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Mr. President! The following question: Do you not think that it was a mistake in 2003 to define such a definition of determining the educational part of the general subsidy in Article. The 28th Income Act of JST, when the SLD-PSL coalition ruled? Could changing this article to a link to the country's economic development eliminate this discretion? Next question: Do you regret when a very good mechanism was developed when there was a very good definition of President Kwasniewski's veto on the income law of the JST? And one last question. In the system of remuneration, it is sufficient in Article. Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 take out of the defined average salary sub-paragraph 4 and the other ingredients are [[♪ The bell ♪]] so precise and interconnected that there wouldn't be any of the problems you mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u430	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u431	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm gonna go straight to the petitioner's question about the citizens' bill. In your view, is it true, as the government's explanatory memorandum states, that the adoption of a law to the extent presented will deprive the local government of freedom and will prevent policy-making taking into account local circumstances and educational needs? The acquisition of the funding of salaries by the central administration would have to be linked to the acquisition of control over many decisions taken in the field of education by the local government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u432	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Małgorzata Zwierzan, Free and Solidarni. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u433	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister. In connection with the contested bill, as well as with the numerous information reported by local government units, I would like to ask whether the government plans to increase the funding of local government units in the new budget so that they are more free to carry out educational tasks imposed by normative acts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u434	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Piotr Cieślinski, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u435	Dear Marshal! Minister! Mr. President! Dear Applicants! The proposed project envisages a change in the financing of educational tasks for schools and institutions run by local self-government units. The change consists in financing teachers' salaries from a special grant rather than from the general grant given to local governments, as has already been mentioned on several occasions. Therefore, the question arises. Because there's a speech in the project. just about schools run by local governments, I would like to ask how non-public schools will be financed in the context of this project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u436	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u437	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Mr. President! I have a question. Of course, it is modern in favour of considering all civic projects without undue delay, but in this case we have a problem, because the demolishment of the entire education system announced by Minister Zalewska can also change the system of financing Polish education. Wouldn't it be good for both of these projects to be carried out in parallel when we find out what the concrete assumptions of the reform of Ms Zalewska are, in order to match the methods of financing teachers' salaries with this new formula? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u438	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Edward Siarka, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u439	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Of course, we can discuss the different philosophy of funding education. Everyone could probably cite some examples in this matter, but as a man who has been a self-government for many years, I must say that the question of counting educational subsidies has always aroused some emotions. One of the elements was mentioned here, among others. Mr Lech Dobka. We have many such points there, which in fact determine the amount of subsidies in individual municipalities, but in some cases we have to make it clear to ourselves that wage problems are also due to the policies of local governments themselves, which have made very serious mistakes. It is enough that the governor does not pay attention to the issue of, for example, the school network, does not pay attention to the way in which individual branches are divided, that simply [[♪ The bell ♪]] There is no proper cast when it comes to children, or, let's say, it is enough that individual teachings are built up. These are very specific issues that need clarification. Can this whole problem be dealt with in isolation from all educational problems, Minister? I think it's just too serious for us to...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u440	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u441	...in this context they only discussed the issue of remuneration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u442	Thank you, sir. For questions... The State Secretary at the Ministry of National Education, Ms Teresa Wargock, will speak. [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of National Education Teresa Wargock: Marshal, there is a position of the government towards a civil project.]] Okay, thank you. [[Secretary of State at Teresa Wargock's Ministry of National Education: There will be no answer to questions, but I will speak on behalf of the government.]] Okay, thank you, but there were also questions addressed to the Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education Teresa Wargock: I will be in two roles.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u443	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Applicant's Representatives! I have the honour to present to the High House the position of the government in relation to the citizens' draft law amending the law on the income of local government units and certain other laws contained in print No 732. The draft law amending the law on the income of local government units and certain other laws, drawn up by the Civic Committee of the Legislative Initiative, concerns changes in the article. 28 and Article 28 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 42 Law on the Income of Local Government Units, Art. 5a Act on the Education System and Art. 30th Teacher Card Act. In the current legal state, the way and sources of funding for educational tasks are laid down by the Law on the Education System and the Teacher Charter. According to art. Article 5a (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: The 3th Education Act provides the means necessary for the performance of educational tasks, including the remuneration of teachers and the maintenance of schools and institutions, are guaranteed in the income of local government units. In addition, in accordance with Article. Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 8 The Teacher Charter Law measures necessary for the average salaries of teachers together with wage derivatives, the write-down funds for the occupational welfare fund and the funding for the professional training of teachers, taking into account methodological advice, are guaranteed by the State in the income of local government units. Revenues of local government units pursuant to Art. Article 16 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Constitutions are own income, general subsidies and special subsidies from the state budget. One of the revenues of local government units is the educational part of the general subsidy. In accordance with the Article. 27 and Article 27 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). The 28th Act on the Income of Local Government Units The size of the The amount allocated to the education part of the general subsidy for all units of local government shall be set at the total amount of the education part of the general subsidy, not less than that adopted in the budget law in the base year, adjusted by the amount of other expenditure for the modification of the educational tasks carried out. The distribution of part of the general subsidy between municipalities, powiats and local governments of voivodships - after deduction of the statutory reserve - shall be carried out in a manner determined by the Minister responsible for education and education in a regulation issued pursuant to Article. Article 28 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 Act on the income of local government units. The citizens' bill envisages changing the system of financing teachers' salaries to a system based entirely on a targeted grant from the state budget. To this end, the project promoters propose to add to the catalogue of their own tasks, for which these entities may receive special subsidies from the State budget, the payment of teachers' salaries. The Constitution requires the legislator to maintain the proportion between the size of the income of the JST and the extent of their educational changes. By establishing the power of the local government to act on the basis of its own budget and on its own behalf, the basic law establishes at the same time a generalised source of coverage for the financing of tasks relating to the implementation of the laws, leaving the key decisions to the authorities constituting the local government units. There is one generalised source of funding for the local government's own tasks - these are total revenue: own income, subsidies, grants. As indicated above, the revenues of local government units are precisely these sources. This means that both the basic law and the ordinary law do not create legal solutions that allow certain sources of income to be allocated to specific expenditures in terms of education. The method of financing educational tasks is linked to the freedom of local self-government units in shaping educational policy in their territory, including among others. the right to decide on the level of employment in their schools, as well as the level of certain allowances for teachers' salaries. Local government units, when deciding on education, have an impact on the level of funding of tasks resulting from their decisions. The State budget may not cover the costs of the tasks set out in the decisions of the local authorities. The acquisition of remuneration by the central administration would have to be linked to the acquisition of control over many educational decisions, which would result in the need to develop educational standards. At the same time, such an action would deprive the local government of the freedom to carry out its own tasks and would prevent policy-making taking into account local circumstances and needs. Taking over the funding of teachers' salaries by the central administration while maintaining the local authorities' competence to decide on the level of employment and on the level of certain wage allowances could lead to an uncontrolled increase in the employment of teachers in schools and, consequently, to a huge and unpredictable burden on the state budget. In addition, the government recognises project irregularities, serious substantive errors of justification and legislative errors. We note the overestimation of about PLN 2 billion of the financial impact of the proposed changes by indicating excessive data on the number of teachers' posts, the underestimation of the amount of the rural allowance, the overestimation of the impact of the occupational social benefit fund, the miscalculation of funds for the professional improvement of teachers, the failure to include in the calculation of funds for the payment of income from salaries, the failure to include in the calculation of funds transferred by local government units above the average remuneration resulting from Article. 30th Teacher Card Act. In addition, there is no specific guidance on the content of the regulation to which the project promoters have authorised the Minister responsible for Education and Education. The draft law does not specify the rules according to which the allocation of the funds of the special subsidy is to be made. At the same time, it should be noted that the introduction of the proposed system of funding for education in the form of targeted grants from the state budget would have to entail a significant administrative burden on the part of the school authorities and institutions. Such a system raises the issue of not only the calculation of grants and the associated formalities by imposing further administrative obligations, but also the question of clearing grants and controlling the use of grants, which would require an additional, substantial amount of work and would therefore involve the extension of the bureaucratic apparatus and additional administrative financial burdens. The change in the system of financing the remuneration of teachers, including the transfer of huge resources to local governments in the form of a targeted grant, would not be in line with the European Charter of Local Self-Government, ratified by Poland in 1994, which indicates that special grants should be limited from the sources of funding for local self-government units. In the legal financial literature, it is stressed that the state budget special grants for the financing of current own tasks should play a limited role among the sources of revenue of the local government unit. The main justification for the proposed change in the system of funding educational tasks was the problem of school closures and their transfer to other entities in order to circumvent the provisions of the Teacher Card Act. It is a fact that in recent years some local government units have liquidated their schools, while including schools run by other entities into the public school network or agreeing to the functioning of non-public schools established in place of closed-down local schools. In order to prevent these actions, in the draft amendment of the Law on the system of education prepared in agreement with the Ministry of National Education, from 23 January, the condition for the liquidation of a local public school is to pass, to obtain a positive opinion of the curator issued by order. This means that it is impossible to close the school without the guardian's positive opinion. These solutions are in line with the request formulated by the Polish Teachers Association to strengthen the role of education curator in terms of its impact on the implementation of the compulsory task of self-governments associated with the running of kindergartens, schools and institutions. In addition, the Law of 23 June 2016 amending the Law on the Education System and certain other laws introduced amendments to local government units which all their self-government schools have provided for the conduct of natural or legal persons regarding the payment of grants to these institutions in the amount of expenses per pupil of the type and type of school run by the nearest unit and not in the amount of grants received. The regulations of 23 June 2016 were absolutely discouraged by local governments, which pass on local schools, all they have in their territory. Minister of National Education on 27 June this year. in Toruń, during a conference summarizing the nationwide debate on the school system. Parents. Teacher - A good change has presented comprehensive plans for changes in the area of education. The government recognises the need to analyse and discuss with interested environments, in particular representatives of teachers' trade unions and representatives of local government units, detailed solutions to issues related to the professional status of teachers, including issues related inter alia. with employment conditions, qualifications, pay and promotion systems, working time, and discussions on financial support for small schools. Accordingly, the Minister for National Education, in the framework of the work of the Social Dialogue Council, called for the establishment of a professional team for education. The aim of the team will be to develop together the best possible solutions, suitable for contemporary economic and social conditions, and at the same time to motivate teachers to improve their own workshop to improve the quality of education and education according to the needs of the young generation. In conclusion, I would like to say that there is one general source of funding for the tasks of local self-government units - these are total revenue. The method of financing educational tasks is linked to the freedom of local self-government units in shaping educational policy in their territory. Local government units, when deciding on education, have an impact on the level of funding of tasks resulting from their decisions. The State budget may not cover the costs of the tasks set out in the decisions of the local authorities. The acquisition of remuneration by the central administration would have to be linked to the acquisition of control over a number of educational decisions, which would result in a restriction on the discretion of local authorities. Such actions would deprive the local government of freedom, would prevent policy-making taking into account local circumstances and needs. In view of the above, the government is negative about the citizens' draft law amending the law on the income of local government units and certain other laws. During the debate on the draft at this point of the Sejm, most of the questions raised by your Members were addressed to the Minister for National Education. I understand that in the High House there is a great need to talk about the funding of education, the professional status of teachers, the position of teacher, there is a need to address this important problem, which is the income of local government units in terms of running, maintaining schools, kindergartens and institutions. I don't think this is the time or place to answer the question of whether the Minister expects an increase in subsidies. It's not that simple, ladies and gentlemen. We need to talk about this. I hope that a trilateral table will be set up, where trade unions and local government and the Minister of Education must be located, because only in such a group of developed solutions can be leading, can be implemented and in agreement, so to speak, presented in the High House. Of course we are ready to talk, there are other forms, other points of work of the Sejm, there are current information, questions on current issues, we are also at your disposal. In connection with your club speeches, I assume that the citizens' project will also be addressed to the committee. We are also ready to talk, to analyze and really very much to say that we are looking for the best solutions for financing, but also for the functioning of education in Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u444	Thank you very much, Minister. A representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee, Mr Wincenty Broniar, will speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u445	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Maybe I'll start with the Minister's speech. Thank you so much for this extensive lecture. It seems to me, however, that I am affected by some relativism which emerges from it, because since you say that the state budget cannot cover the tasks created by the local government units, it should not be created and shaped by reciprocity by the state policy of such decisions, for which the local government must pay for, because the expenditure related to the withdrawal from the reform of six-year-olds, now is the announcement of the liquidation of secondary schools, in the wake of today's information from local authorities will require expenditure of about PLN 120 billion, as the representatives of the county union say. So this is the money that represents three times the subsidy for all educational tasks. I would like to thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, in a special way, Mr Dobrze, but I would also like to see that there is no such thing as Krasicki's fairytale, friends, where the hare dogs have eaten among their dear friends. I hope, however, that this constructive debate in the committee will bring the expected solutions, not so much by the Polish Teachers' Union, but by the teacher's community. Allow me to address a few points. I was not all able to write it down, but I would like to draw attention to the fact that Mrs Anna Zalewska in Toruń has indeed announced many changes. Some concern, some fear, some need to spend huge sums to cover these measures. In this context, there must be a question, which has also been raised in this Chamber today, from where local government units are to take about PLN 550 million for the valorization of teachers' salaries in 2017. This amount will also have to be added to the increase in the remuneration of teachers of pre-school education, which is the task of their own local government. We are also looking for support for local government units so that we do not have to go back to the root of the problem that we are talking about today, that local governments have to bear the costs of decisions that are not entirely their decisions. I share the opinion that the employer's problem in a formal, legislative sense is extremely difficult. In fact, the employer is a school, the director is the head of the workplace, he has a very limited level of competence in wage formation. It seems that we should also try to make some changes in this matter. As for this moment referred to by your Member on the standards of Mrs Łybacka, it seems that this was because small schools suffered. It was a matter of justification at the time. [[Now, too.]] [[Secretary of State at Teresa Wargock's Ministry of National Education: Always, now too.]] However, I will draw attention to the fact that at present small schools are also in a very dramatic situation, because over 500 have been eliminated in recent years. The liquidation or transfer of these schools to authorities other than self-governments is primarily due to the economic effect. On the other hand, you are right that this change, this situation that was in 2003, the consequences of these changes also affect today. But let me remind you that in 2002 there was a grant for teachers' salaries. As far as I remember, although it was 14 years ago, these salaries were financed from the budget in the form of a targeted grant. On the other hand, we cannot abstract in this discussion from the fact that we struggled with a powerful Bauca hole in 2001-2005, which also had a significant impact, among others. for our wages. I agree with you that if we are more factually, more constructively, but also with such empathy for both teachers and self-government, we will be able to deal with this problem much more effectively, and less doctrinally and less politically, we will probably be able to solve this problem much more effectively. You need standards, no one's denying that, but standards that will correspond to the school's tasks. On the other hand, if we bring up ideas about the standards of the year, I'm sorry, 1993 in the framework of the "Good and modern school," these standards today would be impossible to maintain even from the point of view of existing conditions, including demographic conditions. We would also like, and it is as if the essence of this idea, to finally count how much teachers pay, because in 2015 local governments, at least so said at their congress, added - although this is a statement that we do not fully accept, because it is, in our opinion, an investment in local communities - invested an additional PLN 11 billion over those tasks that are assigned to them, i.e. 22,23% the subsidy value. These are huge renunciations of local governments, which must also be noticed during the debate on our project. Of course, every time Katon's comment on Carthage comes back a discussion about the Teacher's Charter, but let me remind you that the Act, which was probably more frequently amended than the Teacher's Charter, is the Act on personal income tax. The charter has been updated about 40 times until today, and the Companies Act was probably from 1934. She was 50 years older than the Teacher's Charter and somehow we successfully carried out the transformation process on the basis of the 1934 Law. I repeat, the union does not treat the card as a dogma. We have discussed this subject many times. The Charter is the property of the Sejm and the union is ready for discussion on this subject, but a hot request to the ladies and gentlemen of Members: let us try to read this document comprehensively, let us not simply find out what is necessary for us, because the card protects the student's interest from the point of view of the quality of the educational offer. As far as the article is concerned. The 30 that Mr Dotka was talking about, here is a full consensus about what you were talking about. We do not interfere, contrary to what some states have said here, with the competence of the local government unit. We're just talking about local government and financial guarantees... sorry, for local governments, so that they don't have to settle a dilemma about what even involves a supplement, and what is the consequence of a deep underfinancing of local governments' budgets from the point of view of teachers' wages. There was a question about non-public schools. Here the remuneration is determined by the host authority and he is responsible for the amount of such remuneration. But let's remember that parents' tuition is also included in this. I also have a question for the High House: Why did Parliament withdraw from covering the costs that were used to cover the costs of remuneration and introduce an average remuneration parameter? This is the essence of today's problem of many, many local government units, because if in a given municipality we have teachers with a high degree of promotion themselves, teachers with a diploma, with a high degree of internship, then necessarily the averages that are included in the law are not included in the budget of the municipality. She really needs to finance these teachers and has big financial problems for that. The liquidation of schools and the link with the opinion of the school curator, although it is a way out to meet the expectations of the union in terms of strengthening the curator as a pedagogical supervisor, is in our view also an interference in the autonomy of the local government. And recalling this as an element of the functioning of the educational system, as in the case of interference in self-government expenditure, is striking us with relativism. Finally, according to the Sejm Analysis Office's opinion on compliance with European law, our law on amending the income law of JST and other laws is not covered by European law and I do not think, also in the context of what I have been talking about, given the experience of other countries, that we should violate any standards or standards. Once again, I would like to thank the High House for its comments. I hope that, indeed, the local government committee and the education committee will bow down to these problems raised by teachers. This is the best, most educated, most creative and competent professional group, with great potential, and it seems that it deserves that the discussion of its remuneration is not a discussion of the nature in which it has been held so far, and that we can say that the Polish teacher is earning decently. And the word "fair" here is appropriate to the expectations of our environment, but also to the opportunities and potential of our country. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u446	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer to the citizens' draft law amending the Act on the income of local government units and certain other laws, contained in print No 732, to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and to the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: Report on the activities of the Supreme Audit Chamber in 2015 (Print No 618) together with the opinion of the Commission for State Control (Print No 671). I ask the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber of Mr Krzysztof Kwiatkowski to present a report. The president's not here? [[Voice from the gym: Mr. President is on his way. He's coming.]] [[Wait a minute.]] I would like to ask the President to present a report.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u447	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, please. High Izbo! The Constitution of the Republic of Poland requires the Supreme Audit Chamber to submit an annual report on the activities of the Chamber to the Polish Sejm. In doing so, I have the honour to present to the High House a document presenting the activities of NIK in 2015. In 2015, the Council The Supreme Audit Chamber has carried out and completed 117 planned inspections in areas with a decisive impact on the quality of life of citizens and the sustainable development of the country. In addition, the House also carried out a review of the implementation of the State budget in 2014 with the managers of 111 budgetary parts and directly using public funds. The audit included additionally 11 local colleges of review, two prosecutors' offices and six elected district attorneys. The House also audited three appeals courts and three elected district courts. In addition, the Supreme Audit Chamber, in addition to the planned audits and budgetary control I mentioned, also carried out 144 ad hoc checks. They respond to signals of possible irregularities from both parliamentarians, institutions, media and citizens. The most, because 47 inspections were complaints checks arising directly from citizens' notifications, including Members and Senators. In order to carry out the few hundred controls I mentioned earlier, in 2015 The House carried out 2.5,000. unit control in 1980 entities. Some of these entities have been checked several times, in particular ministries or central offices. Hence, this number is slightly less than the number of entities audited. For some actors, as I said, the multitude of these issues resulted in more frequent checks. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In view of the checks carried out in 2015, the Commission concluded that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the The House submitted 205 information to the Sejm and this is about 20 information, i.e. 10% , more than in the previous year. Most of the information sent to the Sejm was presented and discussed during meetings of the Sejm committees. On the basis of the results of the audits carried out by NIK, the Sejm committees adopted 17 deniers at the government and other bodies. [[President of the Supreme Audit Chamber illustrates his speech with slides]] In 2015, representatives of NIK participated in a total of 637 meetings of the Sejm committees. During 60 meetings of the Sejm committees, information was presented on the results of the audits carried out by the Chamber. As you can see, this possibility of contact with you is a permanent possibility and often the Sejm committees deal with reports from individual NIK inspections. A special place in contact with the Sejm, of course. Commission for State Control. In 2015, representatives of the House attended 30 meetings of this committee. When submitting the results of its audit studies at committee meetings, NIK carries out its constitutional and statutory obligations regarding informing the Polish Sejm and its authorities about the state of public affairs. I would also like to stress that the NIK in the audit information points to shortcomings, errors, abuses, and evaluates positive actions and good practices. In examining the various institutions and issues, the House has accumulated a great deal of knowledge over the years, which is properly used as a useful tool for improving the state. The House is not limited only to diagnosing the situation, but often, in the formulation of systemic conclusions and de lege ferenda, suggests solutions beneficial to the state and society. In 2015, the Council The Supreme Audit Chamber in 40 information on the results of the audit concluded 87 proposals de lege ferenda, of which 68 related to the revision of the statutory status and 19 concerned amendments to the provisions of the Regulations. Legislative proposals pointing to the need for certain changes in legislation - I am talking about this a little bit more about the fact that this country, as parliamentarians later, has been preparing and adopting these changes in legislation in Parliament - were, among other things, concerned. financial and investment economy, including the economy of seaports of fundamental importance for the national economy, supervision of public marketing of financial instruments, implementation by state entities of tasks relating to the protection of the Polish cyberspace, organisation and financing of border crossing points, financial situation of the Mazowieckie voivodship, financial management of State Forests, performance of selected tasks by the Road Transport Inspection, taking into account the functioning of Central Recording of Infringements, carrying out tasks of measuring and legalising measuring equipment, restructuring of Polish Post, management of the oldest resources of municipal buildings, social assistance to refugees, enforcement of law against entities operating in the field of mutual betting, protection of trees in investment processes, treatment of waste water generated in spas, subsidies for non-public artistic schools and supervision of these schools, external examination system in the education or safety of children and youth recreation. A total of 55 de lege ferenda applications were completed in 2015. And I would ask that you possibly note that 2015 against the background of previous years is a period of exceptional activity in the implementation of these proposals. I am pleased to note that the last 3 years, i.e. the period during which I come to direct the work of the House, and already in a special way in 2015, are the period during which the greatest number of requests de lege ferenda in the history of the Chamber have been realized. Of course, I would like to stress once again: by the wording, I have been able to implement de facto the words of thanks to you and your fellow Members, because these are the works that you, on the basis of the NIK reports, have adopted in the form of appropriate legislative proposals. I would, of course, like to stress that legislative work is a process that is spread over time. The conclusions drawn in previous years were also implemented in 2015 and 2016. According to our data as of 30 April 2016, around 80, representing 34% of the requests submitted in 2013 and 2015 amounted to 233. and this factor is significantly higher than in previous years. Ladies and gentlemen! The Supreme Audit Chamber in accordance with the NIK Act shall carry out its tasks on the basis of the annual work plan which shall be submitted to the Sejm. Control planning is one of the most important stages of the control process, serves to define precisely the areas of audit, as well as the optimal use of the House's resources, and thus to reduce the cost of control. The audit planning process is preceded by the identification of the areas of activity of the State under scrutiny by the House, which have a decisive impact on the standard of living of citizens and on the sustainable development of the country. This process uses both the conclusions of previous audits and the documents relating to the current work of the Sejm and the Senate and the complaints and conclusions of the NIK. We, of course, enter our controls into the so-called. horizontal risks. We treat your conclusions in a slightly different way. They do not need to be included in horizontal risks, because if the Sejm authority adopts an appropriate resolution, such control shall be carried out by the Chamber. But I stress very strongly and with satisfaction - because on this subject there was also a discussion in the Parliamentary Commission for State Control - that these checks, which are the checks planned by the House, fit into horizontal risks, which are in the relevant House documents. The very important thing is that in 2015 it reached NIK more than 7.5 thousand. requests for control by citizens. Why do I stress this very strongly? As you will pay attention to the slide, in the last year before I came to the House such proposals were significantly less, now this number has increased significantly. We also take this as an expression of confidence in the work of the Supreme Chamber of Control by citizens, which is of course very important from the point of view of the chief constitutional state control body. We take this as an expression of confidence in our institution, and therefore with great satisfaction we present this increase in requests made to the House by ordinary citizens. The 2015 NIK activity report, including the report, discusses the most important of 144 planned audits, the 27 most important selected ad hoc controls. They are presented in Chapter III of the report entitled "The implementation of the State's tasks in the light of NIK's audit and in Chapter II : Control activities, Chapter IV: Risks of corruption in the light of the audit results. I am talking about this document because this country has the greatest impact on its shape, and we also discussed it at the meeting of the Committee on State Control, and it is according to previous recommendations that Members' requests are the final form of the annual report. Of course, we are open to the development of this document in line with the requests and expectations of the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! In 2015, as I said, the House carried out a series of audits, which met with great interest from ladies and gentlemen, industry experts, media and public opinion. The House's activity was particularly focused on low quality public services, the lack of rationalisation of public spending, often low competitiveness and innovation of our economy, sometimes ineffective or inefficient in combating socio-demographic changes, the lack of effective action to improve the quality of the law and its enforcement in some cases. In particular, we have highlighted the role of guardian of public funds in the role of the Chamber as legal guardian, i.e. legal, economic, targeted and reliable use of public funds, particularly in areas important for the functioning of the State, i.e. in areas relating to public finances, economy, security, the functioning of public administration, agriculture, environmental protection, culture and education, and social and health security. Of course, the issue of public finances, including the revenue and effectiveness of the authorities responsible for this area, remains of particular interest to NIK. As part of the control activities of the NIK, we took into account, among others, the checks carried out last year. matters relating to the settlement of corporate income tax by entities with foreign capital or the actions of the Minister of Finance aimed at reducing the transfer of income for reasons mainly or exclusively of tax reasons, i.e. so-called. tax optimisation. At this point, if you will allow me, I have selected some of the most important checks from last year, and it is not possible at this moment not to start with checks on the expenditure of public funds or checks on the tax system of the State. Such control was the control of the supervision of tax authorities and tax authorities over the regularity of the accounts with the budget of the State of entities with foreign capital. NIK concluded that often audited tax offices and tax control offices did not carry out sufficient and effective measures to prevent tax evasion by entities with foreign capital through the so-called. transfer of revenue outside the Polish tax system. The authorities under the Minister of Finance, in line with the Minister's recommendations, focused in particular on combating irregularities in the area of goods and services tax, VAT. During the period considered, the Minister of Finance often did not have an analysis of the magnitude of the spread of the tax base and the transfer of income between foreign capital entities and effective legal tools ensuring the tightness of the tax system in the context of such entities. We are pleased to note that in 2014 work on sealing the Polish tax system was started and further accelerated, and to develop the approach of entities subordinate to the finance minister to the control of revenue transfer entities. The Minister of Finance identified the risks associated with the income tax settlement of foreign capital entities and prepared legislative changes to eliminate the aggressive tax planning mechanism. The changes aimed at reducing the tax base in income tax and income transfer outside the Polish tax system were consistent with the solutions recommended by the bodies of the European Union and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. The tax authorities in the assessment of the House have not always been effectively prepared to check the regularity of the accounts with the budget of the State of entities with foreign capital. Few checks carried out to verify the legality of foreign transfers of income were too small in relation to needs. In addition to the insufficient often prepared tax authorities and tax authorities to carry out these checks, too few planned checks were affected by the time constraints resulting from the Law on the Freedom of Business and the focus of the Finance Minister's authorities on combating irregularities in the tax on goods and services. In the report of this audit, NIK indicated that in the Polish tax system there is no general clause against tax avoidance, and in many countries this solution has been in place and has been in operation for years. According to the House, the absence of this clause under applicable law is an obstacle to ensuring the integrity of the Polish tax system. Business operators operating in many countries to reduce their tax obligations are often willing to apply the so-called. aggressive tax planning and this phenomenon contributes to the reduction of the national tax base, resulting in a reduction in tax revenue. This also allows international operators to gain an advantage over local businesses and leads to harmful competition, as tax burdens on local operators are therefore higher than those on international operators. Sealing the tax system to prevent tax avoidance by entities operating in many countries, including the introduction of a general anti-tax avoidance clause, should help to reduce unfair competition from aggressive tax planning operators and, as a result, limit the concealment of part of their activities by legally operating companies precisely because of unfair competition. In our speech to the Minister of Finance, we have pointed out that effective detection and combating of such abuses and the protection of the tax base require decisive action at central level, and we have made a number of recommendations and recommendations to achieve this objective. We are pleased that these proposals are being implemented in a successive manner. Another extremely important control in this area was the control on the prevention of the placing on the market of invoices documenting fictitious activities. In this respect, the NIK assessed as ineffective the activities of the Minister of Finance. The tax authorities we are investigating, as recommended by the Minister of Finance, focused their efforts on combating irregularities in the tax on goods and services. The controls included entities with a high risk of irregularities and the checks ended with findings of irregularities. Controlled tax offices carried out security and enforcement procedures fairly, in accordance with the applicable procedure - I stress this very strongly - unfortunately, these actions were mostly ineffective. From entities involved in fraudulent activities, mostly so-called. pole companies were not enforced as a result of tax controls. In most cases, the tax authorities did not determine the actual tax fraud organisers either. I would, of course, like to stress very strongly that this problem is a problem facing all the countries in which the so-called one operates. VAT, however, we must honestly say that in Poland during the period considered, i.e. In 2014 and 2015, the volume of fiscal controls detected by the tax authorities increased, mainly in quota terms, which obviously also resulted in an increase in the amount of tax applied. Thus, in 2013 tax authorities detected fictitious invoices for the amount of PLN 19 700 million, a year later - 33 billion, in the first half of 2015 already for the amount of 28 billion, and in the whole year for the amount of almost PLN 82 billion. On the basis of the article. 108 of the Goods and Services Tax Act, the tax authorities of the tax authorities measured the tax due in amounts ranging from 2300 million in 2013 to almost 5 billion in the first half of 2015. Unfortunately, payments to the State budget in 2013 and the first half of 2015 amounted to only PLN 162 million, or 1,3%. the amounts resulting from the decisions of the dimensional tax authorities. It must be said that the low efficiency in recovering the tax due has, of course, led to a sharp increase in the backlog of VAT from decisions taken pursuant to Article. 108 - they increased from 5 billion in 2013 to over 14 billion at the end of June 2015. In the report from this audit We have pointed out that the possibilities for recovery of these amounts are small and we have proposed mechanisms to seal the tax system on areas of economic activity with particular risks. The system solutions we have proposed, among others. The reverse charge mechanism and the institution of joint and several liability of the buyer, and organisational changes have unfortunately not always been sufficient to improve the effectiveness of the fight against these frauds, although we note that after this report, in the previous years, also last year, and this year, activities are being carried out in the Ministry of Finance to seal this tax system. An important control for us was the inspection of the 15 largest privatisation transactions from 2012 to 2014. In the course of these 15 privatisations, the State Treasury received more than 90% Total revenues from privatisation during this period. During study 15 privatisation processes in case 11 we did not find significant irregularities, in case of four such irregularities we found. These were privatisation processes concerning sales of 85% shares of the Coal Mine of the Adams, sales 37.9% Ciech SA shares on the Stock Exchange in response to a call for sale, sales more than 86% shares of Zakłady Górniczo-Hutnicze Bolesław SA and sales 85% shares of the furniture company Emilia SA. A very important area of control for us - now I am closing the area concerning public finance issues - is the controls that concern the various areas of the state's functioning, especially those concerning so-called controls. socially sensitive areas. Undoubtedly, these were, are, and will be, the sphere of education. Each year, more than one million pupils and graduates of primary schools, middle schools and upper secondary schools take the exams - their outcome increasingly affects the further educational path - so-called. external examinations. Exams enabling students to check their achievements at the end of the different stages of teaching, while ensuring comparability of results at national and local level in a given year, of course, is absolutely fundamental. In view of the above, NIK assessed the functioning of the so-called. the external examination system in education, in particular external examinations as a mechanism for verifying the knowledge and skills of pupils, the efficiency of the Central Examination Commission in Warsaw and the district examination committees, the way and scope of using external examinations to improve the quality of education at the various levels of education management. Unfortunately, this assessment was not successful. The audit has shown that the functioning system of external examinations requires corrective action, in particular in the field of preparation of examination tests and equal treatment for examination work. The control mechanisms built into the system were not fully effective. In the case of 1/4 of the work verified at the applicant's request, it was necessary to change the results of the examinations and to exchange the certificate following that amendment. Nor was there a rule of re-checking all the work assessed by examiners who made mistakes - we are talking about examiners who made mistakes earlier in checking the work. Re-verification of their knowledge should be a permanent element. The external examination system established 15 years ago since 2009 has not been subject to mandatory annual evaluation by the Central Examination Board. Hence our proposal for changes in the context of the preparation of tests. Here we can say that these changes - also after our control - are gradually implemented, which we note with great satisfaction, and we must remember that we are talking about a very large number of work that is being tested in this way every year. The examination work, for example, was checked by examiners entered in the records kept by the district examination committees; we are talking together, on a yearly basis, about 180 thousand. That kind of work. In order to reduce the risk of error, part of the work, up to 10%, was re-evaluated. The work was also reviewed at the request of the applicants. A worrying phenomenon during the period considered was a large number of examinations whose verification at the applicant's request led to a change in the results and exchange of certificates. It was in the carefully tested group. 26%. However, all the work assessed by this examiner, which made a mistake, has not been reviewed. In our view, this meant a weakness in the control mechanisms of the Central Examination Board. The system of external examinations has not been evaluated as comprehensively since 1999 as the one we subjected to in the course of this review of the House. The control regarding the fundamental problems of the Polish road network was important for us due to the size of the public funds involved. Of course, such a fundamental problem in the Polish road network is the lack of a full, sufficient number of motorways and high-speed roads. This is an essential factor in reducing the availability of the country's communication. Of course, this has been radically improved in recent years. We, as part of our audit, audited the activities of the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways to ensure the quality of road works. We have often heard in various reports of reported problems with the implementation of road investments. They focused mainly on their short-term implementation and low quality of the works carried out. This information showed that the general management selected designers, contractors and entities responsible for managing and exercising investor supervision most often on the basis of the lowest price criterion. On this basis, the selection of participants in the construction process sometimes, or even often, did not help to ensure the required quality of road works, as evidenced by cases of removal of defects or adjustments of roads already made. The NIK audit showed that the main problem related to inadequate quality of the works carried out has for many years been the ineffective investor supervision of the investments carried out by GDDKiA. We are talking about supervision both during the preparation of project documentation and during the execution of investment tasks, which later often translated into lower than we expected, the quality of the investment work carried out, as well as the increase in their costs and the extension of the construction time. In particular, the assessment of the NIK GDDKiA was not adequately prepared to carry out the tasks resulting from the 2008-2012 national road construction programme. Thus: no fully effective mechanisms have been put in place to ensure that road works are of adequate quality - more than 70% of the road sections examined by the House have not achieved the parameters set out in the so-called. detailed technical specifications, of which 50% the audited investments of the irregularities concerned the bituminous masses carried out; close to 40% Roads put into service have not been subject to quality monitoring of works; road laboratories GDDKiA were not sufficiently equipped with the research equipment necessary to assess the quality of materials and work technology. But I would also like to convey very important information here: our control has also led to the fact that today all the GDDKiA laboratories - all 16 laboratories - have been accredited, have all the equipment needed to carry out this type of research. This is very good information also in the context of the new budgetary perspective and subsequent infrastructure investments that are planned in our country. The audit on the implementation of cyberspace protection tasks of the Republic of Poland was extremely important from the point of view of the House of Control announced at that time, which we are talking about in the report. The Chamber stated that security in cyberspace is not properly protected in Poland. Crisis response procedures have not been prepared and cyberspace protection activities have been conducted in a distributed manner without a coherent system vision. They often referred to an ad hoc, limited response to current events and a passive expectation of EU regulation. In the NIK's assessment, insufficient involvement of the public administration was an important factor in the implementation of these tasks in the area of cybersecurity, as well as disputes between the various authorities as to who is responsible for this area. There is also a need for better coordination between the authorities and institutions involved in national ICT security. In the opinion of the House, most of the state-controlled entities were still not fully aware of the tasks of the institution related to the protection of cyberspace arising, inter alia. with the management of crisis management, IT or communications. State security has often been seen in a conventional way - mainly through the implementation of physical protection measures - without taking into account technological developments and increased threats to cyberspace. In the House's view, there is a need to develop a system of financing for cybersecurity measures, to allocate additional resources and to allocate more resources, appropriate to the scale of the challenges. I would like to stress very strongly that in this information, which I am presenting - a few more checks let me say - of course, in a special way I am pointing out those areas that require some corrective action. We must remember that exactly about half of the audit ends with a positive summary of the institution's activities, but these are not checks that are of particular interest, especially where we have said that some institution, central office or other organisational units are functioning properly. I am talking about this because, for natural reasons, what I am presenting now shows in a special way those areas where activity is required, whether by the executive authority or by the legislative authority, in the sense of making changes. Undoubtedly, such an important control was also the control regarding the proper functioning of the system of ensuring the security of the state and citizens in connection with the manufacture, transport, storage and use of explosives for civil use. The audit has shown that a system designed to minimise the risks associated with the manufacture, movement, use of explosives for civil use does not ensure the achievement of the objective of ensuring the security of the state and citizens. This is due both to the incorrect achievement of these objectives by the administrative bodies set up to ensure this security and to the changes made by the legislator. I am talking about changes at the level of legislative solutions, which today do not sufficiently take into account the risk of these explosives entering the hands of unauthorised persons. The analysis carried out by the Chamber of Commerce of the risks arising from the presence of explosives in circulation within the country indicates that a coherent and well-functioning system capable of preventing unauthorised entry is necessary in order to reduce this risk. The House also drew attention to the significant differences in the existing legal regulations in the requirements imposed on companies applying for a licence or a permit and to those who have access to explosives. These differences from the point of view of the security of the state and citizens do not have reasonable justification in our assessment, since the risk of misuse of these materials is at the same level in all these cases. Health inspections are always extremely important for us. Such control during the period I report is the health check on the elderly. In the report from this audit we noted that Poland must develop a coherent, comprehensive system of medical care for elderly patients. There are no geriatrics, specialist clinics and hospital departments. Our analysis shows that the geriatrics in the elderly are working better, healthier, and that their treatment costs less than those treated by specialists in other areas. In this connection, the House pointed out the need for the Minister of Health to introduce a full health care system for the elderly. In the opinion of the House, healthcare addressed to these persons should be based on the assumptions set out in the programme of long-term senior policy in Poland adopted for 2014 and-2020, and should take into account the conclusions of the audit. This was the case, among others. the valuation of geriatric benefits. In the opinion of the House, this should be designed so that financial conditions enable the creation of new geriatric facilities, especially since, as I said, this treatment is not only more effective from the point of view of the elderly, but also cheaper than treatment in other branches. The monitoring of the functioning of the preventive vaccination system was very interesting. The introduction of mandatory preventive vaccinations has contributed to reducing the incidence of many infectious diseases, some of which have been completely eliminated. Here, an extremely interesting issue is the increasing number of parents' refusals in the context of compulsory vaccination and therefore the increasing number of children not vaccinated. In 2012, it was 4700 children, and in 2014 it was more than 12 thousand. During this inspection we also pointed out that it has not been possible for several years to extend and modernise the mandatory vaccination catalogue. We have pointed out the need for financial resources to be earmarked to address this problem. Another extremely important control - I give some examples in various areas - was the control of the water protection of the river Bug against pollution. The audit was so interesting that we conducted it at the same time as the Audit Chamber of Ukraine and the Belarus Audit Office. The results were so interesting that it turned out that despite the radical improvement of the environmental infrastructure on the Polish side, there was no radical improvement in the issue of pollution of the Bug river. In the course of this audit, we have revealed that the responsibility for this really needs to be borne by the Ukrainian partner, and in particular the lack of waste water treatment, which is dumped from the Lviv agglomeration. I also give you this as an example. These sewers that are dumped into the Bug River, then through the Bug River to the Vistula River and later into the Baltic Sea, are those that are particularly responsible for such and not other parameters of the Baltic Sea's purity. Here, too, we have presented a whole range of proposals, as well as proposals that we have addressed to the European institutions in the context of, for example. consider special financing of the construction of the treatment plant for the city of Lviv. Today, the Ukrainian State is unable to allocate funds for this purpose, even if due to the situation at its eastern border. Such a social control was an extremely important control regarding the provision of public services to sign language speakers. The Chamber carried out this inspection in as many as 60 public administration offices from several voivodships. We found that the level of implementation of the law by the audited entities after almost 2 years of validity was very low. There were still areas requiring adaptation to the specific needs of people with hearing disabilities, even in those entities that took action to implement the Sign Language Act. The results of our audit showed that audited public service providers were often not prepared to interact with sign language users. In the period from the entry into force of the Sign Language Act, i.e. from 1 April 2012, until the start of the audit by us, i.e. until August 2014, many institutions have not, despite a clear statutory obligation, taken sufficient steps to ensure that the obligations set out in that Act are effectively fulfilled. These offices did not give sign language users access to information they understood. Of course, the controls concerning the spending of funds in the Treasury companies were also important for us. I'm gonna call in one control here. It was an audit concerning the expenses of PKP Group companies for consulting, consulting and expert services. In this respect, we have negatively assessed the activities of the PKP Group companies, in particular because in our assessment of organisational and procedural solutions in companies, as well as the practice used did not constitute mechanisms to minimise the risk of non-targeted, inefficient spending of funds on advisory and expert services. Internal regulations did not oblige the services to analyse the real needs and benefits of the company, as well as to assess the value of the contract. Between 2012 and 2014, 1029 contracts for consultancy and expert services with natural, legal and organisational entities with no legal personality were concluded in these four companies under scrutiny, for which PLN 170 million was spent. In our view, these orders often duplicated the competences, responsibilities of individual organisational units within the company itself. Often, in the case of the award of contracts for these advisory and expert services, the procedures did not require the carrying out and documenting of an assessment of the appropriateness of undertaking these obligations, including an analysis of the needs and costs and benefits arising from such contracts of expert services. Of course, we have made appropriate proposals to the Minister of Treasury or other ministers overseeing the various institutions for change. And it's just a password. Such important controls also in our assessment last year were: control of the supervision of the public trading of financial instruments, control of the implementation of the programme Polish investments, control of alternative methods of use of hard coal, control of the management of strategic reserves, control of the efficiency of state services at selected border crossing points, Eastern border and Lublin Voivodeship, control of the administration of protection to foreigners residing in the Republic of Poland, control of primary and outpatient specialist care, control of the operation of clinical hospitals, control of the tasks of the National Health Fund, control of training and preparation of professional health personnel, control of the carrying out of strategic environmental impact assessments by local government units. We controlled the activities of research institutes, commercialisation of research results, doctoral training and coordination of family policy. Of course, I'm just talking about dozens of checks. I listed about 30 inspections from a few hundred inspections that we carried out in 2015. I would like to stress very strongly that the Supreme Audit Chamber, our institution is also highly valued for professionalism. On an international level, we are seen as a solid and trustworthy partner. The House's activity in this area - I am talking about the international level - was particularly linked to two areas. We've set these priorities. Yes, after coming to the House, we reorganized international activity. I had the impression earlier that she was not entirely structured with clearly indicated priorities. These priorities have been defined by me from the outset as audits and cooperation with international institutions, for understandable reasons in particular with the institutions of the European Union and other institutions at the level of our continent, and cooperation with control authorities of countries associated with the European Union wishing to join the European Union. And so in this area, which I note with extraordinary satisfaction, the Supreme Audit Chamber is the auditor of external international organisations such as the Council of Europe. This Polish Supreme Audit Chamber in the course of the competition was selected for many years as an auditor of the Council of Europe. We took over these duties from the French auditor, and in competition we defeated among others. the German control authority. Please note that the Council of Europe often sends checks to different Member States through its competences, as we know, and the Polish Supreme Audit Office controls the regularity of public expenditure in the Council of Europe. This is the most prestigious control that the European audit authority can perform, so I am pleased to note that already during my term of office the Polish NIK won this competition and this audit carries out. We are also the external auditor of CERN, the European Agency for Nuclear Research. These obligations, this mandate, at the unanimous request of the Member States of CERN, i.e. the Member States of the European Union, have been extended to the following years, until the end of 2017. Similarly to previous years, NIK is obviously active in international organisations which have the highest control bodies. I am talking about both the International Organisation of Supreme Audit Authorities, INTOSAI, where we are a member of the INTOSAI Board representing Europe and the European Organisation of Supreme Auditors, i.e. EUROSAI. It is extremely interesting, which in a special way in this intensity has also appeared in recent years, and especially in 2015, that NIK is very active, first, in the so-called. peer reviews. We implement them for the countries of Central Europe and we believe that these are our fundamental partners. Such reviews were carried out in 2015 for the control authority of Hungary, Estonia and Latvia, and in the framework of the twin cooperation we did such a project called the institutional strengthening of the Georgian State Control Office, together with the German control authority. We were also chosen for these duties in the course of the competition procedure conducted by the European institutions. We are also carrying out a project of twin cooperation for NOK Albania, another country that has aspirations for accession to the European Union, and at the moment we are preparing to make such a proposal, which is to be announced soon, in the context of the Schiotna Palace, which is the control body of Ukraine, but we are already organising training for controllers from Ukraine, Moldova and Georgia, i.e. countries that we believe are the most important from the point of view of our partnership. The Supreme Audit Chamber sent a total of 130 notifications from 1 January to 31 December 2015 to the authorities appointed to prosecute crimes, offences and other acts. In 2015, the Council The NIK also sent 88 notices to the Ombudsman of public finance discipline, in which we disclosed 1322 actions which were the basis for such a notification. We sent these notices, they covered a total of 103 people, and in 13 cases we did not identify the person responsible for violating public finance discipline. They were so-called. notices on the case. Presenting you today's report, we are already after the meeting of the Committee on State Control, during which the Coreferent referred to my report. Mr Koreferent's speech included, among others, critical assessment of the performance of controllers - I quote - this evaluation said, among others. about a bureaucratic job at NIK. I would like to stress very strongly that this is not reflected in any data that I am able to quote to you. Firstly, employment in the Supreme Audit Chamber, if we are talking about bureaucratic elements of strict sense, has decreased. It is much smaller than what I found when I came to the Chamber. Secondly, this is also not reflected in the reduction in the effectiveness and quality of the House's work. On the contrary, the number of checks is at a similar level, and the amount of information we present to you, including calls from the Sejm committees to cooperate with you, is increasing. Speaking of concrete, at the end of last year it was about 1620 employees, and when I came, this figure was approaching 1700. With regard to the internal procedures in the House, as it may be possible to wonder that it may have meant those words, I would like to stress very strongly that in the past 3 years we have introduced a quality management system in the Supreme Chamber, which has allowed the standardisation of documents, including audit reports, and the harmonisation of the audit methodology throughout the House, which is best confirmed, as I said, by the revised quality of controls. I have no doubts, and I am about to prove to you that the quality of our controls has been radically improved. What has changed is, of course, the way in which the audit is carried out, so that the House's reports are an expected, sought-after source of information for the authorities and society. Those of you who have observed the House's work before 2013, are able to answer the question of how many important checks you have been carrying out have been announced at the time and how much is being announced now. I didn't come up with this new way of managing quality. Such processes are implemented in the most modernly managed control bodies in Europe and the world. A confirmation of the effectiveness of the road we have adopted is the information that I will now present to you about quoting individual reports from the House's inspections. You can see how this number has increased in recent years, which is the best confirmation that the information contained in our reports, in our post-control proposals, has been extremely important and noted by the public. As I said, the confirmation of this thesis is also significant... This is confirmed by you who accept our conclusions de lege ferenda, for which I would like to thank you very warmly. From Parliament's point of view, there is no better assessment of the functioning of the House than that you are implementing legislative amendments based on our proposals. This is the best confirmation of the quality of work we do in NIK. The results of public confidence addressed to the institution are also such confirmation from the point of view of the functioning of each institution. I would like to draw your attention to the slide that we are now presenting. Like any public institution, the Supreme Audit Chamber is also examined every six months as part of the CBOS survey on trust in the work of the Chamber. At the start of my work in the House... The recent studies, which were carried out for the previous president, spoke of positive NIK ratings of 33%, negative - at 19%. Today's latest research is 40% confidence in the House and the lack of trust is 16%. I would like to thank at this point very warmly for this kind of performance for those representatives of society, for the citizens who are thus summing up the work of the institution that I am working on. This is extremely stimulating for my colleagues, because this is an emphasis on the quality of work. These words are particularly addressed to the directors who are accompanying me in this House today. This is an emphasis on the quality of your work in these times, in which various criticisms are often made about different environments, including directors' environments. I would like to stress with all my power that I am proud to be able to work with you. These words are addressed to my directors, vice-directors, counselors - so-called. management staff. You are truly excellent managers of your organizational units, and in NIK we have excellent controllers who carry out these controls. I would like to thank you here for this and wish you not to worry about the unjustified words of criticism, which may sometimes fall, are addressed to different groups. At the meeting of the Committee on State Control on 5 September, the opinion was also adopted to be precise, which recommends that the Sejm does not adopt a report on the activities of the Supreme Audit Chamber, and which makes this oral - I stress: orally, which is also important, and I will come back to that very soon - the need to make changes to improve the work of the Chamber, including to direct these changes to rationalise the internal organisation of the Chamber and to make systemic and ad hoc changes in the Chamber. The document that I have presented today, which is a report on the activities of the Supreme Audit Chamber, is a reflection of the work of all the Members of the Chamber all year round. I stress: this document, because we accept the report on the activities of the Supreme Audit Chamber - I stress very strongly that someone is not mistaken about what document we are working on - this is the result of the work of almost 1,200 controllers and 400 administrative staff. If we are talking about not accepting the report, that is to say to the House's employees that you were working badly in 2015. That's not true information. The House's employees worked perfectly. I am talking about both the controllers and the management staff who supported the controllers in this work. Thus, any failure to accept the report, contrary to what was suggested in the Cordeferat, is a kind of vote of distrust for employees, and this is an opinion that is harmful, unlawful, unjustified, especially given that no substantive arguments have been put forward to discredit the work of the Supreme State Audit Authority. In the opinion I have before me, in the opinion of the state control which I will now pass on to you and show you, there is not a single word of justification for not accepting the report. This opinion is the same as the opinion that was in previous years, with one exception: the word "positive" is replaced by the word "negative." This is an in-depth analysis of the House's work. [[That's not true.]] I would also like to stress very strongly that today you will be discussing the assessment of the House's activities for the whole year 2015. The assessment of the proper functioning of such institutions as the Supreme Audit Chamber is confirmed by our reports. Reports that were reliable, objective, professional and uncompromising, quoted repeatedly in the speeches of representatives of all political groups, quoted in the so-called. government audit by the Prime Minister and a whole group of ministers who in many places referred to the reports of the Supreme Audit Chamber. Reports which, in the light of the opinion of the parliamentarians from all the committees of substance - I stress: from all the committees of substance - which dealt with this report, which has been assessed without a vote of opposition... Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, meeting on 21 June - NIK report adopted without objection. Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technology, meeting on 5 July - House report adopted without objection. Commission for Energy and Treasury, 22 June - Report adopted without objection. The Committee on Petitions did not consider it. The Special Services Committee did this in a closed session. The Commission for European Union Affairs - of course, here we have no information about the failure to take over the report, because it was not. The Commission for European Union Affairs, then, is the report adopted. Committee on the Ethics of the European Union - report adopted. The Committee on Public Finance - I will no longer empathize with the dates of meetings - the report adopted. Committee on Economic Affairs and Development - report adopted. Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - report adopted. Sometimes there are different nomenclatures, sometimes it is a adopted report, sometimes adopted without comments, sometimes a positive opinion, as in the case of the Committee on Infrastructure. Committee on Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - adopted report. Committee on Culture and Media - adopted without comments, positive opinion. Committee on National and Ethnic Minorities - report adopted. Committee on National Defence - report positively accepted. Environmental Commission - Report adopted. Committee on Constitutional Responsibility - there were two abstentions here because there were not even abstentions in all other committees. Social Policy Committee - report adopted. Committee on Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs - report adopted. Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development - report adopted. Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - report adopted. Committee on Foreign Affairs - report adopted. In all these committees, it was a unanimous party. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights - I can only state the number: 19 votes in favour with no votes against and abstentions. Legislative Commission - Report adopted without comments. Health Committee - report accepted. I stress this because, according to the procedure, the Marshal of the Sejm sent this report to these committees earlier. The only committee that has unanimously adopted a resolution presenting an opinion on failure to adopt a report is the Commission for State Control. Finally, if you don't mind, I'd like to say that this is a surprising situation for us, of course. This is a surprising situation for us, because it seemed that this partner, with whom in a special way or with whom most knows about the NIK reports, because he usually deals with them, and I remind you that of course we are talking about the report on the House's activities, is the Commission for State Control, but maybe there is no justification in the text of the committee's position for the negative assessment. As I said, it differs in one word from earlier passed resolutions with positive opinions. Perhaps the question should be asked: Why were no arguments put forward in the resolution of the Commission for State Control which was adopted? I know why, and you know why. Because there is no such argument or such justification. An attempt not to accept an activity report contrary to substantive arguments, contrary to logic, can only be regarded as an attempt to involve the House in a political game, which I cannot and do not agree with. That is why I have presented you today with an activity report, and I ask you to accept it, with the assurance of a well-managed work done by the staff of the Supreme Auditorium, which I thank once again for the work that has been done. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u448	Thank you, Mr. President. I ask Mr Tadeusz Dziuba to present the opinion of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u449	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Before I refer to the committee's position extensively discussed at the meeting mentioned by the President, I would say that it was not an intention in the last part of the speech of the President to make it clear to Members and the Sejm that the criticisms of the Supreme Audit Chamber, which, for many years I remember, were not justified only because they ended with the sentiment that ends with the resolution of the committee. The Commission for State Control actually recommends not to adopt a report on the activities of the Supreme Audit Chamber in 2015. As far as I know, it's the first time a committee has ever given such a recommendation, treating it as a kind of disciplinary measure. However, it may be added that, at least in the last 5 years, which we have recently remembered, Members of the Supreme Audit Chamber have always submitted less or more critical comments to the Chamber. The terms of the proposal for a disciplinary measure in the form of failure to adopt the report relate to an assessment of the management of the Supreme Audit Chamber, partly concerning control activities, but above all concerning institutional problems. And now, in a few points, let me specify the shortcomings indicated at the committee's meeting. Control topics are by nature profiled and must be profiled. However, the inevitable result is that most of them refer to a narrow segment of our community life in general. Thus, the checks of NIK do not give a complete answer to the question of the size of the implementation or failure to carry out the so-called. horizontal risks identified in the country's development strategy. For example, I will mention one of them, namely a risk called low quality public services. At least 15 topics listed in Annex 2 to the report relate to this issue, and these are only topics coordinated by the departments of the Supreme Audit Chamber, i.e. not by field units, but there are no synthesiss and therefore no global systemic proposals for this risk. It is similar in other cases - the absence of super-professional system hazard synthesiss, because NIK has not developed methods for associating the results of various control topics over the years. Is such association possible? The first proposal in this area was made less than 20 years ago. Despite the passage of that time, the House, as I said, has not worked out a way in this regard. Should we wait another dozen years? The main expectation is that the House should submit proposals for global system solutions. It raises doubts, as we specifically discussed in the committee's meeting, the visibility in the NIK reports, including in the 2015 report, of the control of corruption issues. However, these controls have not added value for years, they have duplicated the arrangements for corruption mechanisms known from thousands of analyses carried out worldwide over the last few decades. The management of NIK consistently accepts the appearance of NIK discovery in this area. However, NIK controls only contain further illustrations - under Polish conditions - of various corruption mechanisms. Of course, this has some value, so there is no reason to stop registering other views of known phenomena. However, there is no reason to create appearances of extraordinaryness. Corruption should not be described as NIK does, but should be eradicated, and this is served by specialised institutions, in particular. Central Corruption Bureau. There is a particular reason for this criticism. Well, many years ago, when the Central Anti-corruption Office had not yet existed, and I don't think there was even a plan to set up such an institution, when the problems of corruption were in the shadows, especially in view of the media space, then NIK undertook a mission to bring this issue to light. At that time these controls were specifically programmed to unveil Polish manifestations of corrupt mechanisms and they were of great social and civic importance. NIK was then the first state institution to put corruption at the heart of public interest on such a scale. In this respect, years ago, the Supreme Audit Chamber played a role, you can say, missionary. But I did. Now that we have specialized institutions for this, when the area is perfectly described, it would be great if the current NIK leadership would give up to enriching with further illustrations of what we know not worst, and to combat what we have a relatively effective instrumentarium for, and instead take on another desirable civic mission. Can you find such an area? You can, at least, convince a lot of people. Let the House undertake the effort to reveal the signs of unacceptable level of injustice in Polish courts. In the past, NIK has effectively made the issue of corruption a front issue. Today let him undertake a mission to make the front issue of the destructive function of justice, the source of which is the Polish justice system. Is this a workable task? On an individual basis, in 2015, the judiciary accounted for 8% of complaints and requests from citizens addressed to NIK, while counting 6.5% of complaints and requests. It is therefore not small to say a comprehensive analytical material, which would probably increase in the light of the House's interest in the regularity and timeliness of judicial proceedings - that is, a quote from your report - and the validity of judicial decisions - again a quote from your report. Through extensive analysis of complaints coming to NIK, it would be possible to present a real picture of forensic pathology in Poland. Just in case, I'll remind you that discussing and commenting on court judgments is under no circumstances a violation of judicial independence. It is also time to question the way in which the financial results of the audit are determined. These effects have been defined for years by mixing real results with virtual ones, i.e. those that will occur in the future, perhaps they will occur or simply will not occur, which, of course, is difficult to predict at the starting point. Such a way of determining the effects makes it difficult to assess the real effectiveness and efficiency of the Supreme Audit Chamber. Such a modern way of determining the financial effects of the audit was adopted many years ago, but this does not mean that this condition is to be maintained until the end of the world or longer. Speaking of efficiency, you have to ask yourself, how about this? efficiency is influenced by extensive internal bureaucracy. In his speech, the President addressed this issue without presenting a real picture. Contrary to its name so-called. the quality assurance system of the control process does not perform an information or incentive function, nor does it affect the gratification of the controllers. First of all, I encourage all sceptics of modern bureaucratic art to read the 2015 resolution of President NIK on the quality assurance system of the control process, and more specifically the annexes to it. They can be used, among others. learn that currently, not controllers and their collaborators, advisors and directors are employees of quality, but, among other things, they are the guardians of quality of work. management support teams, control management groups and content teams, i.e. artificially established structures. Perhaps in order to increase the volume, or seriousness of the order, we can learn from it a lot of obviousness, namely that the tools for quality assurance are supervision, coordination, consultation, meetings. There are also creative novelties, namely various questionnaires, followed by registers and collections of completed questionnaires. I am unable to give a brief presentation of the wealth of reflections contained in this more than 70-page document, and I am only counting the annexes here. A lot of the statements there, if not most, are just obvious. A minor example is the directive that the controller should be the person who has the skills and knowledge required and the manager of the control team of the person who has the ability to organise the work of the team. These pseudoscience deliriums are a consequence of NIK's abandoning simple and effective management methods. Of course, these pseudo-scientific deliriums would have no meaning if they had not translated into the institutional practice already mentioned in the questionnaires. NIK employees must fill in these questionnaires, and undoubtedly do so, diplomatically speaking, routinely, maybe with a few exceptions. They know very well that the findings and assessments contained there do not affect the professional position of controllers and their gratifications. Building up the work of practitioners' controllers with dumber bureaucracy paves the way for a discrepancy between the reality of the paper bureaucracy and the reality of the day-to-day work of controllers. For example: a sloppy, disrespectful controller who overlooks valuable findings, but will respond to all items in the so-called. a checklist, has a better chance of getting a positive assessment than a responsible and gifted controller who will pick out any valuable finding, but will not answer any question from the checklist, because it will not have enough time imposed in advance. The construction of the work of practitioners' controllers is perhaps the most expressive expression of the silent disease, which is invisibly the special institution of our country, the Supreme Audit Chamber. Expansive internal bureaucracy restrains the creativity of controllers from birth. The idea of a quality assurance system for the control process introduced in March 2015, but of course it was also earlier, is missed. This is borne out by the fact that, after a year of management in this case, some provisions of the scheme have been amended by general letter, and after the next 5 months, already in August 2016, this order has simply been amended. The synthetic indicator indicating the number of controls per control worker shows a serious organisational weakness of NIK. In 2015, the Council NIK checked 2501 units with 1194 controllers, approximately 2500 and 1200, thus the indicator amounted to approximately 2 per capita unit controls, exactly 2.09 . There are, of course, no standards in this respect, but you can refer to data from years ago, when this ratio was not less than 3 and it was assumed that it should be around 4. It can therefore be concluded that the operational efficiency of NIK is unsatisfactory. As is known from public reports, the rules of employment at NIK are not transparent. Administrative workers were first employed without a public announcement, and later such announcements appeared, but then they resigned from this open form. Thus, under media pressure, the President of NIK issued in March 2015 Order No 17 on the introduction of the rules of recruitment into the NIK for posts of administrative staff and staff. § 2 of that provision provided for recruitment to be carried out through open and competitive selection procedures. The recruitment notice shall be published in the Chamber's Public Information Bulletin. Six months later, in September, the President issued Order No 48 on the opinion of candidates for employment in those posts which had repealed the earlier order. It was returned to the old practice, according to which it was enough to write a job application, of course, as long as you knew there was a vacancy in NIK. I wonder how many people have been employed at NIK since the end of September 2015 according to this discretionary practice? Press reports say more than 20. The taste of the case gives the fact that this did not bother the House in the context of the audit of public authorities to postulate, I quote: to take action to make public information about vacant places, rules and admission criteria public. Such duality reduces the prestige of the House, not to say: it discredits it, at least in the eyes of reasonable people. In order to be clear, I will extend the quote from the report on the control of traineeships and traineeships organised by the authorities. Here's a quote: The recruitment process for traineeships has often not been carried out in a transparent manner. Less than 1/5 of the audited offices have made public information on vacant places and recruitment rules, and the criteria for admission of candidates have not been laid down in a clear and written manner. Putting these two things together, the story of the splinter in the eye of the neighbor and the beam in his own eye is reminiscent. As you know, NIK has been manipulated by competitions for directors' positions, which so far results in the prosecution's request to take immunity from President NIK in connection with criminal charges. By combining these two issues, it is clear that the House does not care about reliable rules of employment in such a particular state institution. Since life can be paradoxical, in the margins of this case it may be worth noting that NIK is directing the work of an international team to update the code of ethics to be applied in the highest state control bodies concentrated in an international organisation. In December this year. The NIK will present a proposal at the Abu Dhabi Congress. Whether this code provides for acceptance of manipulative methods for hiring, we will see. The foundation of the good quality of the House's work is the audit staff, from which we should expect substantive preparation for work, integrity, integrity and availability in relation to the needs of our state community. Manipulating the rules of employment is not conducive to developing a culture of responsibility. There is yet another issue that has not yet been addressed with the issue of sound institutional order. Working at NIK by nature is a team-based thing, which everyone understands. Creating efficient teams to work on further audit topics ending in reports certainly does not encourage over-diversification of the status of employees. However, a serious problem is the serious difference between the institutional status of managers and the status of practitioners. Although the latter have many privileges, the highest salaries, the highest prizes, because prizes depend not on results, but on taking up a place in the hierarchy of employees, rather the stationary mode of work as opposed to practicing controllers, great freedom in the organisation of working time, as opposed to practicing controllers. In addition, it is not uncommon for directors to provide the necessary support to practitioners. Such a difference in professional status makes it difficult to develop a culture of cooperation aimed at achieving the objectives. The described malfunctions of the functioning of NIK are not some temporary excess that has occurred for a year or two years. In the last five years, as I mentioned at the beginning, and probably earlier, all the mentioned deficiencies, except for one, have been mentioned to the House on various occasions, including during the analysis of the NIK activity reports. Whether we like it or not, sooner or later the Sejm Commission for State Control had to face the prospect of disciplined the institution to which it has supervisory responsibilities. NIK had the opportunity to correct the organisation of the audit work, but it is not evident that it has benefited effectively, and therefore the majority proposal of the Sejm Commission for State Control is justified. In order to be clear, it is necessary to make clear at the end that the shortcomings identified concern the sphere of management of the Chamber, not the sphere of control crafts. Controllers, who mostly work professionally and sacrificially, and thanks to the work that we have valuable documentation, do not have adequate support from the heads of the Chamber, therefore the potential of this institution is not fully exploited. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u450	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in its discussion on this item it would hear ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and a five-minute statement on behalf of the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Wojciech Sharama, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u451	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the parliamentary club, I propose that the report on the activities of the Supreme Audit Chamber presented by the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber in 2015 should not be accepted. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The committee started its work on this report, and members of the committee started it immediately after it was submitted. During this work, the Sejm received a request from the prosecutor's office that the Sejm agree to be held liable by the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber. The committee bureau decided that it would take this proposal into account and that it would take note of this request. The proposal was made available to Members in July this year. There was a discussion at the committee meeting, there were different views on the subject and this will certainly be reflected in today's discussion. I wanted to make it very clear here that this request made by Law and Justice is not a motion for a vote of distrust to the employees of the Supreme Audit Chamber. The President's remark is inconclusive, and I absolutely cannot agree with her. The Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, members of the committee during this brief period of this new term of office, had the opportunity to read the results of the Supreme Audit Chamber's audit work and to a large extent assess these results and the activities of individual auditors. So here, from this speaker, your marshal, High Izbo, I would like to thank all those employees of the Supreme Audit Chamber, above all the controllers, for their work, for being able to point out the shortcomings of our economic life, the shortcomings in the activities of institutions - institutions that are the most serious authorities in Poland. The Supreme Audit Office controls the activities of the Sejm, the Senate, the President's law firm, and controls the activities of courts, prosecutors and special forces, including the Central Anti-corruption Office. By the way, Mr President, I have read with great interest the information from the inspection carried out in the special services, especially the Central Anti-corruption Office, because the conclusions are actually very, very interesting. The Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, thanking for this good work, thanking us for the various results of the checks which show us what action to be taken in order for the Polish state to function better, but it cannot go on the agenda that this proposal by the prosecutor's office - repeated, since it was already submitted in the previous term by the prosecutor's office, which was subject to other management, so the second team has come to the conclusion that such a request should be submitted to the Sejm - undermines confidence not to all employees of the Supreme Audit Chamber, not to all auditors, but to a certain group of persons, including the President of the Supreme Auditorium. You cannot escape this country because the activity of the Supreme Audit Chamber, these checks are not performed, it is not abstract activity, it is not the activity of some completely anonymous persons. This is the activity of controllers, administrative staff, but it is also the activity of department directors, directors of delegations and the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber. After all, he is the one who is preparing and submitting this report, so we cannot separate the subject of control and the subject of these checks. The President here in the second part of his speech, which was no longer discussing the report, showed how highly the work of the Supreme Auditorium is assessed, how high confidence is. The Sejm will be standing shortly before the dilemma of whether or not the President's immunity will be lifted. Certain details of this proposal have already been made available to the press and have been discussed. They'll definitely come back. Then will this trust in the Supreme Board of Control, when this case is over, be the same as today? We cannot answer that question, that it will happen for sure, or that it will be bigger or smaller, but we need to think about it, because the Polish state - not only the Sejm, but the Polish state - has faced an extremely difficult problem. What can we do about it, what should we do? Parliamentary Club Law and Justice cannot go on the agenda because it is too difficult. There are voices that this has little to do with the report. There are two applications in the Sejm for the waiver of immunity to the President. One of these proposals is of no importance for the evaluation of this report - it is of no importance and we have not considered it at all - and the other proposal is of no importance because it concerns the essence of the functioning of the Supreme Audit Chamber. It concerns very high officials who, not only in 2013, may have had legal problems, as the prosecutor puts it, but also function today. These people are there, and doubts, very serious doubts, remain. The High House will determine that. I would like those who will be present here to be aware that this proposal can be read, it is not a secret. It cannot be discussed here in detail, in public, because such are the requirements of criminal proceedings, but this proposal is available to all Members. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course we respect, it is quite obvious, the principle of presumption of innocence. It is in force, it is clear, but say, state, let us consider here among those who have been in committee on this, these Members: The Supreme Audit Chamber will control, because it is in terms of its tasks, the prosecutor's office, that it will control the court in which the case may be hanged, and will control the special services that carried out the operational activities on this matter. I ask you to reply, these speeches will only be after my speech, whether this is a good situation or whether this raises some doubts about you. I am very sorry that I have to make such an appearance from the Parliamentary Court, that this appearance of me in the presence of me has come to my attention. I am very sorry because I know President Kwiatkowski, but, once again, Members, I, too, cannot move on to this situation. This situation affects the operation of the entire Supreme Audit Chamber not only in 2013, but also this year, [[♪ The bell ♪]] and it will impact on the activities of the Supreme Audit Chamber next year. We should all think about how to solve this problem. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u452	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Richard Wilczyński, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u453	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. President! Fellow Members! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club on the report on the activities of the Supreme Audit Chamber in 2015. We present this position when the opinion of the Committee on State Control for the Sejm Bureau is negative, which is unprecedented. What is so shocking about the report is that the parliamentary majority, i.e. Law and Justice, in the Committee on State Control, has decided to formulate a negative assessment, recommending the High House not to adopt this report? The situation is surprising, given that all the parliamentary committees that leaned on the report expressed their positive views on it. The report on the activities of NIK in 2015 on the volume and above all the layout of the presented content is almost such Same as the previous year. The differences are in detail. Similarly, the figures, the results in all areas: the types of controls, the effects of checks, cooperation with the Sejm and other activities undertaken by the House. For example, in 2015 117 completed planned audits, a year earlier 110; 144 ad hoc control topics, previously 150; 126 notifications to law enforcement agencies of crimes or offences, including 52 to the prosecutor's office, 106 and 45 notifications respectively; 88 notifications to the Ombudsman of public finance discipline of suspicion of a breach of financial discipline, in 2014,102 notifications; 637 meetings of the Sejm committees with representatives of NIK, previously 815; 205 information on the results of the audits submitted to the Sejm, in 2014 - 185; 87 requests for amendments to the law, a year earlier - 75. Similar comparisons can be made by analysing the budget, the organisational structure, the number of employees of the Chamber, the proportion of controllers to the number of employees, etc. In 2015, new qualitatively, positive elements emerged. There was talk of a quality management system using the principle of many eyes, involving both controllers and monitoring control activities. We had information and we know that the international prestige of the House has also increased. It is enough to mention that NIK performed the first audit to the Council of Europe under the mandate of an external auditor of this organisation. 40% citizens in the research of confidence in public institutions carried out by CBOS evaluates the NIK positively, 16 - negative. Positive assessments are 7 percentage points more than in studies 3 years ago and negative assessments less 3 percentage points. NIK has also reached a record number of almost 16 thousand. TV, radio and press quotes. So why the negative assessment of the PiS-dominated report of the Commission for State Control? A year ago, PiS was delighted with the same report. Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski, as rapporteur of the committee, said: "The Commission (...), working together with the Supreme Audit Chamber this year, has given a positive assessment of its activities. The cooperation actually worked out well. The overwhelming majority of requests addressed to the Supreme Audit Chamber by the Sejm committees (...) have been accepted. (...) in relation to those that were not accepted, the Supreme Audit Chamber claimed that they were already in the process of being implemented, or information on this matter was included in other reports, which are indeed interesting, valuable and should form the basis for a public debate in Parliament. The report's content has already been treated as an ammo to the canonada for the governance of the Civic Platform and the slogan of the theoretical state as a representative of the PiS club. In the operative part, Mr Czartoryski said: "Of course, the Law and Justice are in favour of a positive opinion to adopt this report. The work of controllers serves the Polish state and we notice it. The answer to the question on the basis of the recommendation of the Commission for State Control to reject the report is not found in the opinion of this committee, although there is a provision suggesting that the wording of an opinion different from that of all the committees of the Sejm took place, I quote, after hearing the additional explanations of the President of the NIK and following the discussion. Indeed, neither the President's explanation nor the discussion led to this conclusion. Mr PiS's correferature contained questionable thesis that the extensive form of the report hides the internal situation of the House, the disorder of relations, irregularities in training, the functioning of the caste of directors and the adoption of an external working methodology imposed by international organisations whose NIK is a member. Paraphrasing, according to the PiS: another assessment of the report is not possible, especially since the President of NIK has serious allegations. Today, after Mr Tadeusz Dziuby's strong voice, we know that there was some secret internal audit in NIK, which we obviously did not know about. Back to the committee meeting. The voices of the opposition questioning this reasoning and making an incomprehensible transfer of the personal situation of the President of NIK to the annual work of the entire House - 1668 employees, including 1121 controllers - have not met with a substantive reply. There has been no lack of integrity and lack of reliability of the report or the existence of facts that would indicate the failure of the House to comply with its statutory obligations. However, the Commission's majority, despite the total lack of substantive grounds, accepted the proposal by the Codeferent to reject the report of the NIK for 2015 - also at the expense of the authority of the Commission for State Control, whose role is to assess the activities of NIK and to cooperate with the Chamber to improve the functioning of the Republic of Poland. This mission, which requires reliability and objectivity, does not include a political decision-making centre of the PiS, and is followed by a search for the proverbial bat to beat. Unfortunately, we receive further confirmation that the independence of any institution, even constitutionally guaranteed, as in the case of NIK, is not part of the scenario of the exercise of power by the PiS - the consistent submission of all institutions and the filling of party nominates everywhere. Moreover, at present, any dysfunctions and irregularities identified by the NIK are already going to the PiS government. The Civic Platform Club welcomes NIK's report on its activities in 2015. With regard to the recommendation made by the Commission for State Control not to accept the report by the Sejm, please refer to the Sejm Office's commentary on the article. Article 126a (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) 1 Rules of I quote: "The legal status of rejection or acceptance by the Sejm of any document originating from an entity of the State (external to the Sejm) must have a clear legal basis in the substantive law (they should also specify the legal effects of the above rejection or acceptance). In the case of NO one, such provisions do not exist. It is worth mentioning this before the Sejm's majority, in a purely political attack on NIK's leadership, will listen to the Commission's voice in the State Control Welds and decide not to adopt the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u454	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to invite Mrs Barbara Chrobak, Kukiz Club15. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u455	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Referring to the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber and the activities of the House's auditors, it should be stressed that they have revealed that in certain spheres, as the classic used to say, the Polish state exists only theoretically. The work of the controllers NIK indicated the failure and helplessness of the governments of the PO-PSL coalition, their finance ministers and tax authorities in the fight against pathology. The huge problem of VAT fraud alone shows who the country is working for, which does not have a host. The work of controllers shows the scale of omissions and actions to the detriment of the Polish state. The control of the NIK is an audit of the fiscal negligence of the previous ruling team and clearly indicates how much effort should be made to ensure that the pathological situation changes. It was the audit that pointed out that pathology flourishes, and VAT fraud on the basis of fictional invoices is a practice where criminals get rich and honest citizens lose. The Supreme Chamber of Control recommends the introduction of combined actions using the strength of various tools selected by the Minister of Finance to the specifics of the Polish market. It recommends the urgent introduction of a public finance recovery programme. Another pathology illustrated by the audit report is the introduction into the economic circulation of invoices documenting fictional activities, the lack of effectiveness of authorities entitled to prosecute such phenomena, and in principle their real helplessness. Another problem is the collection of danin, taxes and the associated income regression in relation to the state's revenue. High Izbo! As the report points out, it will be necessary to consider introducing solutions such as the central invoice register in Poland or the introduction of a public register of taxpayers' bank accounts and universal standardization of data records. Importantly, the report recommends that effective, real law enforcement be introduced, that perpetrators be punished. It's about time. Only a high, real punishment will cause the crime of creative accountants to decline. The failings of the PO-PSL governments allowed criminals in white collars to carry out huge amounts to damage the state budget. As we read in the report, the possibility of recovery of VAT dues, from fictitious invoices is about 1,3% the amounts to be measured. This is a consequence of a completely ineffective execution and a prominence of the so-called action. pole companies. It's time for countermeasures. This report is a reason for discussion, but also a nail to the coffin of banksters, liberals and other machers preying on the financial bodies of the Polish state. High Izbo! The sound and reasonable recommendations of the NIK contained in the report should be underlined. However, this document must be assessed by the labour perspective of all workers employed in the Supreme Chamber of Labour Control. The work of the officials of the Supreme Audit Chamber is at a high level, and the report is the effort and work of a whole crowd of people employed there, not just its president. The rejection of the report is really depreciating the work and skills of all the employees of the Supreme Audit Chamber, not its President. If the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber has infringed the rules of law, he should suffer the consequences by criminal proceedings, possibly civil proceedings or by dismissal. No one's questioning that. However, we cannot judge the work of NIK controllers by the problems concerning the President. In conclusion, Kukiz15 recommends that the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber be adopted for these reasons. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u456	Thank you, Member. Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Club15. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u457	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. President! High Izbo! We as Kukiz Members15 have some comfort, such psychological comfort, because we have not been in the Sejm before, we have not ruled, ruled by PO-PSL, today rule by Law and Justice, and we are talking about the 2015 report. We are not talking about the assessment of the President, we are just talking about a report on the work of 1,600 employees of the institution who prepares reports. As I remember correctly, in the last almost one year of our existence in the Sejm I have not heard once - I may be wrong, please correct me - so that anyone will question any report of the NIK, whether it's from the Platform, or from the PSL, or from the Law and Justice. More than that, when there was a famous government audit, Law and Justice ate up the NIK reports. It doesn't stick to the whole thing, because either the reports are so lousy, or it's all stitched up. Because it is fair to say, today I will say this as the head of the Parliamentary Council, which has a lot to do with the NIK reports, with the NIK employees, with the directors, with the deputies, while having a comparison with other ministries, that I never had any problem with access to the reports, nor with the quality of these reports. Moreover, as we know, our local government committee has also adopted the 2015 NIK Work Report. I'm talking about this year because it's an election year, ladies and gentlemen. In fact, when something is miserable and politically, and we at the Kukiz15 Club have a lot of allergies, believe me, it can easily get everyone involved, and as I said at the beginning, none of the parties ever questioned any of the reports, their professionalism, their quality or their merology. I stress this to make it clear that we are talking about the 2015 report, we are talking about the work of people, professionals, professionals. I say this and I stress that because we all know what is happening around the Constitutional Court. It's about this institution we're hearing, it's here the challenged judgments, the situation around all of this. If the President has sinned, why are we punishing an institution, a constitutional body? If the president has sinned, made a mistake, is to suffer consequences and punishment, the end, period, there is no doubt. It's clear and clear. To sum up, I would like him to have honesty and a pure heart along with the decency of the politician, and above all to be aware that it is worth looking in the mirror in the morning, to know that it has been done well and that you can look others in the eye. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u458	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Elizabeth Stępień, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u459	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! Invited guests! I'm supposed to talk about print number 618 and print number 671. Honestly, I'm confounded. Why? Because on the one hand we are flattered about employees, and on the other hand, by covering it with another reason, we put it out, we show them a yellow card. These are independent institutions in Poland which... Maybe otherwise, this is another independent institution, which is the salt in the eye of the PiS. First last week you attacked the RPO, and now, for political reasons, I believe, you are attacking the Supreme Audit Chamber. Political whip on the Supreme Chamber of Control is really a leap towards an independent institution that has a specific purpose: you want to subdue another institution. And NIK is a state control and law enforcement authority. He has the task of providing information about the state and its finances. I would add that, as a member of the committee, I participated in this last meeting at which we gathered the opinions of the 28 committees. All committees gave a positive opinion on the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber for 2015, and had no comments on it, while the arguments which were made by the rapporteur... As a member of this committee, I can say that I am ashamed that the committee has made this decision because the evaluation concerns the 2015 report of the entire institution of the Supreme Audit Chamber, not its President. I believe that the President's issue is a separate issue and should be dealt with separately. Please note that the reports of NIK were not always flattering and that they hit the coalition of the Civic Platform and PSL. Pathology and abuse and embezzlement of state assets have been reported many times in the reports. In conclusion: 117 inspections planned - beyond the plan - control of the implementation of the state budget by the authorising officers in 111 budgetary parts, 144 ad hoc checks carried out at the request of parliamentarians, citizens, institutions and media. Many reports were discussed at the meetings of the Sejm committees, where additional information could be obtained from the audits carried out. 126 criminal or criminal reports were sent to law enforcement, including 52 to the prosecutor's office. In fact, I could continue to mention, but the report itself on the activities of the Supreme Audit Chamber is extensive. The information obtained from the audit was information not only about mistakes and abuses committed, but also about positive and good examples that can be used in good practice and improving the state. At the initiative of the NIK, several dozen requests were submitted to amend the statutory provisions and regulations. The House pointed out the need to seal the tax system and a number of other issues affecting the protection of state finances and compliance with the law, also indicating improvements. The NIK is obliged by law to submit a work plan which is approved by the Sejm. There were no signals concerning malfunctions in the implementation or in the design of the programme itself. During the meeting of the Sejm Committee, the rapporteur mentioned that it was worth mentioning the synthetic description of the findings made in the framework of the checks and the results obtained. And here's the deal, with the next plan, it's worth taking into account. It is also worth emphasising what the rapporteur pointed out at the committee meeting, in terms of caring for workers and improving their competences, as a positive aspect. So we can enjoy a well-qualified staff. Bureaucracy? Yes, she is. This is a nightmare not only of the NIK, but also of the whole system. I also want to quote... With regard to the motion to reject the report, I would like to use the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. I will refer to the records of Mr Piotr Radziewicz, who said this: The Sejm committees cannot accept or reject the information of NIK. In particular, such competence does not stem from the right to consider information and to take general responsibility for the Sejm. This subsidiary does not extend to the internal organs of the Sejm. The rejection or acceptance of information by the NIK would have to result in some further legal effects, going beyond a purely political manifestation of its view. For example, the result of the Sejm's rejection of the report on the activities of the National Radio and Television Council may be, if the same decision is taken by the Senate, the expiry of all mandates, I apologise, then the term of office of all members of the National Radio and Television Council expires. The legal act of rejecting or adopting by the Sejm committees, that is, the Sejm sitting in plenary, any document originating from an entity of an external government towards the Sejm must have a clear legal basis in the substantive law. It should also specify the legal effects of this rejection or acceptance in the case of NIK. Furthermore, today, Minister Chapla has also provided a memo, which also shows that, in practice, the report has been adopted in principle without voting. It was based on the principle of not objecting. In the absence of any objection, the NIK report was deemed to have been accepted. The only case where the NIK report was the subject of a vote took place in the fourth term of the Sejm with regard to the NIK activity report in 2001. The report was finally adopted. The discussion is a discussion, it's questions and answers. Modern doesn't see the basis for not accepting. There is no positive recommendation from the Sejm Committee on State Control as regards the NIK activity report. In its opinion, it pointed out: "taking into account the need to make improvements to the work of the House, including those aimed at rationalising the internal organisation of the House, and to make systemic and ad hoc changes to NIK's staff policy. The opinion is not substantive, but political, directed at the person of the President of NIK, it does not refer to the whole functioning of the Chamber together with its employees. This allegation cannot be a ground for rejection. The end of 2016 is coming and therefore the 2016 NIK report and the 2017 plan are coming. I presume that, for fear of the state and its finances, you wish to replace the head of the House with an obedient and thus destroy another institution that upholds the rule of law. And I would like to give the floor now to Mr Meysztowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u460	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u461	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. President! High Izbo! Very fast. First of all, thanks to the president and all the guests for their work, for their hard work, for showing how a truly apolitical public service is to work. You are a model for government officials how they should function. And now for your attention. There's a saying, "What's a gingerbread for a windmill?" That's already been said. Why do you want to reject the report, even though you don't have the right, because there's no way? You have not even prepared from the legal side, because there is no way to reject this report. This is purely political action. How can you criticize the recruitment of NIK employees when we have Mr. Misiewicz's example? How'd he get hired? You changed your charter to hire your guy. You did the same thing to the voivods. To hire your guys, you changed the Voivodeship Act. And you have the audacity to talk about hiring employees to state institutions? It's outrageous that you're even talking about it. This is an unprecedented attack on another institution that is to look at the hands of the authorities. You want to get rid of all the institutions that can say that you're trespassing, you break the constitution, you break the law. This is the best example of how you do it. And now you're saying that the President has a motion to waive immunity. And what did you say when the Minister of Secret Service was convicted of one sentence? Is he a minister? He's a minister. What are you gonna do with Minister Ziobra who's been charged with abuse of power? [[♪ The bell ♪]] You guys okay with that? The minister who sat on the defendants' bench two days ago. That's good for you, isn't it? So don't be too thorough.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u462	Finish your work, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u463	First, look at what you're doing, and then let's wait for the procedure to go down with the president, because he might be acquitted. And then what? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u464	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Jan Łopata, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u465	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I have the honour to present the position of the club in relation to the report on the activities of the Supreme Audit Chamber in 2015. The High Sejm, when last week, exactly 5 September, I attended the meeting of the Committee on State Control when I listened to the rhetoric of the discussion, as a result of the proposed opinion, specifically opinion No 10 on the report on the activities of the Supreme Audit Chamber in 2015, I had an overwhelming impression, it was only today strengthened by the rapporteur's voice that you are freshly after reading the epoch, it is true, the works of Niccol Machiavelli, the Prince. There is a philosophy of power, among others. That the end justifies the means. This phraseological relationship means that if the goal is noble, glorious, then the way to achieve this goal can be dishonest, reprehensible, unhonorable. But I think you're confusing what I'm going to try to prove in a moment is a saying, this phraseological relationship with another, also quite commonly known and applied, namely, to go after the dead to the target. I'm more comfortable with that. And I'm thinking, and that's what we're going to find out, I suppose, in the near future, that you're going to win a pyrrus victory to end this part with these proverbs. High Seym! The Constitution of the Republic of Poland, namely Chapter IX: Authorities of State control and legal protection, describes precisely, among others. the operation of the Supreme Audit Chamber. It shall also describe precisely in Article. 205 and 206 means of appointment, role and place of the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber. Why am I talking about this? And that's why I'm talking about what you from the PiS do not cover, that you have just started the action according to the rule once proposed by the TKM, which you have proclaimed, to take over another institution, this time the Supreme Chamber of Control. It's an extraordinary embezzlement of the state, a country written in capital letters or in capital letters at all, meaning the homeland of all Poles. You do so without paying attention to the law in force. I was talking about the Constitution of the Republic and its records. From these provisions it is not possible to bring out in any way the idea of such an action and an opinion of such content, as well as from the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, which has already been cited here, but it is worth reminding it that there is no authority of the committee, including the Commission for State Control, to accept or reject the information of the NIK, and in particular such competence does not stem from the right to consider information and from the concept of a subsidiary of NIK to the Sejm, because it can be read in documents. The rejection or acceptance of information by NIK would have to result in some further consequences, further legal effects. This example, which was also quoted here: the consequence of the rejection by the Sejm in the same chapter of the National Radio and Television Council described may be, if the Senate so decides, the expiry of the term of office of all members of the National Radio and Television Council. In other words, the legal act of rejection or adoption by the Sejm committees of any document originating from a State authority must have a clear legal basis in substantive law and, in the case of the Supreme Audit Chamber, there is simply no such provision. Please accept this message. There's no such rule. I was talking about the legal consequences, questioning their creation by force, by corpses, to be consistent already. But, High Sejm, moral consequences or maybe in terms of opinions about people working in NIK, about their hard and much-needed work for the state, these consequences are already there. They echoed, these statements made by the rapporteur on the caste of directors and their deputies, their preference, as he said, even at the border of pathology. Let me just remind you that the remuneration of management and other employees is regulated by the Marshals of the Sejm in its order. High Seym! For 10 years as a Member, as a correspondent of the Committee on Public Finance, I have assessed the activities of the Supreme Audit Chamber, also as an opposition Member. It never occurred to me to dissuade the importance of this institution and insult the employees there. High Seym! I started Machiavelli, so maybe I'll end up with that message too. Well, Prince Machiavelli wrote five centuries ago. I would like to ask that this fact be taken into account in the activities of the Polish People's Party, and, in conclusion, I would like to say that the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party will be in favour of the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber for 2015. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u466	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Ireneusz Gaina, the Free and Solidarnia Club, the Free and Solidarnia Members' Circle, I apologize.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u467	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the report on the activities of the Supreme Audit Chamber in 2015. According to Art. 2 (2) 1 of the Law on the Supreme Chamber of Control of this institution is governed by the activities of government administrations, all its levels at central and field level, the National Bank of Poland, state legal persons and other state organisational units. To a limited extent, 14 state institutions are also required to be audited, including: Chancellery of the President of the Republic of Poland, Chancellery of the Sejm, Senate, Constitutional Court or Ombudsman. On the other hand, it is optional to carry out audits by the Chamber concerning the activities of local authorities, local and other local authorities and non-public entities in so far as they use State or municipal assets or resources. It must be said that these are extremely responsible tasks. A well-functioning NIK, with qualified staff, not fit for political pressure is essential for the proper functioning of the State. The implementation of the NIK recommendations, in particular by eliminating systemic irregularities from public life, helps to restore citizens' strong confidence in state institutions. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! I have prepared a standard speech on the work or the report on the work of the Supreme Audit Chamber. However, sitting here in the sitting room and listening to what the rapporteur, Mr Dziuba, from the control committee, and Mr Sharama, on behalf of the parliamentary club, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, I must say that I am surprised. Ladies and gentlemen! Don't do this. I grew up in the local government and there is such a good rule that the local government works well if the chairman of the review committee is someone from the opposition. The Supreme Audit Chamber has always been and is still under the direction of President Kwiatkowski, a very well-functioning institution. It is a professional public service that performs its function well. Even if there were these statements or allegations that the President had made a mistake, I would ask the President to account for this error, but I think we must all be aware that the political game which has been outlined here, presented by your parliamentarians from Law and Justice, will also have a negative impact on the institution itself, the Supreme Chamber of Control. I'm keeping you from doing this. This is ruining the country. I have spoken about this in many speeches and in many actions, in many votes I have supported a good change. Courageously, I took the floor publicly, many times I supported your initiatives when the so-called. The total opposition did not leave a dry thread on these initiatives, but in this case I really cannot agree with your proposal to resolve this situation. It's unbelievable. Unfortunately - in my mouth it sounds surprising - I have to agree with people, with Members from the Civic Platform and with the Modern Platform. I beg you, honourable parliamentarians of the Law and Justice, not this way. The report submitted by the President of NIK must be assessed as a substantive and high quality of the House's work in 2015. The Commission for State Control assessed the report negatively, building its position primarily on non-essential issues which were not related to NIK's statutory activities. In fact, my previous speaker, a Member of the Polish People's Party, rightly pointed out, because we checked this in a commentary on the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, that no committee has legal grounds to reject the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber. Then why did this happen in the case of the committee he represented? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr Dziuba? Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! Respecting the many years of valuable work and very good results of the work of the Supreme Audit Chamber in 2015, Members of the Free and Solidarni Posel Circle positively assess the report of the President of NIK on the activities of the Chamber in 2015 and request the adoption of the report by the Supreme Chamber. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u468	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of your fellow Members like to add further questions? If not, I'm closing the list. Mr Waldemar Buda, the Law and Justice Club, is the first question to be asked. Question time - 1 minute. [[I don't think Buda's messenger is here.]] Please, Mr Andrzej Gawron, Law and Justice. I'm so sorry, but behind that TV. You can't see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u469	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President! Let me put it this way: flowery erudition cannot be denied. The first question I have on my lips is why you didn't resign after the setup on the NIK directors competitions came out. And I wasn't wrong, Mr. President, what document we're discussing. NIK is the most important control institution in our country and who is its president has a key influence on its image, its credibility, trust and authority. You were talking about it, too. Short statistics on this over-five-page information we've received. The budget of NIK is about PLN 260 million, over 1600 jobs. In 2015, 2500 inspections were carried out and 7.5 thousand were received. citizens' complaints. And what was the effect of the job? 126 law enforcement notices [[♪ The bell ♪]] and 88 notices of the spokespersons of budgetary discipline. What was the further effect of these notifications, unfortunately we do not know, because the official responsibility in our country is fiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u470	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Law and Justice. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] There is no Member. Mr Sylvester Khrushch, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u471	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. President! High Izbo! I have a specific question for the government. Unfortunately, there are no government officials in our government today. I have a question. If it was so bad around the Supreme Chamber of Control, I would like to ask you which reports our government could not benefit from, which reports were incomplete, unsubstantiated, with the lack of all messages. If there's been reports like this, I'm asking for information that was specific. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u472	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u473	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. President! High Izbo! Several criticisms of the activities of NIK were related to the suggestion that NIK had not dealt with the justice system. I must confess to the fact that he managed to shoot two pigeons with one shot here because he attacked the NIK and attacked the justice system, but let's hit the chest because we're the ones who, as far as I know, are preparing a work plan for the NIK. I have a question for the President: Has the Justice Committee brought justice control into the work plan this year? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u474	Thank you very much, sir. The last question is asked by Elizabeth Stępień, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u475	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Question to the rapporteur: Is it true that this is not about approving the 2015 report, but more about holding the position of President? I would like to comment on a commentary, namely at the Sunday congress, Mr Kaczyński said that the dirty network of co-motery and nepotism will burn hot iron. If he takes his demands seriously, he should guard himself. The media reports that colloquially speaking of candidates for the post: Mr. Błaszczak, Sasin. Is it true that the report is purely political? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u476	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, President of the Supreme Audit Chamber, will speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u477	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I will start with what - I am not hiding - concerns me most during this discussion. The Supreme Audit Chamber is an institution in a specific way. A specific in such a good sense of the word, since due to the nature of the duties performed actually the number of so-called. management staff shall be greater than in any other public institution. Control, its conclusions, reflections are the result of dialogue between controllers and their supervisors, as well as, of course, the autonomy of the controller in terms of arrangements, but also the ability to synthesis and prepare proposals. And what you're trying to build in this room: the conflict between controllers and directors is profoundly unauthorized. I understand that there will be a draft amendment to the bill in this room, in which the directors of NIK will cancel, because they are also called in competitions and cannot be changed. I would like to say very clearly that in this institution 7% staff are management staff, directors, vice-directors, advisors to the President of NIK. There's no other institution like that. Whoever builds a conflict between directors and controllers destroys this institution and does so consciously and with evil will. And this is said by people like Mr Dziuba, who himself was the Director of the Supreme Audit Chamber and knows what the burdens, responsibilities and responsibilities of these people are. Today's squawking - I'm about to refer to specific passages of statements of misguided controllers - whether an attempt to build antagonism between controllers and directors is an act that is deeply unauthorized, harmful and devastating, demolishing the institution that I represent. I will now refer to concrete examples. Talking about statistics, about burden - as Mr Dziuba said - the work of controllers and drawing from this conclusion on the weak burden on the duties of controllers is deeply unauthorised and wrong. The Member first spoke of a one-and-a-half check per controller, recently spoke of two, and I will show him that you were wrong in these calculations too. As I understand it, the data you've provided is data from a simple split of 2.5,000. checks which were carried out by 1600 controllers, as a result - and let me remind you, of course, that the year has 200 days of work and not 360 - as I understand it, this one and a half days of control. It is important to remember that the calculations you presented are incorrect calculations. First of all, the controllers are slightly less than 1200. It's the first mistake of assumption. Of course, it can be assumed that this is a mistake, and then we would agree with this assumption, with one assumption, which is once again wrong, that one unit control is carried out by one controller. Mr President, you were the director, and you know that some checks are carried out by dozens of controllers in one unit. This cannot be divided: the number of controllers by the number of checks carried out, because e.g. in the control of the implementation of the state budget in the Ministry of Finance, there are several of our controllers due to the complexity of the controls. In 2015, as in previous years, I checked this - in one post-control unit check it participated, I ignore the largest ones in which a dozen of them participated - close to two controllers. Taking this into account, with your method of counting, last year the House has already carried out 4300 inspections carried out by individual controllers who have completed their post-control appearance. Only this number could be divided by the number of controllers, because in 2015 there were less than 1200 controllers and not all employees, as I said. Therefore, one controller has already carried out no more than one-and-a-half checks, as you said initially, not two, as you say today, but nearly four checks. And that's the number that indicates that it hasn't deteriorated, which I would very much like to say. I believe that if, on the basis of miscalculations, there is a critical assessment of the House's staff, because this is an evaluation not the directors, but you are directing this criticism to the controllers, suggesting that there is a low efficiency of these controllers, that is profoundly damaging, unauthorized and unfair. And that's why, by defending the good name of the controllers, I'm going to present this data everywhere, pointing out that the method of this calculation you presented is intellectually false, dishonest and erroneous. This is the first remark concerning what has been given. Comparing today's Supreme Audit Chamber to that of the early 1990s and saying that NIK was effectively chasing, for example. a case as well known as the Foreign Debt Service Fund, that is, comparing two completely incomparable situations. The beginning of the 1990s, I was a young man, but I remember this, then involved in the activities of various institutions of the democratic opposition, also in the 1980s, it was a period when there was no state institution functioning efficiently. It was NIK who showed that in the case of the Foreign Debt Service Fund we were dealing with an absolutely unacceptable situation, with a 25-year-old case, because then there were no such services as CBA, ABW, functioning efficiently, and the police were in the state in which they were, that the gangsters from Pruszkow and Wołomin were shooting in the streets. NIK was indeed the only institution in this area at the time. Today, luckily for us, there are almost 10 special services in the Polish state, including those dedicated exclusively to combating corruption, and the Supreme Audit Chamber is to present systemic proposals, those which later allow for a change of law, as I have shown you, those that allow for an increase in tax revenue, as I have shown you, those that allow to reduce expenditure from the state budget. The lack of understanding of the logic of the system functioning of the constitutional supreme state control body does not suit a former employee of NIK, who should know what NIK is doing, what powers he has and what other state institutions operating in this country are. [[Applause]] As for the next plea that the NIK could deal with the functioning of the justice system, I will say, of course, but to a certain extent, which we must remember. We must of course remember, first of all, the independence of the courts. Again, every member of the House knows this, we are specifically examining the financial expenditure of the courts and the prosecutors, and this is, of course, also in the framework of budgetary control this year. More, we have extended the scope of budgetary control for 2015. My personal decision in the judicial system was attached to the trial by district courts, appeals and more units of the prosecutor's office than in previous years. I could say that if I'm hearing about some activity, a desire to change justice, it's basically It's a tune I'm close to. I was the only Minister of Justice who introduced the rules introducing an assessment of the work of judges and prosecutors on the basis that the judges did not carry out judicial cases for a long time, whether the judgment of the Court of First Instance was repealed in the Court of First Instance, as the judges refer to the parties, the parties involved in the proceedings. It was my determination to record trials in courtrooms that led to my determination, contrary to the judicial environment. Contrary to the judge's environment, I have introduced assessments of the work of judges and prosecutors - whether preparatory proceedings are pending or whether the prosecution file prepared by the prosecutor was later defended before the court. It is only regrettable that my successors sometimes lacked determination, and among them are those who sit in your club today, in the consistent implementation of the changes I have prepared. That is why the issue of justice is very close to me. Anyone who knows the law knows that the Supreme Audit Chamber, first of all, cannot refer to cases that are being conducted within the courts. No one can persuade me to do that, a democratic rule of law speaks of independence, the autonomy of the authorities: executive authority, legislative authority and judicial authority, and the independence of the constitutional state control body. That's why I have to protest against the word "disciplined" of the Supreme Auditorium at this point. This is not the case for Parliament. It is Parliament's responsibility to adopt a report or reject, as I hear today, to adopt a budget, to present information to you, but this is an autonomous constitutional body and no one is authorized, in accordance with the laws in force in our country, to discipline, check and supervise it. Please do not use the word discipline because it is not even appropriate to use it at the moment. About the quality management system. It is fascinating to me that the system that we are talking about today does not appear in this year's report at all, because we did not introduce it in 2015. He was present in the report, but in 2014 and then you did not direct a single sentence of criticism against him. The rapporteur, Mr Czartoryski, who spoke, did not put forward a single criticism in this regard. Therefore, it is difficult to resist certain doubts as to whether this argument is not given instrumentally, given the need here and now. I'm saying this very clearly. If something entered into force 2 years ago, it was widely described in the report and then aroused no interest, not to mention doubts, and today these doubts appear, I ask the question what are the real intentions of the words spoken today in this matter. Saying that there are no controllers using this system is a radically bad will. This system is plugged in so-called. a quality control contest. On the basis of this competition prizes are awarded to controllers not because they like the President, but according to specific parameters they are allocated the best checks and then to the controllers who carried them out. In fact, this system makes even directors have to award prizes to those who participated in these checks. The auditors have been given the first time in this House thanks to the system we have introduced. Do not build conflict between controllers and managers, because there is no institution in which managers do something against controllers, and there is no institution, as you try to build an image that the House is generally good, but the evil are directors, and the great are controllers. I convince you to do this - great are the controllers, very good are the directors. I will refer to this further in terms of quality of HR. You ask about hiring administrative staff. Talking about control, which concerned traineeships and practices in the context of the House, and not hiring in any office, is also an abuse, I understand that convenient and nicely sounding as a rhetorical figure, but simply untrue in the context of the example given. As for the work in NIK, whether it is a team, and in fact there was a thesis that it was not a team, because, as I understand it - I quote - the highest salaries, the highest prizes, sitting work and often lack of support from directors for controllers - according to the Member who spoke these words - characterizes the management staff. I don't know if my directors read the papers, sit or stand. I understand you're interested in that. For me, they can read documents that are prepared in the Chamber, in any form of their body's system, and it is important that they read them well. I'm not gonna settle them for that, and I wish you luck for those of you who are gonna account for management. Do you know an institution where directors, managers, earn less than employees? To accuse management staff of having higher salaries than a number of employees - I quote: the highest salaries, is such a crazy charge that I don't even know how to comment on it. I don't know an institution where a number of employees generally make more money. Which doesn't mean that in NIK sometimes controllers have no higher prizes, because they sometimes have very high prizes for well done checks. I believe that this system is a very effective system. Now let me refer to the words of President Wojciech Sharama. Mr President said that we started working on this report without delay, and during the work we received a request, in the context of the competitions, to hold me accountable. This is the same conclusion that the Katowice Attorney has prepared, the comma has not changed in it, in the course of the election campaign and has now been renewed, so let's not say that these are new circumstances. This is exactly the same motion prepared by the Katowice prosecutors. I'm not gonna talk about the Katowice State's Attorney's Office, it's a well-known unit of the State's Attorney's Office. He said that he was largely convinced of the conflict of interest, that we were controlling the courts and the prosecution, and the Central Anti-corruption Office, and that this could be in conflict with the direction of the House's work. Mr President, you know very well that we do not control operations in special services because we do not have such powers. We don't control court cases that go on because we don't have that kind of authority. We don't control preliminaries or, colloquially speaking, investigations, because we don't have that kind of authority. So suggesting a conflict of interest in this case does not suit a lawyer, because it is basic knowledge at the level of a student of the first year of law, who knows that such actions carried out by these units of justice are absolutely autonomous. The person who may interfere with prosecution proceedings under the amended laws is Attorney General Zbigniew Ziobro as Chief Prosecutor of Prosecutors and not President of the Supreme Audit Chamber. Let's be serious. As for the report you were talking about regarding the Central Anti-corruption Office, yes, we have controlled the CBA's task of combating and combating corruption. We have shown how many places this programme can be better organized, better managed, with greater efficiency for the state. So the thesis that we are trying to avoid corruption with a broad bow is a false thesis. Yeah, we don't really do what the department does, we don't have operational techniques, we don't listen, we don't press charges, we're not a prosecutor, but we do it on a system. Thanks to us, you know how certain mechanisms for the functioning of these public institutions can improve and increase their efficiency to a higher level. You also said that the justice system should be a broader domain of the House's operation. It is right that Mr Meysztowicz spoke about this, to a limited extent, of course, as I said, if it is the will of the Sejm, this should be considered seriously, of course, within the framework of the mandates which the House has, but I would remind you that you are in an exceptional role, the authorities of the Sejm have the opportunity to instruct us to control. I'm gonna go over some horizontal risks here. The Member said earlier that there is a certain part of the control that does not fit into horizontal risks. I've done this analysis, post-control control, and I'm not complaining about it, but those checks that least fit into horizontal risks are those checks that were commissioned by the Sejm. I'm not saying this as a sniff, I'm just telling you that if next year I'm 100 A dozen or so planned inspections of 50 inspections are ordered by the Sejm, and we cannot order checks which are important, necessary, by decision of the Sejm committees, and then charge that they do not fit into horizontal risks that have been identified by the authorities of the Supreme Audit Chamber. Our audits, which the NIK itself has commissioned, prepared, analyzed, entered into the plan, the NIK analysis teams propose, fit into horizontal risks, and the Sejm, having its powers, has the possibility of commissioning various controls. And I'd be the last... I have taken this as a veiled form of criticism of Members, ladies and gentlemen. I will defend you and your fellow Members. Do not say that the proposals that they make do not fit into horizontal risks, because I believe that these controls are needed and even if they do not fall into horizontal risks, I think it is worth doing them. As for the passage related to the overall work of the Chamber for 2015, I will repeat once again: certain things, actions related to the evaluation of different situations will be carried out in other bodies. I will convince you that, in accordance with the provisions, this is a report on the activities of the Supreme Audit Chamber and all other doubts not concerning the activities of the Chamber as such should be resolved elsewhere. I will answer the questions of the Members who have been here. Mr Khrushcz asked if there were any non-material reports. This is, of course, a particular question addressed to those who speak about these reports, but I have not heard the words of criticism. You must know that those doubts that arose today about the competitions that were held in the House - I remind you that 40% The competitions in the headquarters were decided by my predecessor - they concern two people: one director of the delegation and one deputy director of the department in the headquarters. I'm gonna make it public that these are some of the best units. The Łódź delegation, because it concerns this situation, is a delegation which carried out an audit of acoustic screens in Poland. It is thanks to it, thanks to the changes in the laws that we proposed, that acoustic screens should not be built in a field where the area for construction is only in the spatial planning plan, the Polish state saves several hundred million PLN each year on the same built screens. Only on the Łódź - Warsaw section, almost PLN 600 million were spent on building acoustic screens. And then there's the cost of keeping these screens. It was this delegation that carried out the inspection at the fuel stations and showed how often fuel meters are falsifying to the detriment of the customer, oversold the amount of fuel sold. It was this delegation that carried out an inspection of the country's policy to clean up asbestos or is carrying out a check on dietary supplements. Today it is one of the best delegations in the country, and earlier it was a delegation with eternal labour conflicts. Yeah, I thought publicly, and I think the director of this unit should be an outsider, and that's what happened. Today it is one of the leading delegations. The same is true for the department concerned at the headquarters. I can tell you that today the management staff of NIK They're professionals. I hope that today, in words critically addressed to the directors, there is no veiled desire to amend the NIK Act in due course and to appeal to the directors because they are elected directors for the term specified in the Act. Let us protect a constitutional state control body whose purpose, purpose and responsibility is to present proposals to the State as a parliament on which public expenditure is borne rationally and public revenue in the form of tax payments is adequate to their obligations. I firmly believe that the Supreme Audit Chamber, the Polish Constitutional Audit Authority is, I say it with absolute conviction, one of the best in the world. And it was not by chance at the congress, which was also mentioned here, that the Polish NIK found himself in a group of several control bodies that were submitted as candidates for the best control body in the world for the past 3 years. I am talking about this with satisfaction, not knowing what the final decision will be, and which organ will win it, but I also appreciate how my directors' work is judged, and above all my external controllers, by those who, without giving in to the political emotions that sometimes can accompany us, from a distance, without emotion, can judge the work of the Supreme Auditorium. And that's really an assessment I can only be proud of. Once again, I would like to thank my colleagues for their work and what the effects of their work sometimes come to me also at the meetings of the relevant parliamentary bodies. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u478	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would ask the representative of the committee of Mr Tadeusz Dziuba. The Member wanted to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u479	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I will try - not to prolong our meeting - to answer as briefly as possible, but to some things I will be more specific. But before I do, I must remind you of a work that was created 185 years ago, ladies and gentlemen. It's a very beautiful little book called "Erystics," that is, the art of conducting disputes. It was written by German philosopher Schopenhauer, born in Gdansk. It provides 80 ways of conducting discussions in order to win the discussion with the adversary. Mostly, as I recall, all of these methods would be unfair. They are commonly used. Schopenhauer's size was that he could collect them, systematize them, and describe them quite accurately. Well, Mr Kwiatkowski, you applied a wide range of methods described in this book by Schopenhauer 185 years ago. One of these methods is the use of personal arguments, i.e. not responding to the fact, but discrediting the adversary. That's how I judge your intentions when you repeatedly called my name, running away from my essence, too. Another of these methods is the twisting of the thesis that was said in the discussion. For example, I did not say that working at NIK (here I quote you) is not of a team nature. I said the opposite. She's a team player. From this I have drawn the conclusion that this is why institutional relations, sustainable relations that build a climate of cooperation are so important. You didn't respond to that. I clearly said that the element of this imbalance (and I probably repeated it twice in my speech, and I also spoke about it at the committee meeting) is that the level of prizes in a small degree depends on the results obtained or on the contribution of work, but depends on the hierarchy. Mr. President, you know that very well. Paybacks are another thing, I was talking about prizes. Take a look at the practice you're applying and your predecessors. Of course, you don't stand out here. Please review the awards that were given in any time frame. It has always been the case that management received awards much higher than those who brought the findings which were the basis of the reports of NIK so highly praised, among others. by Members. I was quite clearly referring to the so-called issue. horizontal risks. Personally, I don't like that phrase, it's kind of new. But I really did not link this issue in any way (and you put such words in my mouth) with the quality of Members' demands on the subject of control. That, Mr. President, is a very serious abuse of you. You were talking about building antagonisms. The only thing is that these antagonisms - perhaps in a drastic way - have been building the Presidents of the House for years. That's what I'm talking about. through such, not another system of prizes. I have actually worked for 17 years in this company, I am emotionally involved with it, I value it very much and it is not convenient for me to speak critically about how the House is managed. This management I do not regard as exemplary, on the contrary, I think it is full of flaws. And that was the basis of our proposal, or at least the majority of committee members supported it. So it wasn't pleasant for me. But, gentlemen, you are building these antagonisms. Can you say with your hand on your heart that the best controllers get the biggest prizes that they have fast promotions that they're appreciated? I know what it looked like, and right now it's the only thing I know from the reviewers' relationship that's what it looks like right now. There is one thing I would like to say in detail, because it is indicative and worth mentioning. This will be an illustration of the abuse you committed in the discussion. Firstly, as I clearly said from this speaker, this indicator - yes and not otherwise thought out - amounted to two in 2015. There were 2500 approximately unit controls and 1,200 controllers, so just above two checks statistically the controller made in the year. It's a very simple indicator, but it used to be. Of course, in order to compare the facts, you have to use the same indicators and I just did. You can invent other indicators, go ahead. You can invent your indicator, but then apply it to past events as well. Let me say that this is your calculation - about four checks per controller - of a manipulative nature. That's how you figured out how to get that number out. [[President of the Supreme Chamber of Control Krzysztof Kwiatkowski: And vice versa, Mr...]] I will repeat once again (I will not respond to the voices from the room): The number of unit controls by the number of controllers is a simple indicator. If you want, you can call it simple, but you can use it and it was used. That's why I appealed to him. That's why we had a comparison. 10 years ago it was much bigger, now it's much smaller. It's not, God forbid, as you say, a charge against controllers. What do they owe that's how they get the job done? That's the charge. in relation to the managers of the Supreme Audit Chamber. You don't have to share that point of view, of course, but it's worth considering. It's a different detail. You regretted that when a quality control system was introduced, i.e. in 2014, the rapporteur then did not respond to this issue. Did he have a chance to respond? In a short period of time, it is difficult to tell how a system of organization works: good or bad. The system introduced for that period, which was subsequently revised in 2015, could be identified as the first impact in 2015. A little of that, even later, we can only now take a critical look at it and see what it looks like. It's a far-fetched bureaucracy. You claim that from this record, which is carried out under this system, practical conclusions are drawn from the fact that it is precisely on this, on these assessments, that the results of this system depend on the level of rewards and the level of promotions. I deny it. It's the opposite. With such an extensive bureaucracy, employees, of course, fulfill the necessary documents by carrying out a service commission, but then they do not benefit from it. On this basis, no analysis of the work of the controllers is carried out, and you know that very well. I am personally sorry that instead of covering this matter with silence, instead of taking advantage of the possibility of not speaking on this matter, you are trying to convince Members of a situation which is not reflected in the facts. I still have two questions to answer from my fellow Members. Mr Wilczyński referred to the fact that I was supposedly talking about some secret audit. I didn't say a word about it. I don't really understand why such an idea that this issue appeared in my speech. There's no basis for that. Mrs Stępień asked whether it was about the position of President or whether the position expressed by a majority of committees was really about the desire to replace the President of the House. I would like to remind you, Madam President, that at the committee meeting, when I was making a compromise, and at the moment, I did not refer to the question of the prosecutor's proposal at all, although I mentioned it at all. This issue was neither the subject of an evaluation of the committee during its work nor the subject of my interest here. Of course, I can't comment on the media rumors you've mentioned here either, because, in general, I don't do gossip. In conclusion, I would like to make it clear to all those who are listening to us right now where this difference of opinion comes from. I may appeal to a rather simple illustration, perhaps even funny, but she gives away the essence of things. The very essence of this, in my opinion, of the misunderstanding that we are witnessing here. I will ask you this question: What do we expect from the doctor to whom the patient comes with a known inflammation? Do we expect him to do nothing to wait for this condition to develop to make a good diagnosis? Do we expect him to take action after all? Well, we're in this doctor's position. As it is clearly said, the way in which the House is managed is affected by considerable and serious shortcomings. Fortunately, this is not yet translated into the effects of the work of the outside NIK. Indeed, the NIK reports are always accepted with great interest. I have spoken many times about the fact that this is a really solid documentary material. But just because bad management didn't translate yesterday, and today it doesn't translate clearly into work results, doesn't mean it won't happen tomorrow. So if we really care about the Supreme Audit Chamber, let's think about the shortcomings in management and take appropriate action. These actions must be taken, more generally, by the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber and by the management. It's not like we're gonna do this for you. But we must show that we do not agree with passiveness in this regard. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u480	Thank you very much, sir. In correction mode, President Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u481	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! In advance, I would like to point out that this will be a nice correction... [[And short.]] ...because I care about building a good atmosphere around the House. I have good information. The Member asked for prizes related to the checks carried out. From the awards for the checks carried out, directors and vice-directors are excluded. None of them can get a reward from this fundraiser... [[Ha, ha, ha!]] ...and that's part of the system. And as for the number of checks, I absolutely do not assume evil will here, it is certainly a misunderstanding between us, because I was referring in detail to the speech from the Parliamentary Committee. I will be very specific about this and everyone's speech - I would like to stress: everyone - who is taking the floor in today's discussion, let me read the written minutes. I approach every speech with good will, with good intentions, and I would like to take advantage of these advices and suggestions to improve the quality of the management of the Chamber, because I have no doubts and I want to believe that the intentions of all present were only connected with the desire to improve the quality of the institution's work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u482	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In the discussion, a request was made not to adopt a report on the activities of the Supreme Audit Chamber in 2015. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 13 September this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you like to sign up to make a statement? If not, I'm closing the list. And as the first statement, Mr Bartłomiej Stawiarski, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u483	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank PKP PLK and the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, which, after 70 years, decided to renovate railway crossings in Namysłowa. Of course, I will make such thanks in writing to the Ministry, but I was asked to speak in the Sejm as well. At this moment, on Monday, the renovation of one of the railway crossings in Namysłów, on the municipal road, ul. Piłsudski. The following week, two further rail crossings will be renovated at the intersection of the street. Oławska and ul. Chrobrego, then - along the district road of Przeczów - Namysłów, on ul. Kraszewski. Of course, renovations of these journeys - such declarations I received during talks in the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction with PLK representatives - do not close the topic of modernization of railway line No 143 Wrocław - Mikołajów - Oleśnica - Namysłów - Kluczbork, because it is crucial for the development of infrastructure in the north of Opole. Originally modernization of this line was estimated at PLN 500 million. Finally, after calculating the national railway programme, it turned out to be 1100 million. Nevertheless, I have declarations from the Ministry of Infrastructure and PKP PLK that the preparatory work, the design work on the modernisation of this line will continue. Right now, we're at the stage of environmental arrangements. If there are savings in other railway investments, this line will also be modernised, whether in stages or in whole. However, for the inhabitants of Namysłowa these railway crossings were crucial at the moment. They were in such a state that practically impossible was the smooth movement of the car, the smooth movement of the bike. Also mothers with wheelchairs with small children had problems, so there were crooked plates. That is why I thank PKP PLK once again for having fulfilled these declarations that were made during the talks that he had with me at the Ministry of Infrastructure. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u484	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Simon Giżyński, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u485	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday's invasion of modern messengers at a meeting in the Sejm with the Venice Commission reminds us of the situation of canned sardines exceeding their respective species dimensions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u486	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u487	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In my statement, I would like to raise a very important problem related to the sale by InPost of its daughter's company Safe Letter to Tenes One. Safe Letter Company, employing at least 1200 people, was sold for about 10,000. zł. The transaction took place on 8 August this year. On 10 August, employees were scheduled to receive wages, but this did not happen. I believe that there has been a breach of the law through the lack of payment of due remuneration, checks, the equivalent of unused holiday leave, the failure to issue signed Blanco notes and work certificates. The employees of the company all over Poland remained without means of living and the possibility of recovering the benefits due to them. This is not the first case in Poland when employees have not been paid the remuneration due. In view of this situation which should not take place in the State of law, I call on the High House to take action which will not allow for a similar situation in the future. And from recent press reports, it appears that the relevant state institutions have already taken appropriate procedures to clarify the situation. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u488	Thank you very much, sir. Katarzyna Czochara, the Law and Justice Club. There is no Member. Mrs Bernadette Krynick, Law and Justice. There isn't. Please, Mr Czesław Sobierajski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u489	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Yesterday, i.e. On September 12, we celebrated the 333rd anniversary of the Battle of Vienna. It was Jan III Sobieski who defeated the Ottoman Empire and protected Europe from Islamism. The Polish king commanded allies: Polish and German, which defeated the Turkish army besieged Vienna, thus inflicting one of the most severe disasters of the Ottoman Empire, which never rose from it again. This was a crucial moment for Europe. Following the defeat of Vienna, Turkey went to defense, and its centuries-old struggle for the transfer of Islam into the European continent was halted. Before the battle, King John III Sobieski, along with the Polish army, was at the Holy Mass at Kahlenberg, serving the Holy Mass and receiving the Holy Communion, and on the banners of the knights he ordered to write Mary's name. With such a cry, the Polish army went to battle with the Turks. After the victorious battle, the king wrote to Pope Innocent XI: venimus, vidimus et Deus vicit, i.e. We came, we saw, and God conquered. Pope Innocent, grateful to God for the victory of Vienna for the cause of Our Lady Mary, announced on 12 September the feast of Mary's name throughout the Church to commemorate the victorious battle of Christians over the followers of Islam. This year marks the 320th anniversary of the death of the great King John III Sobieski, who died on 17 June 1696 in the palace in Wilanów, Warsaw, and rests on Wawel in the crypt of St. Leonard. The Turkish Slayer left a will on three main issues, still up-to-date: reforming the state, stopping the opposition conspiring with foreign powers and defending Islam. One can say that this is the will of a great king for contemporary Poland. I would like to remind the universe of King John III Sobieski, who addressed to the voivodship sejmists: "Every Pole will warm up and attract to fight a son's love for his mother, his homeland, but also the glory of God, the desire to defend his own churches, the desire to preserve the freedom that our ancestors have fought, but also mercy for those Christian brothers who die in the war with Islam, respect for the shed blood of innocent civilians slaughtered under the occupation of the enemy. 300 years after these appeals, the arguments of the great king remain in force. To conclude, I would like to quote the important words of Professor Andrzej Nowak, which he gave in January 2013 at the Tuesday club meeting in Krakow: Poles have a mission to unify the peoples of Central and Eastern Europe, as well as to complete the work of evangelization of lay Europe, for which St. John Paul II. Today there is this cry to save the West from Islam again. Reflections of victorious ancestors can help us to accomplish these great acts. And our reflections on outside-inspired 17th-century traitors pretending to be patriots will help us to understand today's concern abroad about the situation in Poland. That's enough for the smart guy. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u490	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Jack Kurzepa, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u491	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Fellow Members! In principle, I address this evening's time to the organization of "Sagittarius," to young people in scout uniforms from the Polish Scouts Association, from the Association of Scouts of the Republic, from European scouting, but also to young people from the Catholic Youth Association and many other organizations, which were still recently, on 1 March, as well as in Gdańsk at the funeral of "Inka" and "Zagońska" so many were present. But why am I addressing you and what am I addressing you for? Here in this room last week, from this speaker, the Deputy Minister of National Defence, Prof. Wojciech Fałkowski, answered my question, pointing out that the Ministry is taking action in connection with systemic health care and, I would say, such a care activity over the environments of cursed soldiers and the environment of insurgents. Great initiative, great action. This system support will be possible if we identify and create a list of those who need such support. And I'm talking about people who are at the end of their lives, whose entire biography is connected with the service of their homeland and the armed act of defending it or of liberating it. I happen to be here in the Seym, one of them today, 88-year-old pore. Henryk Atemborski, one of the last soldiers of the National Armed Forces, ps. Armored. His condition is as he is, as a 88-year-old may be, but as it happens, he's been sick the last few days, needed help, hospitalized, then a sanatorium. And so what if the Minister says there's a way to go, that the ministry will help if it goes to the department where it's no name, it's nameless? Although the nursing or medical community realizes that it may be an interesting figure, they do not have enough time, or maybe a desire to lean over his biography and try to treat this patient in a special way. Of course, each of us as a patient needs the same care and care, but these are industry hospitals, these are resort hospitals, and it seems that this help is essential. Therefore, I ask you, Boy Scouts and shooters, find them, identify them, help us to get on the lists in military counseling facilities, in defense departments, because there has been a directive relating to special care and subsidiarity towards insurgents and insurgents. But it's not just that you're going to make a formal registration of a patient in a new POZ, but it's also necessary to sometimes go to the pharmacy to get some drugs to sometimes drink this lush one, because it's not a strong tea, to sit together. There's one more thing. Sometimes the homes they come from are houses where history has greatly expanded the young generation and the old generation. Sometimes they can't talk to their children, because their world, their perception of values and politics, lies at a completely different pole. So I ask you, too, those who still have them alive, to make peace, to support them, to show respect and concern. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u492	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Waldemar Andzel, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u493	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On August 28, we celebrated the 70th anniversary of the death of the paramedic and liaison 5. The Vilnius Brigade of the Home Army of Danuta Siedzikovny ps. Inka. I would therefore like to say a few words about the life of this heroine from the division of Major Slimpy. Danuta Sidzikówna was born on 3 September 1928. She was the daughter of Wacław Sidziek, a forester, and Eugene from the house of Tyminska. She had two sisters, Wiesława and Irene. During the war, Danuta Siedzikovna studied at the Salesian Sisters' School in Rosarystok. In December 1943, she joined the Home Army, where she received medical training. Less than a year later, Inka started working in Hajnówka's fortress. When she was 17, she was arrested for collaborating with an anti-communist underground. She was released by the Vilnius patrol of AK Stanisław Wołoncej Konusa, then as a paramedic took up duty in the Konusa branch and then the squadron por. Jana Mazura, Piasta and por. Mariana Pucińskiego.Mścisława. For a short time her superior was also Lor. Leon Beynar, Deputy Scoundrel. That's when Danuta Sidzikówna assumed Inka's alias. At the turn of 1945 and 1946, as Danuta Obuchowicz, she began working in Miłomłyn's fortress. She made contact with the priest at the time. Zdzisław Badocha, the commander of one of the squadrons of Skull. After his death, she was sent to Gdansk for medical supplies. There on July 20, 1946, in an apartment on the street. Wróblewski 7 in Wrzeszcz, one of the contact locations 5. The Vilnius AK Brigade, whose addresses were revealed previously by the security detail Regina Żylińska-Mordas, was arrested. She was placed in pavilion V of the prison in Gdansk. She was beaten and humiliated, and yet she didn't give any testimony that would incriminate the members of the Vilnius AK brigades. Ince, among others, was accused. involved in attacks on MO and UB officers. However, there were discrepancies in the statements of the militia themselves. One of them admitted that she gave him first aid when he was injured. Danuta Sidzikówna was sentenced to death on August 3, 1946, at the age of 17. The defender, Mr Inka, asked President Bolesław Bierut for mercy. Unfortunately, it didn't work. In the flu to the Nicholas' sisters from Gdansk shortly before she died, she wrote: "Tell my grandmother that I behaved properly." The sentence was executed on 28 August 1946. Danuta Sidzikówna was shot with Felix Selmanowicz ps. Zagończyn by the commander of the firing squad. Franciszek Sawicki in prison at ul. Chicken in Gdansk. During the period of the communist propaganda communist propaganda called "Inka" a bandit. In 1991, on the other hand, the Provincial Court in Gdańsk found the judgment of the Military District Court condemning Danuta Sidzikówna as invalid. The burial site of Danuta Sidzikówny until 2014 was unknown. On 8 January 2015 Krzysztof Szwagrzyk, the leader of a group of scientists, provided information on the location of the remains of Danuta Sidzikówny. On 28 August 2016, the state funeral of Danuta Sidzikówna and Felix Selmanowicz ps. Zagończyk at the Garrison Cemetery in Gdansk. The President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Duda issued a decision to appoint Danuta Sidzikówna as first rank officer. Hello and praise the heroes! Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u494	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u495	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Adam Chmielowski is a Polish Franciscan monk, founder of albertines and albertines, insurgent, painter, saint of the Catholic Church, known for his full dedication to work for the poor and homeless. It is a character known throughout Poland, but also special for my city, for Puławy. He is the patron of the city and patron of the Roman Catholic parish. His name is also known as the Society for Helping them. St. Albert's brother. Just a few days ago, on Friday 10 September 2016, the 25th anniversary of the existence was celebrated by Puławy near the Society for the Help of them. St. Albert's brother. The mission of society is to bring together people of good will who want to act for the sake of the other man in the spirit of their patron through the creation of shelters, shelters, baths, kitchens used by people in need of help. Since the beginning of the hostel in Puławy, 2500 people have been sheltered and 1500 persons have received emergency assistance in the form of food, clothing or a single night's lodging. Circle of the company also carries out activities in the field of social assistance, including helping families and people in difficulty and equalizing their opportunities, and in health protection by combating social addictions and pathologies. The celebrations of the Jubilee began with the Holy Mass at the church of St. St. Albert's brother in Puławy and then continued at the hostel's premises. The hostel for men has 48 fixed places. During the winter period, it increases the number of seats to 75 if necessary. Provides shelter, daily meals, baths, clothing exchange, systematic pastoral care, contact with rehabilitation and social assistance. The celebrations were attended by many distinguished guests expressing respect and appreciation for the achievements of the company, thanking the management and all members involved in the activities. The presence of many delegations representing the Society's Circles of Help was particularly impressive. St. Albert's brother from all over Poland. They proved by their presence and words that they are one large family of those who sacrifice themselves to those who need help, to those who are poor, who are unable to cope with the difficulties of everyday life, to be homeless, living apart from their families. I congratulate the management and members of the Puławy Circle on the anniversary of the 25th anniversary on my warm congratulations and thanks. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u496	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Marcin Porzucek, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u497	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Historical policy implemented by President Andrzej Duda and Law and Justice consists in restoring the memory of Polish heroes and showing the truth about the difficult fate of our homeland. The political environment of Law and Justice is real and very concrete in this regard. We have introduced a debubecism and decounization law, we are strengthening the importance of the Institute of National Remembrance. All these activities, as well as a special event, such as the ceremonial funeral ceremony of Danuta Sidzikówny and Felix Selmanowicz, organized on the 70th anniversary of the murder of members of the independence underground, are a new quality in historical politics and restoration of memory and national pride. We rebuild the community by cultivating what is beautiful - our national values and identity. Patriotism is in our heart. It has different faces, but one denominator - Poland. On this occasion, it is not possible to go indifferently against various provocations, attacks and incomprehensible speeches of opposition politicians who either perform happening during the funeral ceremony of Polish heroes, or put on dresses like safari or do not participate at all in such important events. We have to deal with this, but we also have to face the problem that affects us locally. There are still monuments in Poland in honor of the Red Army. That's how it is in my constituency, in the Greater Poland Trzcianka. Together with residents and local authorities and central institutions, we are working to transfer the remains of Red Army soldiers from the city centre to the cemetery. It is also about the liquidation of the mausoleum - a monument located in the center of the city. Local authorities cannot freely implement investment plans supported by residents. Building historical narratives based on truth and the love of freedom gives the opportunity to strengthen the sense of patriotism. Therefore, despite the difficulties and understandable specificities of current international relations, it is still worth looking for solutions for the removal of post-communist symbols from the public space. As Poles and as patriots, we owe it to all those who have suffered the highest sacrifices throughout history for free and sovereign Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u498	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr. Piotr Uściński, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u499	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear fellow countrymen! The Parliament of the Republic of Poland has a great opportunity in this term of office, the opportunity to defend the weakest, unborn children. We have a chance to abandon the civilization of death, stand on the side of life. Today, a law called abortion compromise allows the killing of sick children conceived as a result of a forbidden act. Innocent, little people are killed in public hospitals, for public money, under the law. There have been cases of forced doctors and nurses to participate in this activity, there have been cases where people who refused met repression. We can stop this. The so-called abortion compromise, which allows the killing of vulnerable people, is against natural law, against human rights, is incompatible with the Polish constitution. The Constitutional Tribunal in 1997 examined one of the cases permitting abortion and repealed it. The justification is that the value of human life cannot be put above the value of the lower order. If the Constitutional Tribunal had then examined all cases, it would have repealed all cases. I wonder why no one has reported it to the tribunal for so many years, why the Constitutional Tribunal has not dealt with it so far. A citizens' bill to protect life was recently sent to the Sejm. A petition signed by thousands of people will soon come. Civic project - also hundreds of thousands of signatures underneath it. Let's not waste time, let's make good laws. Let us also care for the mother and their children, and let us care for the whole families. Let us take care of those who are in difficulty because of the pregnancy, the difficult pregnancy, when the child is sick, or the pregnancy that was caused by the forbidden act. Let us help mothers to love their children, even if they are sick, even if they are conceived in a difficult situation. And if the mother can't love this baby, let's help find the adoption family. Let us support sick families, help them to part with their children when the child is born sick and dies. Let's make it safe, let's not make it kill. A law that encourages abortion today causes this to be a lifelong trauma for those women who have committed it for their entire families. I firmly believe that there will be a majority in this House, composed of Members of all groups, who will stand on the side of life. Let Poland become a good example for Europe, for the world. Let the moral renewal of the whole of Europe and the whole world begin with Poland. Let's show you that you can. Hallelujah and forward! Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u500	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Jack Wilk, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u501	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! At the end of April 2016, the Treasury's debt reached an astronomical amount of PLN 882 billion. Thus, every citizen today has more than 23 thousand to pay back. zł. Each Polish child comes into the world with a dowry in the form of debt equal to the gross annual earnings of a minimally earning Pole. By the end of April the Treasury's debt increased by more than PLN 47.3 billion, i.e. about 5.7% in relation to the end of 2015. Since the beginning of 2016, domestic debt has increased by PLN 34.9 billion and foreign currency debt has increased by PLN 12.4 billion. In opposition, Law and Justice criticized the ruling Civic Platform for the scale and pace of the country's debt. Today, law and justice, alone in power, indebted Poland even faster. In the first quarter of this year. Prime Minister Beata Szydło's government indebted future generations of Poles to PLN 37.2 billion. It's much more than the debt of the predecessors. Let us remind that in the first quarter of 2015 the government of Ewa Kopacz indebted our children and grandchildren to PLN 26.8 billion. Governments of the Civic Platform indebted Poland at a rate of PLN 40.70 billion per year, the current government borrows such sums within 4 months. The debt of the Treasury is not everything. The future generations of Polish citizens will still face the need to pay the liabilities of the ZUS, the debts of local governments and the hidden debts of various state institutions and municipal companies. The cost of handling public debt is huge, last year it amounted to almost PLN 37 billion, i.e. twice as much as this year's cost of the programme. This is more than annual income tax revenues from corporate tax, CIT, more than annual expenditure on national defence, is more than half of the total cost of construction of all existing Polish motorways today. These costs will increase, because not only the debt itself increases at an alarming rate, but also due to the violent policy of the Polish government, the profitability of government bonds is growing. However, the government follows the old rule: after us even the flood, and even the gloomy fate of Greece did not teach anything to our ministers. We also recently learned the assumptions for the draft budget law for 2017. As regards the position: budget deficit, astronomical amount, record, 60 billion PLN. It's an absolute record. So the madness of life at the expense of future generations continues. Many times the Law and Justice have talked about this, about the sovereignty of the state, about independence, forgetting that sovereign debt is a crawling loss of sovereignty. All young Poles, even the youngest, even those who do not know what income is, income, anything in their lives they earn, what they earn, any wealth. They'll reach, it's already being set up mostly in foreign banks. This is the crawling loss of sovereignty, very painful. Let us ask ourselves a simple question: Will the young Poles, when they grow up, want to pay off these debts of their predecessors? Do we have a moral right to owe someone without their consent? Who gives us that right? The question is whether these Poles will want to be burdened with these debts. Let us remember that it is a bad philosophy that it is important that a certain percentage of the debt remain in relation to the gross domestic product. This is a wrong assumption, because fewer and fewer young Poles will have to pay more and more debts. The moment of collapse will come and it will actually be a moment of truth for Polish finances. So let's hope that the current ruling crew, however, will reflect and end this madness. Let's hope we can finally learn from previous mistakes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u502	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Mark Matuszewski, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u503	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Last week was the 77th anniversary of the Battle of Bzura. This historic event is referred to as the biggest clash of the September campaign and the biggest battle in the lap in the early stages of the war. On September 9, 1939, the army of Poznań and the army of Pomerania began to attack. The first stage of the battle was the attack on Stryków, where our soldiers surprised a disoriented enemy and achieved considerable success. Then the white-red troops began attacking the occupied enemy of Łowicz. This was a time when our army had achieved considerable success and drove the enemy into serious problems, which forced the Germans to bring additional troops to the front. The final stage of the battle was the retreat towards Warsaw. It was only when the force-strength enemy proved to be too numerous to be able to fight them. The Polish Army showed extraordinary heroism and fought a heroic fight for freedom with many more troops of the opponent. This battle was of great importance, and it was permanently recorded on history cards. Resistance and fierceness in the fight of our soldiers delayed the attack of the enemy and provided such a valuable time to prepare the defense of Warsaw. I am pleased that the local authorities have been very involved in commemorating these historical events. The municipalities, in which 77 years ago there were fights, celebrated the memory of the fallen, organizing ceremonies with the participation of the Polish Army. The 1939 events testify to the heroism of our soldiers. They were commemorated in such places. villages, such as Łęczyca or Friday. These are places where once our compatriots in eagle uniforms gave their lives in the name of the highest values. The celebrations of the anniversary were not only symbolic. We honored all those who took part in the battle. We must remember those who have shown true courage and an attitude worthy of imitation. Today we consider them national heroes, who did not look at the number of their opponents outnumbered and the odds they had in this fight. They stood together in defense of their homeland, and this was their goal during difficult fights. It is this huge charisma, the courage of our army that we can live in a free country today, use Polish language and celebrate celebrations under the white and red flag. The Polish Army was appreciated by many nations for their efforts during World War II. However, those who should remember them always and everywhere are us, Poles. Remembering their independence and fierceness in the fight of our soldiers, each of us should treat them proudly and respectfully. It was because of events such as the Battle of Bzura that the Polish army became a role model for the nation. I would once again like to express my joy that the fights of our soldiers are commemorated, and history is passed on to young generations. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u504	Thank you. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u505	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The decline of summer is a time of summary and thanksgiving for the harvest and work of farmers. The harvest festival reminds us that each of us uses the fruits of agricultural labor. The harvest, the feast of all the farmers, is one of the most beautiful national traditions. The ancient and deeply rooted in the culture and mentality of the Polish village has survived many attempts. Taking up the effort of the service of the earth and people arouses admiration, recognition and the greatest respect, all the more so since this service is also measured by the amount of blood shed in defence of freedom of compatriots and Polish borders. Respect for culture and tradition combined with man's love for the earth is a pillar of our national identity and pride. The Holy Father. John Paul II in Niepokalanów in 1983 addressed the following words to farmers: "In a special way, you have been entrusted by the Creator with every plant that brings grain all over the earth and every tree whose fruit has seed in it, that it may be food for all. This land is born of "thin and osset," but thanks to your work it is to give birth to food, to bring bread for man. This is a particular source of the dignity of working on the ground. Your dignity. Polish farmers have huge potential of the spirit and mind. Their strong will, their perseverance, their steadfastness and their need for development are of great strength in the arena of Europe as a whole. We are proud and at the same time aware of how many difficulties and barriers, however, are still to be overcome. Providing assistance and support for the development of Polish agriculture is our duty on the one hand, but also an expression of thanks to the whole society for their daily bread. Dear Farmers! I would like to express my special gratitude to you for your devoted work and respect for the Polish land. Your enormous diligence, courage and dedication and the cultivation of the tradition of the Polish village arouses admiration, appreciation and high respect. With all my heart I wish you good health, weather and perseverance in this beautiful and hard work, which, reaching the oldest roots of Polish national identity, is the source of our dignity. God bless you!
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u506	Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! Today I would like to say a few words about the Street of Tradition organized in Radom for the seventh time. The organizer of this event is the Civic Resursa. This event is a romantic tour of the interwar 20th anniversary, which reminds the Radoms of this time. Many Radomians are happy to participate in this event, where they learn the history of our city and country through fun, concerts and shows. The street of Tradition is a great outdoor event taking place in the heart of our city, in the Old Town. Every year on the show, everyone will find something for themselves. On stage you can listen to concerts of bands playing different types of music, from jazz to folk to klezmer music. It is worth mentioning that Radom's history is very rich, and our city has always participated in the most important historical events. Therefore, there are always concerts of courtyard bands playing so well-known Polish folk music, and there is always a place for the klezmer band, which reminds residents of the non-existent but so numerous community of Radom Jews. In addition to the concerts took place, as every year, the Rally of the Old Automobiles - the prize is the Mayor's Cup of Radom - where we could admire many beautiful cars from the past era. In the outdoors, Radom Military Orchestra presented her skills this year, and we were also honored to present prizes for the winners 48. Polish Airplane Acrobat Championship. The street of Tradition is a multifaceted event. Apart from the events on stage, among others. in Resurs, or in the streets of the Old Town, the Radomians could see many lectures with comments from outstanding historians about interwar aviation or the history of Radom from the first days of occupation. Every year the Street of Tradition is organized under a different slogan, this year under the slogan "Aviations and Variations," therefore so many events were devoted to aviation, especially to this interwar one. There have been many lectures and demonstrations of old aircrafts, there have also been memories of heroic airmen from our surroundings, but it was not only the theory that encouraged Radomians to learn about this subject, but also many practical events such as urban play, flight simulator or gyroscope exercises. Ladies and gentlemen, there have also been many performances, including: musical Hallo Szpicbródka and a performance of the town of R., based on the works of Radom writers, as well as seances and lectures concerning old films. For ladies there was a fashion show inspired by costumes from the era prepared by the School of Leather and Clothes Styling and Services Team and a competition for the best outfit among the audience, and also concerts and tango shows, which were tango in such a favourable atmosphere could be danced. In the afternoon, there was a concert "Singing Everyone Can" which was performed by Radom artists, presenting former hits. The Tradition street ended the fireworks show - the ceremony was officially closed. I'm glad to see that every year this party gathers so many guys from Radom and surroundings.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-13-sejm-25-1.u507	I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. 14 September 2016 at 10 p.m. 9. Thank you. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 23 min 44]]
