ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u1	Resume session. High Izbo! Welcome to the President of the Republic of Poland, Mr Andrzej Duda. [[Applause]] Hello the President of the Council of Ministers, Mrs Beata Szydło and the members of the Council of Ministers. [[The gathered get up, give a round of applause]] I welcome the members of the diplomatic corps who have come to hear the information of the Foreign Minister. [[Applause]] I would like to call on Mr Kubov, Mr Sobonia, Mr Babiarz and Mr Tulayev's New Year's Eve to be the secretaries of today's proceedings. The first part of the session will be Mr Krzysztof Kubów and Mr Artur Soboń. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Artur Soboń and Sylvester Tulaev. I'm asking the secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u2	I would like to inform you that the European Union's Committee on Affairs will meet today at 3 p.m. 13. The following parliamentary teams will also be held: - Opole Parliamentary Team - hour 10, - Parliamentary Group for: solving the problems of the so-called inhabitants. Poland-Gminna County - h.o.b. 10, - National Democratic Parliamentary Team - h.m. 12, - Parliamentary Group for: Development of Eastern Poland - h.m. 15, - Parliamentary Team for Supporting Entrepreneurship and Economic Patriotism - h.m. 15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u3	Thank you very much. We proceed to the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Information of the Minister of Foreign Affairs about the tasks of Polish foreign policy in 2016. I ask Foreign Minister Witold Waszczykowski to present the information. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u4	Mr. President! Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ministers! High Izbo! Dear Friends of the Diplomatic Corps! Ladies and gentlemen! It is a great honor for me that as a representative of the government of the Republic of Poland, I can present today to the Sejm, gathered guests and citizens of our country information about the tasks of Polish foreign policy in 2016. Thank you for the presence of the President, who, in the field of foreign policy in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution, cooperates with the President of the Council of Ministers and the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Harmonious cooperation between the President and the Government regarding the difficult tasks facing us today is extremely important. This cooperation strengthens Poland's position. This is the first exposé of the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the new cabinet. So it is my task to define the goals of Polish diplomacy not only for 2016, but also a broader vision of foreign policy, which we would like to pursue in the next four years. This is so important that, due to technological and social changes, armed conflicts, economic crises, migration in front of our eyes, the erosion of the old world order reaching the roots of the end of the Cold War or even further - the end of World War II. At the heart of this global uncertainty and instability, Europe, weakened by the recession, divided against the background of the various visions for the development of the European project and surrounded by wars just behind its threshold. This negative experience has also become a part of Poland, which is part of Europe and which since the beginning of its history shares with it the bottom and the misery. In the case of our country, this situation takes on a particular pronunciation, because despite the passage of a quarter of a century since we were freed from the communist system imposed on us, we cannot say that we have achieved all the goals that led to the Polish society in 1989. When we first joined NATO and later to the European Union, it seemed that we stood on some ground that we could forget the difficult dilemmas of a country located between the East and the West. Today, more than ever, we feel that we have been overly optimistic about our position. We have entered institutions that, although they are built on the strategic interests of the Member States in the community, do not remove the differences in national priorities, but only the debates around them include the civilised rules of the political game. Therefore, it is not enough to be a member of one international organisation or another, but it is important to actively, in a sense of subjectivity, shape its policy, pursue the interests of the Republic of Poland, ensure the real security and conditions of development for all citizens. The current government is determined to achieve these goals by leading a courageous and realistic, and above all, an effective foreign policy based on four premises. Firstly, we will seek to root foreign policy into the political will of sovereign states which, if they are united by a deep community of values and interests, are ready to work together jointly and severally to achieve common objectives. NATO and the European Union are growing from these sources. Secondly, we will base policy on the primacy of international law on brutal force, on the idea of a concert of powers dividing the world into zones of influence against the will of societies. Hence the Polish attachment to the principles of the United Nations, the OSCE and the Council of Europe. We will act in the spirit of the motto formulated by President Andrzej Duda in the UN: Peace through law, the power of law above the law of force. [[Applause]] Thirdly, we will find a community of values of the democratic world, which creates a space uniting society around peaceful development and cooperation, regardless of cultural skills and historical experiences. This means that for the Republic of Poland the basis of common interests is above all the values which constitute the heritage of European civilization. These values are primarily Roman law, Greek philosophy and Christian ethics, rationalism, common good and respect for human rights. Defending these values and principles of our civilization will make sense of our diplomacy. [[Applause]] In this context, it should be recalled that Warsaw was and will continue to be the centre of dialogue on human rights and democracy. Here in the capital is the seat of the Community of Democracy, here is the International Conference of the Warsaw Dialogue for Democracy held annually, in our capital we host ODIHR, the Office of Democratic Institutions and Human Rights, which organizes annual human dimension review meetings. The promotion of human rights and democracy was and will remain one of the priorities of Polish foreign policy. Fourthly, we are convinced that international relations, although sometimes seen as a sphere of brutal and destructive competition between countries, also create an area of economic exchange, mutual understanding of societies, including those very distant in terms of tradition and history. The idea of strategic partnership with non-European nations is emerging from this imperative. High Izbo! In 2016, the Council Poland will have to face three major crises that have hit Europe: the security crisis on our continent, the neighbourhood crisis and the crisis of the European project itself. Each of them can have very serious and far-reaching consequences for our country. This dimension of international relations, which is most worrying, is security. For several years we have seen a gradual, dramatic deterioration of the situation in the eastern and southern neighbourhood of the European Union, including directly at the borders of the Republic of Poland. The current international security system is being marginalized. Institutions such as the OSCE or regional organisations set up to release tensions through dialogue, conflict prevention or resolution on the basis of generally accepted principles shall be disregarded and ignored. This creates a policy-friendly ground for strength, which has brought so much misery to European societies in the 20th century. Our great neighbour's policy in the East, which aims to revise the post-war European order, raises the greatest concern. The new Security Strategy of the Russian Federation allows the use of force in the pursuit of its interests. The illustration of this logic is the Russian aggression against Ukraine and the war, which in fact has already been going on in this country for the second year. Russia is moving towards expanding its own sphere of influence and halting the democratic transformation of those Eastern European countries that are seeking closer relations with the West. It is a policy supported by the expansion of Russian military capabilities and hybrid activities, including propaganda. I regret to say that the naivety was the faith that one of my predecessors showed a few years ago, that Russia respects democratic values and principles of international law. Then he asked her to join NATO. Secondly, the deterioration of our security is strongly intertwined with the crisis of the European neighbourhood. Although Russian policy plays a destructive role in Eastern Europe, it is not the only one that is a source of concern. Corruption and the lack of consistent political and political and market reforms also have a negative impact on this region. In the southern neighbourhood, the same or similar phenomena have led to the collapse of countries such as Syria and Libya and have affected the stability of many other countries. The Middle East is in chaos, and the Middle East peace process suffers. To the south of Europe, the greatest problems are armed conflicts, terrorism, the distribution of state structures. The growing problem is the massive wave of labour migration and refugees. Action is needed to adapt Polish foreign policy and security policy to these challenges too. However, I would like to stress that Polish diplomacy, also using the development aid instrument, actively involving itself in solving the problems of Africa and the Middle East, will seek to maintain a proper balance between the involvement of our partners, allies from NATO and the European Union, in preventing and resolving problems in the eastern and southern neighbourhood. The third challenge for Polish diplomacy and Polish authorities in general is to face the crisis of the European project. We are a member of the European Union and our security and prosperity are directly affected by its condition. The Union's crisis is reflected in the Greek debt crisis and the prospect of leaving the UK. Mass violation of the rules at the external borders of the Schengen area threatens to unleash the entire system of freedom of travel within this area. Polish diplomacy will oppose the internal diversity of the Union, the idea of mini-Schengen or discrimination against Polish citizens living in EU countries. We will also oppose any solutions that would affect the interest of economic security of Poland and Polish companies. We hope that the Dutch Presidency will see these problems. The most important problems I have identified are complex and long-term. They impose an obligation on Polish diplomacy to increase activity so that Poland can eliminate emerging threats. That is why I will repeat what the Prime Minister said by presenting her exposé to the High House in November. The priority of the Polish government in the coming years will be to provide the state and citizens with a broad sense of security - understood both as classic military security and stability of our borders, and more broadly as economic security. [[Applause]] Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The North Atlantic Alliance remains the basis of Polish, European and transatlantic security. Due to the deteriorating situation in the eastern and southern flank, the role of the Alliance will be to strengthen the deterrent function and the ability to collective, solidarity-based defence against external assault. We hope that, as in the past, NATO will also be able to adapt strategically today in changing security conditions and geopolitical realities. Polish diplomacy does not spare efforts and initiatives to actively influence this process. The involvement of the President in this area is particularly valuable. This was shown by his participation in the successful November meeting of the leaders of the Eastern countries of NATO in Bucharest and his recent visit to the NATO Headquarters in Mons in Brussels. In the coming days, a number of visits by the Prime Minister to the capitals of our most important European partners are planned. The security of our region will be an important element of the Prime Minister's consultation before an important NATO defence meeting in February. Also rich is my international consultation calendar. The military reinforcement of the eastern flank of NATO, as advocated by Poland and other countries in our region, should remove from the calculation stormers of European peace the feeling of disbelief in the cohesion of the North Atlantic Alliance. The achievement of this goal will therefore eliminate the temptation to test NATO cohesion and will be a step towards reducing the risk of conflict. The strengthening of the Alliance should be of a lasting and long-term nature, as allies are a common collective obligation. This principle should be reflected in the upcoming NATO summit in Warsaw in July. [[Applause]] It is in Warsaw that we want the Alliance to confirm with practical steps the credibility of security guarantees, also in relation to the countries of its eastern flank. Our proposals in this area are now subject to alliance agreements. They tend to compensate for the obvious disparities between the so-called. old and new NATO members in terms of the state of defence infrastructure. In our discussions with allies, we stress that we do not demand privileges. We seek a level playing field for all NATO members throughout the Alliance. There is no and there can be no going back to the grey zones or the security vacuum in our part of the continent. Our allies, as well as our partners outside NATO, are clearly communicating and reminding: the Alliance's military infrastructure was not, is not and will not be a threat to anyone. Similarly, sovereign decisions by countries on future integration into the North Atlantic Alliance are not a threat. NATO's attractiveness and effectiveness also manifests itself in the power to attract possible new members. In this spirit, we are in favour of the Alliance maintaining an open door policy, provided that the expansion process serves to strengthen NATO's defence functions. Our goal is to further develop security cooperation with the United States, both bilateral cooperation and multilateral fora and, above all, NATO. [[Applause]] 2016 is the time of the transition to the implementation of the Polish-American missile shield agreement and the beginning of the construction of the missile shield base in Redzików. It is also another year of increasing the military presence of the United States in Poland, among others. for the purpose of military exercises of Anaconda. We will strive for a more permanent anchoring of elements of the U.S. armed forces in the territory of Poland. Such an opportunity is created, among others. U.S. weapons storage project in our country. In preparation for the NATO Summit in Warsaw, we expect strong support from the United States to strengthen the security of the Eastern Alliance flank. [[Applause]] Solidarity in our Alliance should apply equally to all directions. Once operations in Haiti, Afghanistan or Iraq needed support, today the Eastern NATO flank needs special attention. [[Applause]] Not only are the members of the Alliance, but also NATO partners face challenges and threats to the modern security environment. We want to develop and cultivate cooperation with these countries, strengthen their sense of security. In these categories, we think of partners from the nearest NATO environment, such as Finland, Sweden, Ukraine, Moldova, Georgia, but we also think about Lebanon, Jordan or Iraq. It is no less important to maintain a relationship with politically close, strong partners located a little further, such as Australia, Japan and the Republic of Korea. High Izbo! Recognising the primary role of the Alliance in maintaining transatlantic security, we are in favour of closer and more effective cooperation between NATO and the European Union in solving complex international problems. Poland will engage in efforts to strengthen the common security and defence policy of the European Union. The more defensive elements, the better. From the point of view of the Polish state, it is necessary to develop common rapid response mechanisms within the Union. We are talking about the possibility for the European Union to carry out peace and stability missions and to ensure adequate civilian and military capabilities for this purpose. However, it is important that these solutions do not duplicate, and all the more so that they do not compete with the existing Atlantic Alliance. Regional cooperation with our Nordic, Baltic and Visegrad Group is particularly important in the current security environment. Through this cooperation, we should make both NATO and the European Union more sensitive to the north-eastern dimension of Europe's security. This year, together with our partners, we put at the disposal of the Union a fighting group capable of rapid intervention. It consists of less than 4 thousand. soldiers, including half from Poland. Focusing on the problems in our part of the continent, we also see the importance of the threat from the so-called. The Islamic State. Poland is a member of a global coalition fighting this criminal group. We support allies and partners in the fight against international terrorism. We remind in this context that the defence is also due to religious minorities, especially Christians. [[Applause]] We are also involved in providing humanitarian aid to the victims of the terrorist war. I'll mention a plane with humanitarian aid to Jordan before Christmas. We will continue this process. Next week, the Prime Minister will also make an appropriate contribution to the London Donor Conference for Syria. We intend to respond in a concrete way to requests addressed to us by the United States and France. The Minister for National Defence has already conducted appropriate consultations. Our ambition is to expand our commitment to the safety of the international environment. In this spirit, we are seeking a permanent seat in the United Nations Security Council in the years 2018 and 2019. This status involves responsibility, but also prestige, an opportunity to promote more extensive experience in the area of democratic and systemic transformation. We are working on increasing Poland's participation in UN peacekeeping operations. Poland has been an active participant in peace missions for many years and we want to return to this good tradition. However, possible decisions in this area will be taken with caution and responsibility for the lives of our soldiers and the security of the mission. Ladies and gentlemen! Far-sighted and ambitious Eastern policy is one of the most important dimensions of the foreign policy of the Polish state. The challenges posed by the Eastern direction for our and European security fully justify this point of view. It is in Poland's interest that Eastern European societies, in accordance with the spirit and letter of the Charter of the United Nations and the OSCE, should have the right to have a sovereign choice of way of development, political system and alliances without fear of their own security. Only in this way will Eastern Europe cease to be a source of concern and become a stable region on sound foundations. Our aim therefore remains to support the stabilisation processes of those countries that wish to do so and to establish a proper relationship with partners who do not always and not always share our point of view in every area. One way of implementing such a outlined policy is to make effective use of the available European instrument. In this area, the idea of creating a new instrument for the positive impact of the European Union on its eastern neighbourhood remains crucial. Together with regional partners, we will take into account all the positive aspects of the Eastern Partnership and add new elements that will contribute to increasing regional cooperation. I have already started talking about this with my partners from Sweden, Finland, Lithuania and Romania. We hope that the entry into force of the Association Agreements with Georgia, Moldova and Ukraine and the green light on the part of the European Commission for the visa waiver for the citizens of Georgia and Ukraine will contribute to the stabilisation of the region and will encourage the development of regional cooperation. In line with the spirit of an individualised approach, we will also support Europe's cooperation with Belarus, Armenia and Azerbaijan. High Izbo! In the interest of Poland and Europe there are pragmatic and factual relations with the Russian Federation. This is not an easy task, given the different approaches to international relations, which our neighbours consider not as a sphere of cooperation, but as a sphere of geopolitical competition in which the use of force is entitled. However, we believe, like our Western partners, that even under these conditions it is in our interest to maintain open channels of communication with Moscow. Such an approach is manifested, among others. consultations at the level of the foreign vice-ministers which took place a week ago. However, cooperation with Russia should be built not on the basis of unilateral concessions, but in a spirit of constructive dialogue, respect for bilateral agreements and international law. That is why, in relations with the Russian Federation, we aim to balance relations and also to take into account our interests and expectations. Mutual trust, so needed in relations between countries, is built up through concrete gestures. From a Polish point of view such gestures can be: reliable cooperation in explaining the causes of the Smoleńsk catastrophe, returning the wreckage of the presidential aircraft and declassifying to the end the archives concerning the crimes committed by Stalin on Polish officers. [[Applause]] The bilateral agreement on these matters would be a positive step and would prevent the need to seek international solutions. For Russia, I will repeat the words of President Andrzej Duda: Poland has no eternal enemies. Despite the difficult history, we managed to build friendship relations with Germany. In Poland many believe and hope that a similar process is possible in relations with Russia. We are therefore ready to resume contact with Moscow in substance, which would lead to the resolution of some specific issues. We have shown our readiness by recently sending a diplomatic mission at the working level. Experimental meetings, e.g. The civil dialogue forum could also improve the mutual atmosphere. Polish diplomacy will participate in the creation of a joint and consistent policy of the European Union and the North Atlantic Alliance towards Russia. Our consistent position should take into account the Russian behaviour towards both the Union and NATO as well as the individual Member States and our strategic partners. We do not oppose the convening of the NATO-Russia Council, provided that one of its topics is the Crimean issue and the war in the east of Ukraine. [[Applause]] High Izbo! It is in Poland's interest to promote the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine. The democratic, politically and economically stable Ukrainian state is an important element of European order and security built after the transformations of the years 1989 and 1991. In the last two years, the independence of our eastern neighbor, as never before in the last quarter of a century, has been severely tested. The scale of pressure, pressure, attempts to destabilize is also consistent with the scale of freedom and democratic aspirations of the Ukrainian people. Pro-European reforms, for which the Ukrainian people voted for in Euro-Maidan, need support for the Western world and the active involvement of Poland. This commitment was declared by President Andrzej Duda during his first official visit to Ukraine in December 2015. Mr Antoni Macierewicz also paid a visit to Kiev in December. We will help Ukraine, but at the same time we will require effective use of this assistance. We support our Ukrainian partners in the most important areas of modern state organization, such as the creation of a system of local self-governments, deregulation, the fight against corruption, the construction of efficient state administration, but also the settlement of difficult and painful historical issues. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs advises and assists in the preparation of draft legal acts, as well as the training of officials. We provide assistance to those who have forced their war efforts to leave their former homes. In 2016, we plan to continue the implementation of humanitarian and development projects for victims of the war in the east of Ukraine. Poland has wide open the door to hundreds of thousands of Ukrainian citizens who, for material reasons or because of lack of security, want or must seek their place outside their homeland. We will seek consistent implementation of the EU-Ukraine Association Agreement and the Deep Free Trade Agreement. Closer economic cooperation and competition between Ukrainian companies and European companies on the same basis will be the best incentive to implement reforms that permanently modernise the Ukrainian economy. They will also be a realistic response to attempts to destabilize the situation in this country. An additional instrument for building our solidarity with Ukraine will be the introduction of visa-free travel to the European Union for the citizens of the country. In support of Ukrainian reforms, we also work with non-European countries, including the United States, Canada, Japan, Australia and New Zealand. High Izbo! We look with hope at the revival of the European Union-Belarus relationship. Polish diplomacy does not intend to interfere with any country's policy. However, we expect, especially from our neighbours, only compliance with the standards set by law and international organisations. The release of political prisoners by the Belarusian authorities is a step in the right direction - respect for international standards. However, if we want to go further this way, we will need further joint action. We are counting on the activation of cooperation in the field of infrastructure, including improving the capacity of border crossing points and simplifying passenger traffic rules, in particular through the implementation of the Small Border Traffic Agreement. At the same time, we are aware that we will not avoid difficult issues in the dialogue with Minsk. The problems of the Polish minority in Belarus will remain high on our agenda. I hope to discuss these matters soon in Minsk. We do not lose hope of success in the reform process in Moldova. An important area of economic and political cooperation is for the Polish state of the South Caucasus, whose diversity requires a well balanced activity from us. Georgia is consistently taking further steps towards closer relations with the European Union and NATO. We are definitely helping Tbilisi in this regard. We maintain our interest in launching the Tbilisian Conference launched in April 2015, which is based on the model of the Utrecht and Kopi Conference, with the aim of transferring experiences for the European integration of Georgia with the European Union on the basis of an association agreement. We will also work on further development of dialogue with Armenia and Azerbaijan. High Seym! The debate on the future of the European Union - the European Union in shocks - is of fundamental importance today, where integration projects, such as the single currency, excessive regulation and economic governance are not always relevant. This is where the causes of the Greek crisis must be sought and the idea of increasing integration by the United Kingdom is questioned. In both cases, unity and coherence of the Union have been put into question. Poland is a beneficiary of European unity. The cracks that have appeared on the structure successfully built for decades are undesirable and dangerous. We want to create a Union of free nations, equal states, jointly and economically competitive, with authority in the world. [[Applause]] However, we believe that the EU does not have a two-speed path to this end, i.e. the strengthening of economic and political cooperation by the countries of the euro area. An alternative to the efficient and respectful subjectivity of all the Member States of the European Union is the system of concerts of powers with which Poland has historically bad experiences. At the same time, we see and point out what is flawed in the European project. It is difficult for us to accept the departure of the Union from the Treaty rules in search of ad hoc results, to delegate decision-making and enforcement powers in various policies to informal bodies, to decisions taken without consulting other partners. We see attempts to shift some of the effects of these decisions to countries that did not participate in the process of drawing them up, and which are then faced with facts made. The lack of respect for equality and the subjectivity of non-powerful Member States is a wrong way - it weakens the will of European nations to continue the process of integration and undermines its achievements so far. It is in the interest of the Republic of Poland that the European Union is coherent. However, this cohesion must be supported by the citizens of the Member States. A practice based on the principle: more Europe, less democratic control of its activities, leads to erosion rather than strengthening the integration process. [[Applause]] In our reasonable concern for his success, we must urge our EU partners to see the danger behind it. The echo of the dispute over the future shape of the Union is the criticism of changes in Poland by some European politicians. In fact, the dispute is not so much about the content of this or another law adopted by the Polish Parliament, but rather about the extent of interference by the European institutions in the internal affairs of the Member States. [[Applause]] In other words, it is the extent of sovereignty of the Republic of Poland and other Member States. In this case Poland's right state is unambiguous - it is in Poland's interest to have a lasting and strong sovereignty, harmoniously entering into the Treaty-based European construction. It is worth to understand the essence of this dispute in Poland. The European Union should return to its roots, to four fundamental freedoms: freedom of movement for people, services, goods and capital. Supporters of close integration of the euro area want coordination of economic governance and de facto political union. Unfortunately, there is no fair and democratic way of identifying reliable authorities for such a political union today. However, we still have much to do in implementing these very fundamental principles of the common market. After all, we are far from the common market for services, the principle of freedom of movement of goods is difficult to implement with regard to energy raw materials, the question marks appear with regard to the freedom of movement of persons. It may sometimes be felt that the idea of political union, referred to as the English term ever closer union, is treated as a way of escaping forward, as if they wanted to hide the mistakes made in connection with the common currency and recently also with the migration crisis. The principle of subsidiarity is the victim of such an attitude. This is how some European politicians want to impose mandatory amounts of migrants on Member States and even intend to set up a European border guard, acting independently of their will. Our aim is to restore in European policy the right place the principle of subsidiarity, which is the best guarantee of balance between the prerogatives of the EU institutions, often suffering from a clear democratic deficit, and the competences of the Member States whose governments draw their power without exception directly from their citizens' electoral decisions. [[Applause]] Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Regional cooperation is an integral part of Polish European policy. We have high hopes for her, but we also see the problems we will face. Central Europe has fallen victim to the migration crisis. Rational and appropriate actions from today's perspective were initially criticized by many European politicians before they were considered justified. The idea of closer European integration, i.e. the so-called. Small Schengen is addressed primarily to the countries of the old Europe. Our region is not considered. We will protest against such solutions. The current government will run a regional policy emerging from the special position of Poland in Europe. Our country connects large European areas - a widely understood region of the Baltic Sea and Central Europe with the Balkan countries, to the Adriatic Sea. Not only will we be present in different formats of cooperation within different regions, but we will also strive to ensure that through our country north and south Europe is closer to each other in order to create a new regional identity within the European Union. In the political sphere, this is reflected in the summit of nine Central European leaders organised in Bucharest on the initiative of Poland and Romania, our important regional ally. In the economic and communication sphere, we will endeavour to ensure that Via Carpatia becomes the buckle connecting the various parts of Europe in the area of infrastructure development. We will also pursue, promote further infrastructure initiatives in the countries connected by the Carpathian massif. The Visegrad Group, built as a model and benefiting from the Benelux experience, is a proven element of European architecture and a format of joint representation of the interests of the region of Central and Eastern Europe. This year's anniversary, the quarter-century of the group's existence, makes us aware of the scale of our region's success. Poland will take over the annual presidency from mid 2016 onwards. Within this framework, we will seek to make Europe's agenda, defence, energy security, cohesion policy and infrastructure more effective and cooperative. We will be looking for synergies with the efforts of the Slovak Presidency in the Council of the European Union, e.g. on the review of Union budgetary issues, the development of the digital market, the Energy Union, the migration crisis or the situation in Ukraine. Cooperation with Visegrad partners will also be developed in the bilateral arrangement, among others. through the organisation of a number of intergovernmental consultations with the Czech Republic and Slovakia. Close cooperation with the third important partner of Visegrad, Hungary, will find expression, among others. in a joint celebration of the 60th anniversary of the events of 1956 - in June in Poznań and October in Budapest. Thanks to the decision of our parliaments, we will also celebrate the year of solidarity in relation to the events of those days. With equal energy, we will engage in cooperation with our neighbours in the north, especially in the area of security policy, the European agenda, as well as in extensive sectoral cooperation. We are also working together using multilateral channels, which is supported by the current Polish Presidency of the Baltic Sea Council. Poland wants to be a responsible partner, which combines, unites around common values and ideas. That is why we value dialogue in the format of Visegrad Group, Nordic and Baltic States. Poland is currently chaired by the Baltic Sea Council of States. The Forum increasingly serves as a platform for exchange of experience between countries with varying potential and degree of economic development. We also attach great importance to bilateral cooperation with the countries of the region, as evidenced by, among other things, the fact that we are working together on a bilateral basis. my first visits to Stockholm and Helsinki. High Izbo, we will maintain dialogue and regular consultation at different levels with the most important European partners. First of all, with Great Britain, which brings us not only to understand many important elements of the European agenda, but also to take a similar approach to European security problems. The common perception of European problems has been confirmed, among others. during my recent visit to the United Kingdom. At the same time, I would like to stress with all my power: there will be no agreement by the Polish authorities to violate one of the foundations of the Union, i.e. the right of citizens of the European Union to move freely within the Union, [[Applause]] also because of the importance of labour mobility for a strong single market in global competition. We will not accept solutions which would result in discrimination against our countrymen in any Member State of the European Union. [[Applause]] High Izbo, Poland will continue friendly relations with Germany, our most important neighbour and economic partner. This year it is 25 years since the signing of the Treaty on good neighbourhood and friendly cooperation between Poland and the Federal Republic. This is a good time for a positive reflection on the common interest in Europe, because, contrary to some opinions and stereotypes, we have a great deal in common. But it's also a good opportunity for a little neighborhood repertoire. [[Applause]] Polish-German contacts will be even better if they are accompanied by honesty and openness, not pretended, sometimes superficial co-ordination. [[Applause]] Such a spirit of sincerity and openness to cooperation was accompanied by recent visits by President Andrzej Duda and mine in Berlin, as well as a visit by Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier in Warsaw. We will also maintain a good atmosphere during the next visit of Prime Minister Beata Szydło in Berlin. The 25th anniversary of the Weimar Triangle was also celebrated this year and will be the basis for summing up the cooperation with France and Germany so far and setting new directions. Paris will continue to remain an important reference point for us in European and political and military matters. Italy, Spain and the Netherlands, which started the Presidency of the Council of the European Union in January, will be among the most important European partners of the Republic of Poland. High Izbo, I just mentioned the immigration crisis and its European dimension. However, the reasons for this should not be sought in Europe. Polish foreign policy does not ignore the problems of the South. We view the region of Africa and the Middle East as an area with both opportunities and serious challenges. Political instability, regional conflicts, terrorism, uncontrolled migration, the activities of large organised criminal groups - these are just a few of the main phenomena, the problems of this region. Because of their scale and nature, they pose a direct challenge to European security, thereby involving the European Union's forces and resources. The migration and refugee crisis is one of the most serious challenges for Poland and Europe. It should be assumed that further weakening of the state structures and poverty of the societies there will generate further migratory waves to Europe. These issues will involve Poland both globally, within the UN, the Union and NATO as well as bilaterally. In order to combat the negative effects of the current crisis, the European Union must first and foremost regain control of the movement of people arriving in Europe. The effective protection of the Union's external borders is a prerequisite for reducing migratory pressures. This will allow you to exit the permanent crisis response mode. We will therefore examine the European Commission's proposals for the management of the external borders of the Union while respecting the principle of respect for the competences of the Member States. We will also stress that improving border protection can also be achieved by fully implementing and improving the existing cooperation mechanisms of national border services. Not only does Poland play an important role in the protection of the Union's external borders due to its geopolitical position. In addition to the obvious tasks carried out on its own territory, more than 100 border guards served in other countries of the European Union. It will be no different this year. Polish bordermen are also working in Slovenia and Greece. In order to effectively combat migratory pressures, well-targeted cooperation with third countries is also needed, among others. Turkey. A package of actions agreed at the end of November. between the Union and Ankara offers opportunities to temporarily halt the wave of refugees. Poland will contribute financially to the implementation of this agreement. However, strong action is also needed in other sensitive areas of the southern neighbourhood. The measures and decisions taken so far to relocate refugees within the Union have not produced the expected results. They were merely a response to the increasing influx of refugees into Europe without affecting the causes of the phenomenon outside the Union. Poland has consistently implemented migration policy. As I have already mentioned, since the outbreak of the conflict in Ukraine, our country has received more and more citizens from this country. There was a double increase between 2014 and 2015. As regards the relocation of refugees, we do not shirk the commitments made by the previous government, but we will consistently maintain the fundamental principles of security. The necessary condition for receiving refugees in Poland will be full verification of the identity of the persons concerned, as well as maintaining the principle of full voluntary choice of Poland as the destination country. Ladies and gentlemen! In a modern international environment, the importance of an economic factor is growing as an element influencing relations between countries. It has a strong impact on the assessment of safety conditions and on how the national interest is perceived. Today Poland is strongly linked to the European market, which accounts for more than 60% of our foreign turnover. On the one hand, it is pleased that Polish entrepreneurs are doing great on one of the most difficult markets in the world, on the other, that we are so strongly dependent on the economy of one economic area. The current government will therefore consistently support the development of economic cooperation with partners outside Europe. It will also support entrepreneurs operating outside our country. It is estimated that in 2016 thanks to their hard work and talents, the growth of Polish exports can be up to 10%. Together with the Ministry of Development, the Ministry of Agriculture and other central offices, we will improve the instruments of economic diplomacy. The implemented business satisfaction research system will help us to identify the needs and preferences of Polish business. The promotion of technological cooperation will be an important feature of the activities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Polish economy needs partners to optimally involve one of the most valuable capital - intellectual capital. Building a knowledge-based economy requires the support of Polish companies and research and science institutions in relations with countries that have achieved spectacular successes in commercialization of highly advanced technologies. We will continue training to increase the participation of Polish companies in tenders and projects of international organisations. We note with satisfaction that more and more companies participate in such trainings and workshops. Our intention is to use these organizations to support the foreign expansion of our companies. At the same time, I declare the openness of Polish diplomacy to initiatives of Polish economic environments, if they are interested and focused on strengthening Polish economic presence abroad. I plan meetings myself in the near future, a series of meetings with representatives of the most important Polish business organizations. Several geographical orientations deserve particular emphasis here. In relations with the United States, our partnership increasingly includes the economic dimension, energy cooperation and a promising area of innovation and the development of high technologies. Polish-American economic relations are part of the European Union's economic partnership with the United States, which we intend to develop for the benefit of our parties in the framework of the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership, so-called. TTIP. The current government is taking action to maintain the dynamics of expansion of Polish companies towards Asia. It will be particularly important to strengthen cooperation with the countries with which we have established strategic partnerships - with Japan and Korea. We are successfully developing cooperation in this partner format with the People's Republic of China, also as part of the 16+1 initiative, i.e. between the countries of Środowo-Eastern Europe and China. A recent visit by President Andrzej Duda was an important event for the development of relations with this country. Initiatives of a regional and global nature, such as one belt, one trail, and the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, can bring tangible benefits to Poland through the handling of freight exchanges between Europe and Asia and the inflow of investment. I hope that we will continue to be able to implement our initiatives during my first Asian visit to China and during the Chinese President's visit to Warsaw. Among the important partners on the Asian continent are ASEAN and India. We also want to expand economic cooperation with Asia by restoring diplomatic posts in countries such as Mongolia and the Philippines. We will strengthen economic cooperation with Latin American and Caribbean countries. Democratic change, economic and social stability, the progressive liberalisation of trade with the Union and the strong and well-established presence of Polonia should foster this in this region. Economic cooperation in this direction may also be conducive to the restoration of our facilities in Panama and Ecuador. In the area of international economic cooperation, we will attach particular importance to energy policy. In December 2015, the LNG terminal in Świnoujście started operations... [[Voice from the room: Ah, yet he began.]] ...a project initiated by the Government with the participation of the Law and Justice in 2007... [[Ha, ha, ha, funny.]] ...making Poland more energy independent and opening up new opportunities for cooperation with exporters of this raw material. A breakthrough in the diversification of gas supply lines does not mean that the Republic should attach less importance to energy policy in Europe. The Polish strategy involves two-track actions on investment projects in the country and steps taken at EU level. The Energy Union project from the conceptual phase must move into a realization phase. Following the December European Council conclusions in the coming weeks, we expect an ambitious legislative package in the area of security of gas supply. We're critical of the project. Nord Stream II, [[Applause]] an economically inefficient idea to increase the European Union's dependence on supply from the same direction. This pipeline, reducing the transit importance of Slovakia and Ukraine, would undermine not only the economic interests of our southern ally, but also our eastern partner. In this sense, it is contrary to the international commitments of UN and OSCE Member States not to support aggression in any form. In fact, Nord Stream II is therefore not a business but a political undertaking. Poland will be actively involved in shaping European climate policy. This was already apparent at the recent Paris climate summit. The agreement adopted does not run counter to our national interests, and in particular it does not, in our view, provide a basis for increasing the EU's reduction target by 2030. Poland will seek first accession and ratification by the world's largest economies. Following the COP21 conference, EU-wide negotiations on previously agreed emission reductions by 2030 are becoming a priority. [[Applause]] Economic interests, as well as efforts to gain support for our candidacy to the UN Security Council, require an increase in the activity of Polish diplomacy in Africa and the Middle East. Depending on the developments, we are considering reopening our facilities in Baghdad, Damascus and Tripoli. Using close relations with the Israeli and Palestinian authorities, we will also support international efforts to resume dialogue in the Middle East peace process. The continuing interest of Polish tourists in trips to Egypt and Tunisia puts these countries among our important partners. As an important economic partner, Algeria maintains its position. We deserve greater interest in the politically stable and influential countries around Morocco and Jordan, countries with privileged status in relations with the Union and offering concrete benefits for Polish companies. Poland will also remain an important partner for the Gulf countries. In 2016 we will take steps to obtain serious investments for Poland from the countries of the region. The main tasks are to deepen cooperation with Saudi Arabia and Qatar, countries of importance for diversification of energy supplies to Poland. We see great potential in the development of relations with Iran, against which the European Union has recently abolished economic sanctions. A special place on the map of Polish interests in the Middle East is preserved by the United Arab Emirates, our most important contractor in the Arab world. We are going to continue and develop the program "Go Africa." We will strive to increase the Polish economic presence on the African continent. This should be facilitated by the restoration of the network of Polish diplomatic offices in Africa. First, embassies should be launched in Senegal and Tanzania, and perhaps in the near future in Zambia. In 2016, relations with four priority countries for Polish development cooperation will be strengthened, namely Kenya, Tanzania, Ethiopia and Senegal. South Africa will remain an important partner in Africa. High Seym! Today, as it is estimated, even 20 million of our compatriots or people with Polish roots live outside Poland. Of course, we do not want more hundreds of thousands of Poles to leave Poland in search of their life chances, as it has been in the last few years. We want them to have the right conditions to live here. I recently appealed to the Polish community in Edinburgh to return to the country. [[Voice from the room: What do you think?]] At the same time, in the presence of such a large Polish community outside the country we see an opportunity to actively promote Polish interests. We want Poles living outside the borders to be spokespersons of interests of the Republic to meet the challenges we face today. [[Applause]] We expect that, through close cooperation with Polish diplomatic and consular offices, our compatriots will be an important ally of the government in promoting the Polish state, Polish culture and national memory, Polish historical narrative. Polish institutes abroad will actively support Polonia in these activities. I appeal to Poland: respond, please, when the good name of Poland is slandered, when our history is misconstrued or even lied, when it is written about Polish extermination camps, and it is silent about thousands of Poles of the Righteous among the Nations of the World. [[Applause]] Please be ambassadors of Poland and Polishness. I particularly appeal to Poland in allies to support Polish efforts to improve our level of security. Polish policy will be implemented not only for Polonia, but mainly with the participation of Polonia. We will develop a network of Polish consultative councils operating at Polish institutions abroad, we will support Polish organizations, but above all we will support Polish media and education, which are carriers of Polish culture and national tradition. This year we intend to support the activities of the Ministry of National Education, so that more teachers are addressed to Polish communities in the East. We intend to make important changes to the Polish Charter. We want to make it much easier for people who claim to belong to the Polish people and who have Polish roots to settle in Poland, integrate with the country of ancestors and obtain Polish citizenship. [[Applause]] We intend to prepare a new act on repatriation, which not on paper, but in a real way will enable Poland to fulfil its obligations towards those whose homeland was taken by force. [[Applause]] Our fellow countrymen in the East, especially in Lithuania, Belarus, can count on our special support in Kazakhstan. We will ask for the rights of Poles wherever they are not properly respected, using, if necessary, multilateral forums. We want Polonia and Poles in neighbouring countries and everywhere where there are large national communities to gain all the rights that result from bilateral agreements and European standards. This includes: increasing the availability of Polish language teaching, especially by children of school age. Poles abroad, once again, must be treated like all other citizens of the European Union. [[Applause]] Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, A special mission for Poland and Poles is carried out by the consular service under my command. For years, it has carried out rapid and effective evacuations of our citizens from many distant countries. Ministry of Foreign Affairs also supported the Ministry of National Defence and Internal Affairs. Due to the war activities in the east of Ukraine threatening the lives of the residents of Donbas, residents of Polish origin last year the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with the support of the MON and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs organized a group of 178 people to bring to Poland. In November 2015, another 180 people from Mariupola were brought to Poland. The last 7 people are expected to arrive in the coming days. The successful release of kidnapped Poles in several places around the world was also a success. These examples confirm the effectiveness of the consular service and strengthen citizens' confidence in the state. Action in the area of visa policy was a significant success for the consular service. In 2015, Polish consular offices issued a record number of over 1.5 million visas, of which over 900 thousand. It's in Ukraine, and it's in 400,000. Belarus. Responding to the growing interest in Poland, we will take care of the correctness of the process of applying for Polish visas. An effective visa policy is an important tool to support the development of economic and trade, cultural and social contacts in our immediate neighbourhood. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In 2016 Poland will host major international events with significant promotional potential. I already mentioned the NATO summit in Warsaw. An important task of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will also be the promotion of Poland related to World Youth Day organized in Krakow. We will show Poland as an important, inspiring and significant country in the history of Christianity and Europe. Let the involvement of the Polish state in this event be part of what could be termed diplomacy of values, defence and promotion of the values of Latin civilization, which brings together the citizens of our continent. [[Applause]] We also remember that this year Wrocław is the European Capital of Culture. This is another opportunity to remind the Polish contribution to the development of Europe, to its heritage. I will also strive that close to my heart Łódź also wins the right to organize the so-called. a small Expo exhibition in the near future. [[Applause]] In 2016 we will strengthen Polish historical diplomacy. We will effectively promote the history of our country, nation and state in the perspective of this year's 1050th anniversary of Poland's baptism as well as the forthcoming 100th anniversary of regaining independence. Reformed Polish institutes will play an important role in this process. An equally important priority is to strengthen the fight against negative stereotypes and slandering Poland. An example of the actions of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in this field will be promotional and media support for the upcoming opening of the Museum of Poles Saving Jews. The Ulm families in Markowa near Rzeszow. [[Applause]] We will inform the foreign public more effectively about the most important Polish issues. Currently we are dealing with attacks on the image of Poland and the government of the Republic of Poland, with misinformation of foreign readers and attempts to create in them a belief that democracy is threatened in Poland. Therefore, for the sake of our country's good name, we will be conducting active media diplomacy, which was a good example of which the recent publication of my article "What Europe does Poland want in 26 most important opinion-making European journals" was a good example. This will also be served, among others. Poland information portal. en. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs intends to develop a mechanism to support the local and civil dimension of Polish foreign policy. Thanks to it, cooperation between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and regions is improving, and this in turn brings the priorities of Polish foreign policy closer to local communities, contributing to the development of civil society. We will continue to provide citizens with direct access to information on foreign affairs and international activities through the network of regional centres of international debate. High Seym! Polish foreign policy regains its subjectivity, which has been missing for the last few years and from which some of our partners have become accustomed. This is where we should look at the sources of polemic opinions about Poland, which have recently come from various European politicians. However, Poland's foreign policy will remain an assertive policy, which does not mean that it will be a conflict policy. Poland does not intend to strengthen relations with any foreign partner. Her policy will be firm, but also open to dialogue. The necessary correction in foreign policy, which this government will carry out, will be carried out for the benefit of Poland, for our region and for Europe. We are facing difficult challenges. In times of dramatic change, uncertainty and instability in international relations, strengthening the position of the Republic requires particular care and effort. To this end, harmonious cooperation between the most important centres of power - the President, Parliament and the Government is essential. There's room for the opposition here, too. [[Thank you.]] The sovereignty of the country is created not only through activities carried out abroad... [[Grace.]] ...it is also forged, and maybe mostly in its own country. I ask the High House to accept government information about the tasks of Polish foreign policy in 2016. Thank you very much. [[Long-term applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u5	Thank you, Minister. I'm ordering a 15-minute recess. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 10 mins 18 hours 10 min 37]] I'm reopening the session. We are considering item 4 of the agenda. The Sejm established in the discussion on this item the distribution of time between clubs, depending on their size, between 117 and 12 minutes, i.e. the mid-term debate. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Małgorzata Gosievska, representative of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u6	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, It is my great honor and honour to present to you the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice regarding the information of the Minister of Foreign Affairs on the tasks of Polish foreign policy in 2016. The Minister's exposé clearly reflects the main directions of political thought and foreign policy of our political formation and in the wider sense of our environment. In many elements it refers to political concepts and political policies of the dead. President Lech Kaczyński. Let me only mention in my speech issues that we think need to be highlighted and a number of specific issues will be raised in the speeches of my fellow Members at the parliamentary club. So let's start with those general issues that occurred in the exposé. Already in the first part of the speech, the Minister stressed that in recent years there have been strong tendencies to undermine the system of international relations developed after the Second World War and after the Cold War. Minister, we agree, but it must also be stated in this context that the breakdown of the Yalta system was the objective of independence and patriotic forces in the country and in emigration. Hence, we consider our main achievement to be the creation of a new set of forces that allowed the Cold War to end. It was the liberation of Poland and the countries of Central and Eastern Europe from the domination of the USSR and the independent existence of former Soviet republics. But this is the fact that has recently been challenged by the Russian authorities. And that is what threatens security and stability in Europe and in the world, where Russia, despite the lack of progress in the economy, social life, science, is again trying to take a leading position, which is to come back from the strength of the cannons, not from the strength of the country's development. We want the emergence of different visions of the European project, which the Minister has told us about, and which may be a reaction to the destructive actions of neoimperial forces of revenge, to have no chance of further development and division in Europe, after all, in a Europe united by common values. And what are these values? Let's call it free elections, that's a democratic political system, that's human rights and freedoms, that's a free market, that's the principles of European culture, the values of European humanism. On the occasion of his statement that the European system had been undermined, the Minister said that Russia had considered it possible to use force in international relations when diplomatic methods failed, which undermines international law and the principles on which security and cooperation are based in Europe. Here, however, we need to be more specific, recalling that modern Russian doctrine assumes the possibility of using force beyond its borders, wherever its vital interests and the safety of its citizens are threatened. But let us stress: it is, of course, according to this doctrine that Russia itself recognises where such a situation exists. So let's call it something by name. The annexation of Crimea, followed by the provocation and support of the Donbas war, was therefore not after the exhaustion of diplomatic methods, but after the long-term efforts of economic and political blackmail, pressure and intimidation of Ukraine, which led to the emergence of the country's active, patriotic forces in defence of their rights and freedom to choose the path of development of the state and society. Thus, the independent and democratic Ukraine itself, which is decisive in the shape of its constitution, is now the main probie of the intentions of Europe and Russia, because it turns out that despite the passage of time it retains its actuality still and invariably the thesis of Zbigniew Brzezinski, that Russia having a dependent Ukraine is a dangerous empire. On the other hand, Ukraine's freedom means that Russia must abandon its imperial aspirations. Didn't Professor Brzeziński, the US President's advisor, put the heart of the matter in those short words a few decades ago? And do you sleep? President Lech Kaczyński, who spoke already in August 2008 about the threat of neoimperialism, did he not show the threat at that time? But let us also add here another thing, which is extremely important in Russia. And Brzeziński, and Giedroyc, and many, many other prominent, conscious policies of people at the same time considered Russia's departure from imperial tendencies important, or perhaps even a fundamental condition for its own democratisation. Yes, the democratisation of Russia. Only this democratisation can lead to good neighbourly, friendly cooperation with the countries and nations of the former Soviet Union and with Central and Western Europe. However, the current policy of the former superpowers means an attempt to return to the policies of the sphere of influence and take away from the former Soviet republics, and today independent countries, the possibility of reforming their political and economic structures, the fight against all-embracing corruption, which is a major threat to their systemic transformation. The maintenance of this line will, unfortunately, confirm the unrealisticity of the concept of Russia's integration into European and transatlantic structures, as one of its predecessors once thought, as the Minister mentioned. But let us also emphasize, this is a thesis about which the capitals of western Europe have been swarmed for years, and there are also such capitals that still, despite what the naked eye can see in the East, still think so. But I would like to stress that, despite all the above-mentioned comments, we support the Minister's statement on the possibility of cooperation within the NATO-Russia Council, but we absolutely agree and stress this very strongly: after what has happened, there is no time for general cooperation issues. Today, topics should be such as the end of the hybrid war in Ukraine, the return of Crimea to Ukraine, in general the closure of Russia's support for the rebellion in Donbas. And let us add that these are only the most recent topics, that we should not forget about the legal changes in the territory of Georgia, i.e. Abkhazia and South Ossetia. This also applies to other frozen conflicts, especially in Transnistria. However, I do not want the impression that the Law and Justice Club does not support the attempts already made, such as the visit of the Deputy Minister to Moscow, and the attempts announced in the exposé to revive contacts with Russia, are about further diplomatic contacts, especially a possible visit to Moscow of the Polish Civil Dialogue Forum. The Minister called it the maintenance of the contact channels. Okay, let's call it that. Yeah, that's definitely necessary. After all, such contacts are maintained by all democratic countries, including the United States and Great Britain. Why would Poland exclude them completely? I would also like to stress on this occasion that our club, our group, our government is in no way reluctant to the Russians as one or the Russian people. It is simply that this government, like every government of the independent Republic of Poland, should defend and wish to defend above all the interests of Poland and, as far as possible, to support and defend our neighbours, to help them, especially those who are attacked, especially when war crimes are committed in their territory, cruel war crimes. I must mention here the report, which I am the author of, about the Russian war crimes committed in eastern Ukraine in 2014. The evidence collected will soon be filed with the International Criminal Court in The Hague. Thus, it is only because we ourselves have been through this, simply because Poland is not able to forget and will never forget the heritage of the "Solidarity" and the heritage of the famous message to the peoples of Eastern Europe adopted at the first meeting of "Solidarity" in Olivia in Gdansk in September 1981. And this is the case that connects this Sejm, no matter how divided it was in all other possible matters. The Minister has paid great attention to the issue of refugees and the conditions which have led to this dangerous phenomenon, mainly involving the Middle East and northern Africa, which poses a serious threat to both the poorer countries of South Europe and the rich countries of Western and Northern Europe. He also confirmed that the new Polish authorities would respect the commitments made by the previous government in the field of reception and adaptation of refugees, under certain conditions concerning security and control issues. At the same time, we would like to remind you that, in the context of the threats from beyond our eastern border, Poland already has considerable responsibility for the large number of political and economic immigrants in this direction, which should be taken into account by the political elites of Europe. This clearly affects the number of acceptable immigrants from other areas. In this regard, we stress the Minister's position on the voluntary choice of a place for refugees to settle, which is an important democratic demand in the catalogue of recognised European principles. After all, these people fleeing Europe, at least those fleeing war and saving freedom and life, are looking for freedom in Europe. If so, why does the same Europe want to deprive them of their right to freedom to choose a place of refuge? We accept, in line with the position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the need to fight terrorism effectively as a result of the deep crisis of state and socio-economic structures in the Islamic countries. We reaffirm our willingness to cooperate with the countries of this vulnerable region, particularly Turkey, together with our financial participation, as has already been reported by the Law and Justice, in overcoming the humanitarian crisis caused by the war, in order to try to remedy a situation that, if it is not observed, if there is no response, then, without control, brings so much misery to thousands of people. This is the right moment to say how important this region is in world policy, in European politics, and finally that it is a region which should also take on a new, proper meaning in Polish Foreign Minister's policy. Turkey should, in particular, be an important reference point for our policy. Without further developing this issue, it should be noted only that this country - traditionally, historically close to Poland - is becoming increasingly important. However, the particularly active direction of our foreign policy remains unchanged Eastern policy. We support the Minister's position on the need to strengthen the Eastern Partnership. Minister, perhaps even more serious improvements, reform or addition are needed. This project once aroused some hopes in Poland, of course also in Sweden as a co-author of the concept and many times an important and friendly political partner in the East, but especially in six interested countries. Unfortunately, in recent years we have seen something like the dying spirit of this undertaking, and the Eastern Partnership, despite all its shortcomings and imperfections, is, and should be, one of the most important tools of Polish policy and European policy in the East in general. However, I repeat, after the necessary changes. This is particularly important in the context of the crisis in Ukraine, but it is also an important task for Belarus, also for Moldova, where very dangerous processes threaten political destabilisation of the whole country. The internal situation, the attitude of external forces, the situation in the nearest Ukraine - all this creates additional political tension in the region and requires Europe to be more committed to helping a country like Moldova. The authorities of this country declare the European vector for development and sign an association agreement with the European Union, but at the same time have led to a huge corruption crisis, which undermines the credibility of the whole process of European integration. The instruments for controlling its effectiveness should therefore be strengthened in strengthening aid, and on the current situation in Moldova it is sufficient to carefully observe views, statements and, finally, the travel routes of the main actors of the conflict in order to understand this conflict. With regard to Georgia, which is also a signatory of the Association Agreement with the European Union, although the pace of reform has been weakened and the policy towards Russia has been changed, the new team has not deviated from the basic principles of the former pro-European policy. Georgia must be fully assisted in strengthening civil society in order to prevent the development of anti-democratic trends, corruption and disregard for human rights. I cannot fail to mention political prisoners here, the former Prime Minister of Georgia Vano Merabishvili. However, it is impossible to forget, and it cannot be remembered, that Georgia and Georgia are connected to us, Poles, centuries-old associations of cordiality, alliances and friendships, and that Georgians accepted the Polish exiles who hit the carat with their hearts. there on the exile. And as far as this is concerned, it should also be said, I have also witnessed that the city authorities of Tbilisi have taken and signed a decision to name the new street Marshal Józef Piłsudski. Why? The justification was as follows: the street was given as an expression of gratitude to the Georgian people for accepting Georgian officers, refugees to the Polish Army II of the Republic, as so-called. contract officers. The example of Georgia, although we can absolutely not be sure, can be attractive to the other countries of the South Caucasus: Armenia, Azerbaijan, which are, in fact, participating in the Eastern Partnership, but are not approaching Western standards, as Armenia's entry into the Euro-Asian Union under the auspices of Russia makes an unclear further vector for its development, which becomes important in the context of constitutional changes and future parliamentary elections. We support the Minister's position on relations with the European Union and the risks associated with the different visions of the European project, the concepts of small Schengen, etc. We fear that they will not become a pretext for weakening the relationship between the old and the new members of the European Union and closing themselves within the previous groups of European countries that are already in the past of Europe. Developing cooperation within the Visegrad Group with common problems and visions of relations within European structures should not in any way lead to new divisions. This is merely the implementation of a part of our regional policy, which we want to significantly enrich under the new conditions, including the legacy of the concept of close cooperation in the region. It is precisely because of its geographical and geopolitical position in Central Europe and its traditions that Poland is particularly predisposed to play a role at least in supporting the emergence and implementation of such ideas of regional cooperation between the Baltic, Adriatic and Black Sea countries. At least supporting, although really, Minister, Poland today also needs an active policy that uses the former elements of friendship and sympathy, historical relationships, and above all interests, common political interests of countries and nations that feel sometimes threatened and sometimes simply abandoned by the powers of this world. It should also be added that this area of the Ivory Sea is one of the most important geopolitical regions. I would like to stress once again that such a definition of our place in Europe does not mean that relations with Western European countries are being undermined in any way. We therefore attach great importance to bilateral cooperation with these countries. This is particularly true of Britain and Germany - as the Minister said so clearly - but also of France, with which we have a traditional historical relationship and with which we have mourned so recently the victims of terrorist attacks. Despite this extensive exposé, the Prime Minister was probably not able to highlight all the issues enough, but it is no less important for us to have relations with Italy, Spain, the Netherlands, Ireland, the Nordic countries at all with other countries of Western Europe. With each of these countries, we have important levels of economic, cultural cooperation and we want to strengthen our friendship with them, which - the Law and Justice Club is absolutely convinced of - will express in the high activity of our diplomacy, visits to high levels, cooperation and new activity. In this context, it is particularly important to emphasize that - although we are talking so much about Eastern politics - in the West, in the world of Latin civilization, in the world of democracy and European culture there is a place for Poland. This is due to our history, our culture, our attachment to Europe. That is why we believe that we too have the right to comment on the various current solutions within the European Union. We simply believe that, as a European nation, as a member of the European Union, we have no rights less than others have. The last point I want to raise is the issue of development and state of Polish diplomatic and consular activity. The Minister announced serious initiatives concerning Poles abroad and Polonia and legal changes facilitating the return of Poles to their homeland. This is extremely important, unfortunately not noticed until the migration drama broke out in Europe. Yes, it is true, thousands and even tens of thousands of Poles scattered in the East are waiting for a helping hand, which after years, sometimes after several generations, will draw out the independent brightest Republic. Finally, I would also like to raise the issue of the system, scope and efficiency of the foreign structure of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I have no doubt that the Polish diplomatic service, consular service, especially in the East, first, requires revival, support, improvement, and secondly, requires new, young, competent staff - young, well-educated professionals, well-prepared staff for service in the region, people who know the local languages and use them, who use the languages of the nations and countries in which they are to work, and not only, as is often the case now, who still use the Russian language, which is - let us remind you - the language of the agreement loving peace of the peoples of the Soviet Union, and the English language, because there is no universally known language. Let us repeat: it is necessary and absolutely necessary to renew diplomatic and consular personnel of the Republic of Poland in the East. [[Applause]] In this context, I would like to emphasise the need for closer coordination of the activities of Polish embassies and consulates, especially in the East. Consulates should significantly extend their activities beyond the granting of entry visas. There is an urgent need to extend the remit of our consulates - and this once again means competent staff - to take positions for continued political cooperation with the local authorities of the host countries. In these activities support must also come from Polish institutes. Of course, you have to remember. about their separate competences and tasks, but regardless of the differences of tasks, they are still institutions of the Polish state. Of course, the network of Polish institutes in the East should be significantly extended, even to Lviv, and especially to Tbilisi, but in fact there are more important points. If we are talking about a network of Polish diplomatic posts, it is impossible not to go back to closing them in previous years of government. [[Exactly.]] An example already dramatic, or rather grotesque, is the fate of the Polish embassy in Ulan Bator, which after subsequent liquidations we seem to be bringing back to life for the third time. We are happy, but from the very beginning it was known that Mongolia and the whole region will have a growing significance for Poland. If there were doubts in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, one short university expertise was enough. Minister! It can never happen again. The diplomatic posts of the Republic of Poland must never be liquidated again [[Applause]] in the name of mindless or perhaps even foolishly understood savings - because this is usually how it was translated - without an in-depth analysis of today's day and strategy for the future. [[It wasn't enough for a chair of 7,000. It's art.]] Poland must be present and visible in the world, and this is to be served by various diplomatic institutions filled with competent staff. The facilities may be smaller or larger, but without their existence we voluntarily waive the promotion of the Republic and the defence of Polish interests. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The Law and Justice Club welcomes and accepts the exposé thesis of Minister Waszczykowski. Polish foreign policy was again the minister of the great class. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u7	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Grzegorz Schetyn, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, will now speak. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! This is an important day whenever there is an exposé of the foreign minister and when there is a discussion about these most important issues, plans, ideas and concepts. I only regret that we had little time to prepare for this and to treat it as we should, because foreign policy, Polish foreign policy and European foreign policy, this is the subject today very important, which will have an impact, already affects everything that is here today, but also on what surrounds us, on the place of Poland, our position and the future. And what I'm trying to say is that it's an act that I'd say is that it's... I was a little afraid that there would be more of those signals and accents that the Minister used earlier in press interviews when he talked about vegetarians and cyclists... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[The voice from the room: Ooh... get to the point.]] [[Get to the point. Boring, predictable, bad.]] ...but today there was more about the idea and about the continuation. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Are you guys talking about the level? Don't make me laugh, really. [[Applause]] And don't really talk about the level here, because it's disgusting. [[We expect responsible speeches.]] So I would like to say: more about the continuation, more about ideas that show whether they can show the continuity of foreign policy, Polish foreign policy. I think it's optimistic and it's like it's showing, despite all the phraseology, all the accents that you want to create in such a look at abroad, that this is actually positive. All this stuff... I know it is difficult for the Foreign Minister Vaszczykowski to recall and invoke the good tradition and good work of Minister Sikorski, but I find many of these accents here, for which I thank you, on behalf of Minister Sikorski of course. [[Applause]] [[Arrogance to our neighbors.]] I want to say that this is important, and this is a good signal that certain things are going on, but some things aren't, and that's what I'd like to say in a few words. We've divided our club appearances, because there's not much time, but we're going to be very precise about all of these segments. I only generally, if the Prime Minister and the Minister allow me, will say a few such things. This is a question of strong position, Polish credibility. From this I want to start and I want to say this, because all the things you have said, ideas, concepts, ways of implementing, effectiveness in foreign policy, they will always come from the position of Poland - we want all of us, as we sit here in this Chamber, to be strong, to be subjective, to influence Polish politics, and on this here, and on foreign policy. That's credibility and subjectivity, and that's not good. [[After eight years, it really isn't good.]] You know very well how Europe, the European Union, assessed your policy from 2005 to 2007. It was a ruin for Polish foreign policy [[Applause]] And everyone knows that. [[That's what you guys say, uncoverable.]] It's not so bad yet, it's not so bad, but there are dangerous signals that I'm going to want to say a few words about. If you list the Minister for Threats or Challenges that need to be mentioned, there was a great deal about security, it is very important, especially in the context of the NATO summit, the Eastern flank, strengthening it, but on the other hand, development and security. These are the two pillars of foreign policy, these are the two pillars of state policy. There was much less about this development, about how to work with Europe, how to develop this cooperation, how to add, how to add, how to add the next good or even better stages. And I would like to say that these challenges, the economic challenges, migration challenges, the challenges of the economic crisis, are all the issues that are facing us. In order to be able to deal with this well, so that we can describe these things well, so that we can draw good conclusions, make a good diagnosis and have friends and partners in Europe, look for and protect what is best, good, proven allies, partners who will not leave who will support, will help and will always understand the Polish right state. And we have many such friends in Europe, or maybe I should say: we had many... [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Everyone has their own.]] ...because unfortunately here is something that we view as a bad way, unthinkable, that is, some new accents in foreign policy, in relations with the European Union, in searching for or sharing, in looking for those closer and further ones, and not for geographical reasons, but for some political imagination. You name the Minister as a strategic ally of Great Britain, which is in a completely different place today than we are, with completely different problems and otherwise. He looks at the European Union completely. [[Applause]] This is where the preliminary debate on leaving the Union takes place. That's where they talk about benefits, that's where they talk about social assistance for citizens from the Union who are from outside the UK. It's all about us. You have to look for partners there. I understand - respect, I understand - good relationships. I respect that. Besides, we've always talked about this over the last eight years, and we've had a very good relationship in this area. But I would look for friends closer, and more people who have an impact on the policy of the whole of Europe, an effective Europe, a Europe that can listen to the Polish voice. That's what I lacked in this speech. [[Applause]] Because if you're saying... We talked about this in the committee yesterday, I asked, I thought that Minister Waszczykowski would take this subject, in his speech he would emphasize it and show that it is important that, however, he has an idea of how to remove certain concerns that are in Europe, which concern your foreign policy and your government. After all, we hear about this and read it every day. You are not spoiled by Europe. You're giving a lot of reasons for that. But this does not change the fact that we will do everything we can to ensure that it does not affect Poland's position and our credibility. We're not gonna let her take it. [[Applause]] by unhappy speeches or ill-considered gestures. That's why I'm talking about partners. He doesn't have any friends in politics, but there's got to be partners... [[It will be as effective as a complaint to Brussels.]] ...those who will want to help who will understand. And that's why I asked about the Weimar Triangle. You said different things. I understand that it is difficult to admit, especially to the PiS government, to continue with good ideas, to the next stages. Don't admit it, but do what we've been doing for eight years, because it really makes sense and it's good for Poland. [[Applause]] I am talking about various things here, but I want to say very clearly about the Weimar Triangle, about putting this axis on the line Warsaw - Berlin - Paris, about the impact of this team on European policy, about everything that we have built on this alliance, on this partnership, actually on European policy, on Eastern policy. I mean, you're gonna need all of this in a minute. After all, Russia's sanctions are about to end. Who are you gonna talk to about extending Russian sanctions? With friends from the Carpathian countries or Fabius, Steinmeier, with representatives... [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Don't worry. Don't worry.]] ...the most important European countries? Well, think about the effectiveness... [[Voice from the room: We can do this.]] ...Polish politics, about Polish security. [[Applause]] You've talked so much about it. Really, Poland will be safe if it is a strong country in the European Union's system, whose voice will be heard, with which consultations will be held, and not one that will become, will boast about whether it will be proud to build even more special relations with Great Britain, which is wondering whether or not to leave the European Union. [[Applause]] Really, you do realize that. It is similar with other smaller countries that I respect, with which we have always had good relations. We built Visegrad and we have friends there, we work together - geography is ruthless, our history, we have a lot of things in common. But when it comes to Eastern politics, where are you looking for friends when it comes to relations with Russia? Budapest? I understand that this is a continuation. We all saw that you were not invited to the meeting of President Kaczyński with Prime Minister Orbán. The same was true of Prime Minister Szydło. [[It was a party boss meeting.]] But it's something that doesn't build a government position or a prime minister's position or a foreign minister's position. [[Applause]] or the position of Polish foreign policy, really. However, this is a very specific situation. And now we ask: How is this happening, such meetings, such relationships, the signing by the new head of Orlen, your colleague and party activist, a new, longer, 3-year-old, unfavourable to the Polish economy and for Orlen the agreement with Russia, to Eastern politics? I mean, it all matters. Are you really going to refocus this policy? Because if - we are always talking straight - someone turns sideways or backwards to the European Union, he always faces Russia. [[Applause]] And you must be aware of that. If someone believes that he will lead an exclusive, exclusive policy with the east, with Russia, if he thinks he has an idea for it and is a great player who will manage to build something exclusive between Poland and Russia, then I say: It is without any chance, you are without any chance. And Poland will only lose its position on this. You're gonna make it happen. [[Applause]] An effective Eastern European policy is only a policy of the European Union as a whole, [[Applause]] who listens to the Polish voice, which learns from what we say. But to listen to us... [[Yeah, she was listening, especially in the Nord Stream II case.]] After all, you know that, Minister Waszczykowski, you know that because you are talking to our partners in Europe, that they will only listen to us when we are a subject and credible when we are able to talk when we are writing positive scenarios together, not when we are scared to change allies and that we will look for them in the Intermarine region. We're not at first... [[Applause]] We're not in the 1920s, we're 100 years later. Things have really changed. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] After all, you must know this, and so naive are some of the things you read. These are such things that it's even hard to describe that you can invent such things, especially that in the last 8 years in many cases there have been a lot of really done things. I'm happy for you, and that's why I'm talking about it, and I'm going to say it again. I will repeat this - economic diplomacy, Polish entrepreneurs... [[Voice from the Chamber: Russia is a democracy.]] ...in the world, promotion, cooperation between the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, opening up space, opportunities in all countries of the Far East, but also in Iran. It's all a great chance. We've been building this for years, and I'm happy and hot... [[You've opened airspace for Russia.]] 8 years - you should scream again today. You forgot. [[Applause]] 8 years. And it's too short, because you're able to ruin eight years in a few months. [[Applause]] Now what I'm trying to say is that we're gonna support all this stuff. I'm really talking, just like we talked on the committee yesterday, and I'm gonna confirm it. [[Voice from the hall: Who believes you, man?]] All the sensible things you're going to continue, or even new ideas... [[We see how supportive you are.]] ...because nobody is perfect, I do not say this, if there are new ideas, and they are meaningful, good for Poland, we will support. Polish foreign policy - we have worked together for so many years in the bureau of the Committee on Foreign Affairs - it can be... [[Just as they support complaints in Brussels.]] ...should be shared. So all this stuff: back to opening or opening offices, new embassies, or going back to those old... [[Exterminated by your minister.]] I started this trial first because I thought it made sense. The situation is changing, you have to react to the expectations, to support Polish entrepreneurs, to a good presence. What you said about visas. It's a huge success. 1.3 million visas in Ukraine. Who did this? Is that what happened? [[Applause]] This is the eight years, Mrs Paluch, eight years. [[Negligence.]] That's why I say, if all this continues, it makes sense. We will support and help, but to write all these scenarios in a real, natural, best way. Then it will be possible to support, then we will be able to help and we will say: there are things, there are points common to Polish foreign policy. In fact, we have to find these common points today, find them, build them, but we have to do it in an absolutely thoughtful way. [[You have to want to do it.]] You can't scare Europe... [[The voice from the room: you do it yourself.]] ...you cannot accept Poland's credibility. It really is unnecessary, impossible and harmful. I'm asking you to learn from this. Finally Poles in the East, in general Polonia, relations. You've talked a lot about it. I respect that very much. I would just like to say and let this be a good memento for our further cooperation between the opposition and the government, between the Civic Platform and the government, Prime Minister Szydło. As far as all Poles, people of Polish origin and Donbass and Mariupola are concerned, this whole action was invented, carried out and implemented by the government by Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] It's not a personal matter. That's what I was doing, because that was the arrangement, because I was a foreign minister. We did everything from A to Z. [[Voice from the room: For a year.]] And please, I don't want anyone to thank the Prime Minister, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, officials, consular officials who were in a very difficult situation there, because at the beginning of that year there were war activities in Donbasa. We did it. Just say one word. Don't thank me. Tell me that you remember and that you want this cooperation to look like this, because that's what we're going to declare. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u9	Thank you very much. Mr. Piotr Apel now has a voice. Excuse me, the Minister has a voice. You're welcome, Minister. Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u10	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm gonna answer every charge I've ever made against me. I will not refer to those quoted from the Gazeta Wyborcza. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] [[Voice from the room: Weak.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u11	Mr Piotr Appeal, Kukiz Poselski Club15. You're welcome. [[I want you to start a war.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u12	Thank you. Prime Minister! Minister! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I will thank the Minister for the memory of Expo 2022. This is a very important project for Łódź, I hope it will work out, and I want to declare that as a Member, I will be happy to join in the work and preparation and do whatever it takes to implement this project. Everything that the Minister said was very nice: building a polonium base, downloading Poles from the East. On the other hand, there are some flaws in what has been happening so far. I have a few questions for the Minister. When Europe, for whatever reason, was interested in Poland, the Minister of Justice sent, let us not deceive ourselves, a publicist letter to the Vice-President of the European Commission. I wanted to ask you, what was the participation of the Minister or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in this letter? Did the Ministry even know about this letter? Was he consulted? I'm assuming not, because I don't think those letters should go through the Foreign Office. Hence the question: Is it right that our foreign policy be dealt with by the Minister of Justice? Because I don't think that's right, and I'd like the Minister to be very kind about it. Another point, because it did not appear in the exposé, and if so, it is not enough, it is also an important issue, I think, for the minister himself as a Łaczynian, that is, the issue of silk glass. I wanted to ask you what the work looks like, because it is often said that this Łódź unloading zone is to take over Klaipeda and that in Klaipeda is what we wanted to do as Poland, i.e. unloading materials or Chinese products at all. I'd like to ask what it looks like here, because it's extremely important, and if it's given priority at all, it didn't appear in the exposé. On the other hand, a slightly disturbing issue appeared in the exposé. You spoke to the Minister about relations with Russia, and rightly so, and the issue of wreckage has been raised high in these relations. This, of course, is very important. image, symbolically, and in general history, the issue must not be forgotten in relations with Russia - and what is important for thousands of farmers was missing - about exports to Russia. It seems to me that we should first of all ensure that we can sell our agricultural products to Russia in parallel. There is a very large group of people who suffer from Russian sanctions, who also suffer - I think much more than Russia itself - from those sanctions we have applied. Another issue is Ukraine. We must fight for free Ukraine, I think we will all agree here, we must fight for free Ukraine, free from Putin and free from Bandera. There's an agreement about that. On the other hand, it is scandalous - and I would also like the Minister to refer to it - what on Twitter, on Facebook, your advisor was gracious to write on this loan 4 billion for Ukraine. Mr Przemysław Żurawski a.k.a. Grajewski was gracious to write on the question about the return of this possible loan: Odda, will not give - it is worth investing. I would like to say hard, Minister: this is taxpayers' money, this is the money that each of us takes out of our wallet so that you can have it. This is PLN 4 billion, this is much more money than we have for many social programs: for 75+, free drugs. We are now thinking about the budget, whether we can afford to renovate the road, renovate the hospital, and here we invest lightly in Ukraine. Really, please explain to me what this approach to expenditure of Polish diplomacy looks like, because if that is the attitude towards money in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, then it is a little disturbing. And finally, I would just like to remind you of the pre-election promise to reduce the number of refugees, because I understand that nothing is happening, you forgot that promise. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u13	Thank you. Mr Richard Petru, the Modern Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u14	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! It has been a long time since none of the Polish foreign ministers had as sceptical a speech towards the European Union as they do today. Not Euroscoptic, but sceptical towards the European Union as a whole, as a project. And what surprised me most was the declaration that our main partner in Europe is Britain. Let me remind you that there is to be a referendum in the UK, whether the UK wants to leave the European Union or not. There's a big risk that he can leave. And here's the question: are you planning a referendum like this? Because I don't understand what our close cooperation is supposed to be about, mostly with Great Britain. The United Kingdom is needed in the European Union for economic reasons, it has always proposed solutions that were compatible with the idea of freedom, it has proposed economic freedom and we must promote these elements. It is certainly not in our interest, neither in the interests of the Union nor in the United Kingdom, to leave the United Kingdom from the European Union. I don't understand where our new strategy is coming from, and what it's supposed to mean. I also do not fully understand why the Visegrad Group should be our main axis of cooperation. Let me remind you, this is not a group that has the same interests. It is Hungary and Slovakia that work closely with Russia, I understand, that they are economically quite dependent on it, both of which are indeed dependent on it. The question is whether this is our new project for better Poland. Because it will lead to the fact that these friends of ours in difficult economic situations will have to call in a different direction than it would seem appropriate to us. I am also surprised that the proposal is for the European Union to return to the 1950s, i.e. to the idea that it is possible to communicate with one another, to trade together, and that is the end of it. I will remind you that the European Union is also common values, also Christian values, but this is also the principle of three divisions of power, presumption of innocence and compliance with the principles of the rule of law, or constitution. The question is whether Poland is to be outside of this project. In his speech, the Minister did not, in my opinion, refer to three very important elements of geopoliticalism. Firstly, he paid very little attention to the conflict in Syria. After all, the conflict in Syria is a great cause of migration, with which Europe has a problem. It seems to me that there was not enough about what would happen if it happened, whether there was nothing at all about what would happen, if there was an escalation of the conflict in Ukraine, between Russia and Ukraine. I'll remind you that we have a frozen conflict, but we know very well that frozen conflicts are meant to be frozen when someone needs it, to defrost it. And then there's the strategic question: what's the plan, and what are we going to do if, in the black scenario, there are green groups of soldiers in Estonia? I would also like these questions to be answered in this debate. Ladies and gentlemen, what should be the objectives of our foreign policy? First of all, strong Poland in a strong Europe. Our position will be weak if we have a weak position in Europe. Secondly, nothing about us without us. If we are offended by our European partners, it is generally that they decide, including those that concern us, because they concern Europe as a whole, take decisions without us. It is important that we co-decide on the future of the continent, i.e. we propose solutions that are good for Poland and for Europe, and I do not see such proposals. Poland, which is troubled, divided and especially, which is offended, Poland, which is offended will never be strong. And to be honest, the last three months are unfortunately the period of dividing us internally and of resentment for articles in the foreign press, for articles in the press. I would like to remind you that this type of policy did not work very well in 2005 and 2007. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry to say that it has been a long time since there has been such humiliation as inviting the Prime Minister of our government to the rug in Brussels and explaining why in Poland, whether the constitution has been violated or not. This is the result, unfortunately, of a policy that is being practiced in the country... [[No reports, no complaints.]] The reports were carried out by Minister Ziobra in the European Parliament, who suggested that there is no democracy in Poland. [[Applause]] The reports were carried out by Minister Macierewicz and the communications were also carried out by Mr Ryszard Czarnecki. Are you admitting to them? Are you admitting to them? They were the ones reporting on Poland, they were the ones spit in the face of Poland. [[Applause]] There will be no agreement for such a policy. There will be no agreement on a policy that spits on Poland in the European Union. This is a very bad strategy, don't go this way. [[No more snitch politics.]] Hit your chests before throwing stones in the other direction. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal...]] I didn't hear what you said. I'd ask for some of that noise, 'cause I'm used to it. That's even better said. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Why the arrogance? What's with the arrogance?]] Poland should report projects and solutions that are good for Europe, and you do not. President Andrzej Duda said that Poland should not be in the mainstream of European integration. I thought it was some kind of grim joke, but unfortunately today this grim joke is in progress. Such a policy demonstrates the lack of understanding of the world and the situation in which we are in, and is, most importantly, contrary to the Polish state. Polish foreign policy must set long-term objectives. The Minister spoke about the need for permanent anchoring in Europe, but he spoke about Central and Eastern Europe. We need to anchor ourselves permanently in Europe, but we cannot pursue a policy that suggests that democracy is weaker with us. We cannot pursue a policy that questions the principles on which Europe was founded. An effective Union is in our interest. What is an effective Union? Ladies and gentlemen, this is not... This is the Union which, as it decides to impose sanctions against Russia, does so quickly and effectively. The Union, which wants to pursue an effective counter-terrorism policy, does so quickly within 28 countries, or even introduces such an anti-terrorism policy itself, is doing so effectively. The European Union, which says that we must protect the external borders of the Union from the influx of immigrants, is doing so effectively. The most important problem today is refugees from the European Union, Europe and the whole project. Ladies and gentlemen, we must work together to find a solution. It can't be that Poland says: we don't like it. The problem is that if we are only within the Visegrad Group to determine what strategy we have with regard to our attitude towards immigrants, the result will be that mini-Schengen will be created. Let me remind you that the European Union has a problem because many migrants are moving from Turkey to Greece and Greece is unable to protect its borders and says that, therefore, its sovereignty is limited if the common European forces are controlled. That's what Greece says. Now, if we don't build a joint border protection project, it's gonna end up with a mini-Schengen. Ladies and gentlemen, what does mini-Schengen mean? This means that controls are introduced at the Polish-German border. The question to the Prime Minister... There's no Prime Minister. The Minister's office. The Minister's not here. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] [[Voice from the room: He's here.]] [[There's Mr. Terlecki.]] Well, as it is, it is. Minister Szymański, very nice minister. Congratulations on having one. Again. The question is: What will the Prime Minister do to make this border so that this control at the German-Polish border does not exist? What exactly are you going to do? You are against protecting Europe's borders together. But why? Because it's gonna lead to this... They say this: Poland does not want to talk to us, nor does it want to do these common borders, we have to solve the problem of migrants ourselves. What I agree with about the Minister's speech and the speech of Minister Błaszczak earlier is that we need to propose a new asylum policy within the European Union. The old one is obsolete, that is, it is too easy to get asylum. When a thousand people emigrated, 2,000 people, this policy in the Union was good. If it emigrates 1.5 million, it needs to be changed. This should be a Polish proposal at the level of the European Union to change asylum policy, namely it must not encourage the number of foreign migrants, migrants to Europe, because it is too liberal at this point. Only the question of what Poland can do to ensure that such solutions are discussed under the Dutch Presidency. It would be best if they were introduced. The automatic allocation doesn't work in Europe, it doesn't work, it doesn't solve any problem, I agree. And all this shows that this is not the problem, this is not the solution to the immigration crisis. The idea is: either there will be fewer migrants coming, or we will make mini-Schengen and mini-Schengen will be joined by those who will be able to work effectively to protect borders with the most important countries in Europe. We, if we are not in this project, will have controls on the Polish-German border. It will be very bad for Poland, for Polish entrepreneurs and for those who travel, of course. Ladies and gentlemen, I have missed the economic aspect of this speech at all. The only economic thread I've seen is the wrong understanding of what happened in Greece. Greece, ladies and gentlemen, has gone bankrupt because it was giving away money to the right and to the left. Socialists ruled for years, distributed this money and led to such debt that they were unable to pay back. Don't go that way. And that was the cause of their problems, not the fact that they were in euro. You have to read some books and then draw the right conclusions. Ladies and gentlemen, if the country has an irresponsible policy and is giving away money that is not there, if the country is giving away money that is not there, it ends up like Greece. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, there was nothing in this speech about energy policy or very little. Let us remember that this is a European project. Not all elements of this project are in line with our Polish interests. [[Voice from the room: Nord Stream II.]] Poland must propose new solutions in energy policy. Polish energy will be based on coal, but it cannot be pure coal. We need to propose a path to make energy cheap and diversified. These are our national interests: cheap and diversified energy. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister didn't say anything about this. You have no idea what this great game is all about in Europe. Of course, Europe wants to sell us the latest technology, but in order not to buy it by force, we should propose solutions that will make it possible in Poland to supply energy in a cheap, efficient and diversified way. [[Applause]] Politics against Russia. Of course the wreck must be returned, it is important to learn from how the Dutch recovered the wreckage from the Ukrainians. Of course Ukraine probably wanted to give it away, Russia - no, but this is a very important element. On the other hand, in all this policy towards Russia, which should be friendly but unambiguously firm, I again lacked an economic thread. This is our important potential economic partner. See how Germany conducts such policies - they are tough when it comes to politics, diplomacy, and they do business when it comes to defending their interests in Ukraine as well as in Russia. We don't do that. It's time to change that. [[Applause]] I was hoping that anything in this case, in economic matters, would appear in your speech. Unfortunately, it wasn't. United States. Ladies and gentlemen, the alliance with the United States is our strategic challenge. But he, our relations with the United States are a derivative of our strength within the European Union and a derivative of our strength and relations with the Germans. I am a little surprised that at the rally President Jarosław Kaczyński has a very negative attitude towards our neighbour, and the Minister talks about friendship. I'd like to know which policy you're really doing. The one at the rally or the one here, the diplomatic corps? Because I see there are two. Here it was simply said that there should be a friendly policy, and Jarosław Kaczyński and some of you say something completely different. We could use a little more information on this because we're confused. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Read this.]] I just don't know what to read, Member. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: These books and the information you are talking about. Please keep in touch. Listen.]] Member, I do not know what to read, whether I should read Jarosław Kaczyński or Minister Waszczykowski. Jarosław Kaczyński, I understand. [[Applause]] [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Please listen and read.]] [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm listening, and I see you don't know what you're saying. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: But certainly not Polonia.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's start with what we do at home. Polish foreign policy will be strong when Poland will not be conflicted when there will be no risk associated with whether the constitution is respected or not. Hence once again the appeal to the President: he will accept three judges from June - the problem will be solved. We are, of course, waiting for what the Venice Commission will say. I understand the Prime Minister is waiting, too. Ladies and gentlemen, five priorities in three minutes for Polish foreign policy. Firstly, we should combat disintegration trends in Europe as Poland. The strong European Union is a strong Poland and we know that our strength is a consequence of what relationship we will have in the European Union, and especially what relationship we will have with Germany. Those who speak today of the concept of the Intermarriage are in the clouds. They don't know what Realpolitik looks like. [[Applause]] Second... [[Deutschland, Deutschland über alles.]] Oh, please, which Member is he? Raise your hand. [[Voice from the room: Go ahead.]] Which one did you say that now? [[Go ahead.]] But no, don't be shy, be tough. [[Voice from the hall: I said it.]] I'm the one who would ask you to record this. Madam, you see, I do not know which policy is right for you - whether this only friendship with Germany or what the Member has just spit out. [[Voices from the hall: Ooh!]] [[But don't argue with us right now.]] Ladies and gentlemen, these are... Tell me again what you said. [[The next ones will be...]] Tell me again. But don't be shy and be a man. All rise.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u15	But, sir, do not discuss with the Members in the Chamber. You have a speech and finish it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u16	You're right. It doesn't make any sense. Ladies and gentlemen, Poland must be... [[Voice from the room: Who should I argue with?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u17	Your Members, please remain calm. [[There's a debate.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, Atlantic cooperation is very important. But look what you've done so far to ruin it. Unthoughtful and unconsulted statements concerning NATO permanent bases. They need to be dealt with first, then talked to. Falling out of the bid to buy Patriot rockets. Night landing at the counterintelligence center. Then some nuclear-related ideas. I'm asking if it was all established before, whether it was such a splash under the Polish public. Then let's not be surprised that our partners in the United States don't take you seriously. That's what I'm really afraid of. Once again, the US is our strategic partner, but if we are in conflict in the Union, they will not take us seriously. Ladies and gentlemen, Eastern policy. It would be good if, together, as all political parties, we had a consensus on this, because the situation is very sensitive. Once again, we have a frozen conflict, a difficult relationship with Russia. I don't see any reason why we shouldn't set a common front here. I welcome the Minister's positive opinion on the TTIP, which is a free trade agreement, because so far I have heard different opinions from the Law and Justice. Let me remind you that Poland is an export country, we have almost 50% exports to GDP. We need to be prepared for this. It is important that the economy prepare for this, so that we are competitive, but it is also important that Poland is an active participant in this agreement, so that we, Poles, and our entrepreneurs, all of this will be very profitable. Fifthly - here too I agree - we need to be more involved in international organisations. So Poland's candidacy for permanent membership of the UN Security Council 2018, 2019, will be a good opportunity to be firmly established in the world. The question is also whether there is a chance that Poland will be invited to participate periodically as an observer at the G20 summits. Let me remind you that this is within our reach, too. It would be good if this were part of our foreign policy. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Poland cannot be on the outskirts of Europe. Your policy, unfortunately, leads to this. Our strength and economic strength are the depth and strength of our integration in the European Union, our position in the European Union. Poland will be respected only if it is constructive and not offended, and when it is strong and not on its knees. And now he's, unfortunately, on his knees because of you. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u19	Thank you. Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u20	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is good that this debate takes place earlier than usual, and this is the implementation of the application of the club of the Polish People's Party. Although it was due to take place in December, it is at the end of January, but it is good that it takes place earlier, because there is a chance that after these 3 months of bad changes in foreign policy they will be stopped. The Polish People's Party Club has been involved in the debate on foreign policy for 25 years. But this is different from the previous ones because from a country that was an example of such a European leader in change, integration, we have become a nuisance of Europe. How is it possible to make such a bad change in three months? How is it possible that within 3 months the opinion about Poland and articles, not in the Russian press or - as PiS probably would like - in the German, but in the 'Washington Post', in the 'New York Times', they say that Poland is turning away from the West, talking about the weak and bad image of Poland? How is it possible that in three months something that is being built over the years can be destroyed? This is due to a simple reason. This is due to Only because you say something different here in Poland and you say something different in open meetings. You guys still think you're in the campaign. You preach completely different passwords here in Poland than what you say in Europe. Today's speech was also a good example. It was more addressed to the diplomatic corps than to the Poles, and that is the difference, because mostly from this tribune you want to speak only and only with election slogans, which you later do not implement with the consequence you have announced. If we want to create a real foreign policy of Poland based on values, then here consent, because Europe was built on values, the European Union was built on values, you can say, on three hills: on the Greek Acropolis, on the Roman Capitol and on Jerusalem's Golgotha, which gave Christian ethics. And that's what we need to get back to. But Poland must set an example of how it is possible. You are preaching beautiful slogans about the European Union in the European Parliament, although probably not always, because last year you reported fraudulent elections, but now in European salons you are preaching slogans about integration, about subsidiarity. I heard from the Minister today about the principle of subsidiarity in the European Union. Only you do not want to apply this principle here in Poland. You don't want to use it, for example. with regard to local authorities. You are losing this principle and self-government democracy, a subsidiary democracy, putting over it a sovereign democracy, which was invented in Russia, has not even been translated into English. What happened that Poland, the leader of good change, now needs to explain itself in Europe from the changes that are taking place? Sometimes the only answer is that the Germans cannot speak because they have caused World War II, or the reasons for criticism are that one of the European politicians has been decorated by the Polish President. This does not lead to building any position. Today, in Minister Waszczykowski's speech, we heard a great deal about regional policy, regional alliances. And in the first place the Visegrad Group alliance was shown. But are we? In the Visegrad Group, how would we analyse this - with great respect for our partners - do we have common interests today? Do we have a common opinion on energy policy on Ukraine? Do we have a common view on migration and migrants? Isn't it a threat to the Visegrad Group of the Austria - Czech Republic - Slovakia triangle? Doesn't that weaken this group? And in one sentence in today's speech, and only in bilateral relations, the Minister mentions the Weimar Triangle. This is the basic question: Do we want to be - you would like us to be - the leader of the idea of the Intermarine? Dreams that will probably never come true. It is necessary to ask these countries whether they want such a leader, because, as there were reactions, maybe also clueless, some Hungarian politicians, they were glad that at some point Hungary was not the black sheep in the European Union, only Poland became the black sheep in the European Union. [[You're not allowed to say that.]] Your attitude towards politics here in the country and outside shows what you're doing, how foreign delegations are coming. A foreign delegation arrives, there is a meeting, the flag of the European Union is introduced, this delegation leaves, the flag is immediately taken out. Very little in the Minister's speech was about the economy, just 10 minutes. There was a lot of diagnosis, but no prescription, no indication of how to get out of a particular problem. Today Poland is a great force of export, is the position of Polish entrepreneurs. Great Polish brand is Polish food. The Minister did not mention it, about Polish products, which are most appreciated, because if Japan can be proud of new technologies, Germany of its cars, we can certainly be very proud of healthy, good Polish food. But I think the direction of promotion of Polish food was set by the Minister of Agriculture yesterday, falling asleep during the budget debate. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: Aaaa...]] [[Stop it, stop it.]] That's what happens. He went to the hotel also when he negotiated matters of Polish sugar, and it ended badly for Poland. [[Bury and Elewarr.]] The promotion of Polish food may fall into a deep winter dream, but the Polish People's Party will not allow it. [[Oh, Lord, it's a laugh.]] [[Voice from the room: Oh, cool.]] You go on pilgrimages, ladies and gentlemen of the PiS, [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] to the Polish village only 2 months before the elections. [[What are you talking about?]] Then you go to the Polish village, promise farmers how you will take care of their affairs, how you will double the subsidies. [[That's not true.]] And what, Minister, with the payments? [[Applause]] [[About that, please.]] Member, if you would like to discuss... [[Rise in the room, ring the bell]] One of the PIS messengers -- that's for those who listen, because you can't hear those voices -- she said to talk about it. If it is not the issue of export of Polish food for you and foreign affairs, it is not the position of Polish farmers in the European Union, it is not the issue of subsidies in the European Union and doubling, as you promised, I ask whether this is not a matter of foreign policy. Whose business is this? [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Voice from the hall: And praise as it is in Germany.]] You'd like to be proud... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] You'd like to be proud, ladies and gentlemen... [[You woke up yesterday.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, please do not interfere with the Member's speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u22	...from doubling Polish exports of Polish food products - over 20 billion. [[You're the guilty ones.]] Do not be ashamed of good Polish food. [[Voice from the hall: We are very ashamed.]] [[Voice from the room: But you fell from Mars.]] [[Voice from the hall: Where are the bars of gold?]] But it hurts you that we promoted Polish agriculture so well. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Sale of land.]] [[Voice from the room: It's been inhibited.]] Ladies and gentlemen! When we talk about energy policy - there wasn't much about it either - it's also different here You often declare, and then you declare the RES Act that we have carried out, you hold back, you don't want it to come into force from January 1st, you just report it for the next few months. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Voice from the hall: For your governments.]] As far as migration issues are concerned, solutions must be sought. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Switch tractors to gold bars.]] [[Voice from the hall: Do not arrest the farmers.]] We need to look for solutions, sir. You have to look for solutions, and you can't find them. [[Voice from the room: The conversations are over.]] You can't find a solution. It's so popular... We're pretty hard on agriculture right now, and it's exciting for you, but unfortunately, you're not doing anything about it. [[Voice from the room: You were 25 years old.]] Let me remind you of the folk proverb: A wise Pole after harm. You've done a lot of damage over the last three months. [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] PSL calls for your wisdom. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: yours.]] When it comes to migration... [[Peas against the wall.]] Mr Grupinski says: Grochem against the wall. [[This is Polish food.]] Well, it's hard to disagree, but we're gonna fight it. [[Polish peas on the Polish wall.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Migration, because Mr Schetyna complained that there wasn't much time. I'm not gonna give him a minute, 'cause since we've been here... We don't have that time completely anymore, we don't have it at all. [[Then talk to me faster.]] Migration. We need to be clear in the European Union and propose our solution. For humanitarian reasons Let us accept women and children, and men train, arm and send to fight for the freedom of their countries. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] That's what we did, that's what our fathers and grandparents did, on different fronts of war they fought for their country's freedom. This is the ambition of anyone who wants to get back together and want to build their homeland. That's the solution. Not just saying that there is a very difficult situation, that there are problems, that it is not known how to solve this, that integration needs to be done. About Polonia - very well, because in this speech there were elements to be agreed with. Polonia needs to be supported as much as possible and it is also clear that Polish citizens, working in the UK, the Netherlands, are working for these countries, for economic development, and it is not right to agree that they are only receiving benefits because it is not true because when we joined the European Union we were invited to build economic growth in those countries. Let us base Polish foreign policy on European values. Let us base Polish foreign policy on good experiences and continuation, [[♪ The bell ♪]] because what we built not only for 8 years, but actually for 25 years of free Poland, can be destroyed very quickly and later this time may not be able to catch up. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u23	Thank you. Mr Dominik Tarczynski of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u24	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In connection with the information of the Minister of Foreign Affairs on the tasks of Polish foreign policy in 2016, it is necessary to express Parliament's support for the concept of strengthening Poland within the European Union. I am talking about this at the beginning, and I am stressing this at the beginning, because these assumptions that have been presented are fundamental assumptions to which I will refer in a moment. The vision of Poland's role in stabilising the international situation, and especially the crises presented by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, is in an appropriate way consistent with the implementation of the national interest, because that is what we should talk about, also when we talk about foreign policy, about national interests. It should be pointed out that the Minister, in fact, presented principles of international policy based on values particularly important for Poles. Policy based on fundamental values always has a positive impact, even when faced with initial criticism, as illustrated by the unjustified criticism of Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán in the fight against the migration crisis. Everyone was attacking and criticizing, and now most countries are really trying to apply the same solutions that were applied in Hungary. Please note that in recent days a dozen planes with immigrants have left for Germany. They're home. These three values, which are visible sources of the vision of foreign policy presented by the Minister, are solidarity, freedom and law. Through the prism of these three values, solving international problems becomes a feasible task. There's no way we can say we can't, that we can't, that they're gonna forbid something. It all seems feasible and feasible. Without these values, problems only increase. The strengthening of Poland's position in the European Union should consist in reminding the importance and role of values and principles. Poland should pursue a policy of real, not of apparent and facade values. Such a concept arises from the Minister's speech and from the diplomatic activities of the Foreign Affairs Office of the current government and of the President. A road like this, as we know from history, is obviously a percentage. All the crises that the European Union is currently facing are, in fact, a consequence of failure to comply with this foundation, in particular the law, including international law, and solidarity. An obvious example of this is the problems in the East - Russia, Ukraine, Belarus. For the interests of several countries, respect for fundamental values and principles or, as it is termed, respect for the rights of civilized nations. The role of Poland in the European Union is to recall the consequences of this attitude. Poland, as a country particularly affected by wars and totalitarianisms, while at the same time Poles' special love of freedom, should be an ambassador for Eastern policy of the European Union. [[Applause]] Apart from the achievements of the predecessors in this area, where we have several ambassadors in the European Union for several hundred, this skillful reminder of history should lead to a wider involvement of Poland in Eastern policy. This is what Poland's solidarity towards the European Union should rely on. Poland is a country better understanding the specificities of our eastern neighbours and we are the only country of the Union bordering Russia, Ukraine and Belarus at the same time. This gives us, by far, a different mandate within the Community of European Union States to give tone to the cooperation of the Union with our neighbours. Poland, building its position in the European Union, must not forget the idea of solidarity. Our nation has a special duty to protect this value, especially in international relations. Within the Union, it is necessary for Poland to support the Baltic and Central European states, within the Union it is necessary for Poland to support countries which understand and experience what Poland has experienced. However, fully accepting the freedom of states and their autonomy, which unfortunately within the European Union is being undermined in the interests of the countries of the old Union, so from the position of large countries and the position of force, in response Poland should build a community of smaller countries. The policy of the forces of the old Union states is, of course, contrary to European values. Similarly, the attempt to impose solutions on internal security is contrary to the Treaties on the European Union and on the functioning of the Union. Poland, pointing to the equal status of countries and peoples in Europe, should build solidarity in the framework of the Visegrad Group's cooperation, cooperation with the Baltic States and other countries of the Union which appear to be discriminated against due to the size, geographical location or moment of entry into the European Union. Poland should show solidarity and support them as a medium-sized country in the European Union. However, this support should not consist in imposing only a good vision, namely solidarity and mutual understanding. As a medium-sized country, Poland will clearly strengthen the voice of these countries and our interests are in fact convergent. At the same time, within the Union, we must set an example of what it means to be a community and solidarity, through the partnership of treating countries as sovereign entities. This will allow for the subjectivity of smaller countries, while at the same time building our subjectivity within the European Union as a whole. This was perfectly understood by Prof. Lech Kaczyński, who, even to small countries, complied with principles such as sovereignty, independence or subjectivity, regardless of the economic proposals of the powers. Following the fundamental principles has enabled President Kaczyński to be the leader of Central European countries during the Georgian crisis. The same attitude - respect for values and principles - will allow Poland today to take the role of the leader of Central European countries or, more broadly, the Intermarine. These visions are implemented consistently by the President, the Foreign Minister and the Government, as you can see in the timetable and subject matter of the diplomatic meetings mentioned by the Minister. At the same time, it must not be allowed to continue to club the policies of the European Union countries where factions are formed that pursue their interests. The path to building Poland's position in the European Union is, of course, also responsible policy towards the largest countries of the Union, but at the same time emphasising the importance of values and principles. As part of the decision-making process in the European Union, it also appears necessary to strengthen the cooperation of the two medium-sized countries in the European Union, i.e. Poland and Spain. Therefore, it is necessary to treat this partner seriously, even through a responsible staff policy and the appointment of a professional ambassador who understands the community of our interests. [[Applause]] The way the funds are shared and the distribution of votes is clearly building such a community between our medium-sized countries. The HR policy of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in this respect points to the Minister's recognition of the importance of relations with Spain within the European Union's decision-making structure. The tasks presented by the Minister and the vision of their implementation indicate that the Polish national interest respects the principles in international relations and allows us to adopt a role suitable for Poland within the European Union. It is obvious that Poland's solidarity towards other countries will give Poland a mandate to require solidarity from the largest countries of the Union. This is particularly the case for energy policy, so-called "energy policy." The Energy Union, the joint purchase of gas, but also the loud raising of the Nord Stream II issue, as we have heard so much about today. Moreover, Poland should activate the patriotic activity of Polonia, and this was also mentioned. Polish citizens who live in other EU countries are also local voters, in local governments, where they live abroad, have rights, as well as in the elections to the European Parliament. This gives them a mandate to influence the authorities and is an excellent means to realise the interests of Poland in the Union. They're ambassadors, as the Minister called for. Activation of patriotically oriented Polonia should be one of the tasks of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And that's what the minister said. They'll be our ambassadors, they're here. This is very important, but we need to support them. Poland's position in the European Union also builds membership and activity in the OSCE, the Council of Europe and NATO. Of course, due to international dynamics and the summit in Warsaw, cooperation with NATO is of particular importance. Strengthening cooperation with the United States under the North Atlantic Pact strengthens our position within the Union. The implementation of cooperation within the Council of Europe, as well as the OSCE, promotes security and stability. This concerns in particular the deepening of cooperation within the Visegrad Group and the strengthening of cooperation with the Baltic States, as well as the creation of ground for cooperation between the States of the Intermarine. It is also important to emphasise the importance of the force of the law, not of the law of force. We heard that today, too. This is a very important statement and a request that has been made by the President. This applies, of course, to international law, but also to the immigration crisis. For years Poland has been struggling with the problem of influx of people who are hurt, seeking help, for example from Ukraine. We also had war experiences in Chechnya. Nobody is talking about this now, what involvement was Poland in the solution and help. This is due to the respect of refugee law and the reliable protection of the external borders of the European Union. In Poland, anyone who can prove that he is a refugee has an identity and can demonstrate that he will not pose a threat to the host country, as well as will voluntarily move to Poland, can apply for refugee status in Poland. Government policies which respect previous commitments within the limits of our capabilities rightly emphasise our contribution to the protection of refugees. However, the importance of compliance should be stressed, which prevents problems. As a result of irresponsible immigration policy, Poland faces the dangers associated with the wave of refugees from not only eastern directions. Among the tasks of the Polish border services, Customs Service and Border Guard, is the protection of over a thousand kilometers of the external border of the European Union. In Poland there is the largest land border crossing of the European Union - in Dorohusk. Therefore, it is important to highlight our huge contribution to ensuring the security of the borders of the European Union, which Poland is implementing, which should be taken into account in solving immigration problems and appreciated by our partners. Poland has a permanent, far beyond normal solidarity contribution to the protection of the Union's borders. This also applies to the problem of labour immigration, but also to the fight against smuggling of persons, goods, weapons and drugs. The crisis in Ukraine and the immigration crisis require Poland to strengthen its services and combat new threats. The indication of these problems will show the above-average involvement of Poland in European solidarity. Here our partners should also understand our needs. Poland is fulfilling its tasks concerning the security of the European Union's land border without any reservations. In conclusion, the European Union should move towards creating some form of institution based on values of real value, not facade values, as I mentioned at the beginning. The Union can survive the crisis by returning to its roots only by returning to its fundamental principles and values. This direction of foreign policy towards the European Union, as presented by the Minister, will help to find a solution to the problems and to strengthen Poland's position in the European Union. Values are the basis for the existence of the European Union. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u25	Thank you. Mr Tomasz Semoniak, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u26	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I will start by appealing to you not to fire any more Polish professional diplomats in Brussels, because since the Minister does not know where NATO Headquarters is located, there will be no one to take you to this headquarters. [[Bravo!]] She doesn't belong in Mons, just like you said and sent it to the clubs, but she's located in Brussels. Mons is home to NATO commander-in-chief. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Nevertheless, these threads should be appreciated in Minister Waszczykowski's speech on security and NATO issues. I am pleased to note that this exposé was a continuation of the policies of previous governments, not only in the last 8 years, but also in previous governments. It must be appreciated that the Foreign Minister speaks a different language than a few months ago when he was an opposition politician. Maybe there's a little lack of reminders other than the one the Minister always likes to say. But I would like to point out, appreciating the meeting in Bucharest, that it was President Bronisław Komorowski who created such a format of meetings before the Welsh summit, so we should be very happy that President Andrzej Duda continues this format. It is also important that you use such phrases as the strategic adaptation of NATO, abandoning previous expectations or claims to the alliance and changing your point of view depending on your seat. But it seems to me that this approach has become too cautious. Instead of talking about permanent NATO or US bases, there are a lot of rather soft and careful wordings about building infrastructure. Military infrastructure alone will not protect Poland. The need for military presence, the need for soldiers here. I appeal to the Minister to speak more courageously of this. I'm sure the Minister will have the support of the Civic Platform in this area. [[Applause]] Thank you very much to the Minister for appreciating what we have done in the policy of cooperation with the United States. I mean to note the beginning of the construction of the anti-missile installation in Redzikow this year - the 2012 agreement - the appreciation of the continuous rotational exercises of the American army in Poland, as well as the fact that in May last year during my visit to Washington, D.C. there were arrangements for the storage of heavy arms of the U.S. army, which in 2016 will rise in five towns in Poland. I would like to draw your attention to another part of your speech, which raises doubts, namely the correct consent or lack of opposition of Poland to return to cooperation in NATO-Russia format. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that we should expect that the issues of Poland's security, strengthening Poland, the act constituting NATO - Russia, which, without our participation in 1997, imposed restrictions on us, not on issues of Ukraine and Crimea, which are extremely important, but for which Russia's position is known, predictable, of course negative, by us. It is good that the Minister has noted the common security and defence policy of the European Union, it has been one of our priorities over the last years, also one of the priorities of the Polish Presidency in 2011. I would like to stress the words of President Schetin on this point: Active partnership with Germany and France is needed for a common security and defence policy. Without agreement with these partners, there will be no progress in what can really bring defence capabilities to Poland and the European Union. I would also like to point out that I see the difficult situation in which the Minister is in the current government, and therefore probably after this very continuing part of his speech, which did not sound convincing in the context of what the Minister said, namely the wording about the lack of subjectivity of Polish foreign policy. How could she be unsubstantiated if we've achieved everything the Minister said before? [[Applause]] Where did this come from, or did the dwarves get it all done? The second difficulty that the Minister has here is that it is different from that of our governments for eight years when the Minister of Foreign Affairs worked very closely with the Minister of Defence. The Minister is dealing with a situation in which your efforts, your actions, are ruined by various actions of the Minister of Defence. And so: you talk to German politicians, the Minister of Defence says in the media that the Germans are organizing a raid on Poland. In such circumstances, how can we convince the Germans of our position in NATO? You speak of cooperation within the Visegrad Group, you meet with the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Slovakia, stressing the closeness of relations, and in turn Minister Macierewicz leads to the fact that the Minister of Defence of Slovakia directs a very sharp protest letter, not only to Poland but, very widely, to the management of NATO and NATO commanders. You are talking to the British and, after these arrangements, the British Ministry of Defence must separate itself from what Minister Macierewicz tells in turn in the Polish media on this subject, absolutely confabulating. Besides, it seems to me that these findings that you confirmed during the last meeting, which resulted from previous discussions, namely that when Poland is a framework state for the point, for the VJTF forces, the British forces will enter under Polish command, grossly arguing with the Minister's statements that the Polish army is in a dramatic state. If he's in a dramatic state, why are Americans and other allies so eager to practice with us and so eager to go under our command? I also pointed out that the main club speech, Mrs Gosievska, contained elements of distance from what the Minister said. [[Uh...]] In conclusion, I would like to say that in all these matters which build the security of Poland, they build the position of Poland abroad, you can have our support. However, please - and I appeal to Prime Minister Beata Szydło and President Andrzej Duda, because Mr Jarosław Kaczyński was not in this debate for a moment - to allow the Minister to lead this policy effectively. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u27	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Długi, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u28	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Contrary to appearances on a level of generality, it is not difficult to determine what Polish foreign policy should be. She should be, first of all, Polish politics, Polish in two meanings: representing the interests of our country, but it is also a matter of keeping it in line with what the Minister said about our policy as a result of the sovereign will of our state. But it must also be remembered that Polish foreign policy also means the whole of Poland, not the foreign policy of a particular party or a particular group, and sometimes I have the impression that this is not a Polish foreign policy, but a foreign policy of a given political group. That's not good. [[That's right, that's not right.]] Polish foreign policy or the question of a group is also linked to a second requirement, i.e. it must be a foreign policy. In this Chamber, on the other hand, it sometimes seems to me that we are talking about national politics, because everyone speaks to national listeners and the foreign interest of Poland is devoted to the existence of Poland, to screwing up ourselves, let's be honest, inside, here, in the country. That's not the point. Polish foreign policy must be foreign and must take care of our foreign interests, not internal effects or internal conflicts. Thirdly, it must be a realistic policy. She may be ambitious, but she must be realistic, she must be feasible. And we also have a problem with this, because it was, in some sense, typical for a mainly right-wing, idealistic vision of the role of Poland, the special role of Poland as a submerge of something, as a regional leader with interests from sea to sea. It's not realistic, it's idealistic. On the other hand, there's no ambition, right? However, we lack ambition and treat our policy only as a policy of the younger brother of the world's great players. It seems to me that real policy, however, is a policy that sees our limited possibilities, but also sees the game of interests and tries to use them to our advantage. Let us therefore be ambitious realistic. Our security policy cannot rely only on treaty obligations. It's already here actually a few people said, and I think that's true. History teaches that treaty obligations are not sufficient. To ensure that allies have an interest in strengthening our security, we need to do everything we can to be treated as part of each other, right? So we need to be a part of this someone who's also supposed to take care of our safety, and we need to be a part of some kind of shared value zone. Sometimes we forget that, unfortunately, especially recently. On the other hand, when we talk about security, we also need to talk about our Eastern policy. Eastern policy should also be based on common values. We probably have little in common with the Russian state in the current operation of this country, but we have a great deal in common with the Russian people, with the Russians. So we all feel the same way, we think the same way, so let's make a bond. with these people, then we have an agreement with lovers of Okujawa, Wysocki, Tchaikovsky or Pushkin. I'm sure we can communicate there, and that could even be a matter of our state. We develop personal contacts, this was not mentioned at all in the Minister's exposé, cultural contacts with Russia. At this level, at human level, we are able to maintain good relations with Russia. For good relations with the Russian state may someday come the time, we can only wish for it. Relations with Germany are theoretically good at the level of authorities, but there is much to improve at the level of group awareness and fight against stereotypes, and this is also our right state. On both sides of the border, we do not stress how much we have in common against appearances and how much we also have in common historical tradition. Now, at a time when we have the pressure of certain foreign values, we should remember those times when we and the Germans defended common values. Not to mention the Gniezno reunions, it was a long time ago, but we forget that in the battle of Legnica, tragic Polish-German knighthood together defended Europe against something. So let us refer to these traditions, and even better to the tradition of doing this effectively. In the Battle of Vienna, half of the army were Germans, who together with us protected Europe from the flooding of completely foreign values. We also need to remind the Germans because they don't remember it. Nor do we use economic facts in our relations with Germany. German pro-Russian sentiments, and these undoubtedly exist and are the result of not only the work of agents of influence, which, I fear, the Russians have very many in Germany, are also due to the fact that we cannot say that the Germans think that the Russian market, the economy with Russia is so important and that it is necessary to be gentle with this power, and they forget, and we do not remind them that the Germans are selling more in Poland than in Russia. The Polish market should be and is more important for the Germans. Even the Germans don't know it, so let's remind them. Exports from Germany to Poland are larger than exports from Germany to Russia. Germany's economic interests in Poland should therefore be more important than in Russia. The exposé shows some vision of foreign policy, which is likely to be different from what we know from Minister Sikorski's speech probably in 2011 in Berlin. It was in the exposé that it was supposed to be different, only that we didn't know exactly what it was supposed to be like right now. However, I did not hear it in a very clear way and lacked specifics. However, I have not heard clearly what our relationship with the commitments of migrants is, and I think energy issues have also been dealt with a little bit in step. The present sense of security we build mainly on relations with the United States, but we forget that this should be verified daily. The world is no longer a one-polar world. The Americans are turning the other way. The center of the world is moving to Asia and that is why we need to remember that the multipolar world is much more complicated than it has been. The peace flowing from the Prime Minister's exposé, which is probably part of his personality, which is probably important in the Minister of Foreign Affairs, has upset me that I have not just seen this new, clear vision of foreign policy. I am afraid that this internal confusion that we have here in Poland at the moment has caused some withdrawn, defensive policy. This is what shows that internal issues are too important for our foreign policy, and at the present time, when we have problems, weakening the European Union's idea, creating a union in the Union, the challenges posed by enemies of our culture who are fighting through terrorism, or the rise in power ambitions in the East, they are creating new requirements for us, but we need to create a new vision which will, however, allow us to feel the support of the foreign minister and the government of the whole nation, and this method is above all to build some kind of cross-party consensus on the fundamental principles of our foreign policy and how to implement these assumptions. There are many ways, Minister, to have a common platform for exchanging ideas, agreeing positions. It's up to you to use it. I know it's not easy. Today's speeches here, especially some of the groups that were buńczuchny and did not seek an agreement, should be regarded as part of the theatre of this particular place, while undoubtedly you can build something outside of this place that will carry out our common line. The Kukiz Club15 treats Poland's interests as an overriding value, so in achieving the cross-party goal of Poland we see the future and offer cooperation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u29	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Sanocki, not associated, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u30	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Poles in the October elections showed that they expect a profound change on every level - in internal matters, but also in foreign policy. I wanted to thank the Minister for his very good speech, in my opinion, which shows that such a change is coming, that you are the expressor of such a change. Polish foreign policy, whose symbol for me and for many is former Minister Sikorski, has suffered, it must be said, not even failure, but failure. Let me just remind you that we have been completely excluded from the Minsk peace talks about the situation in Ukraine. This policy has not actually led to any positive effects, but rather to some kind of clinging to us in a dead end. Why did this happen? I suppose that because Minister Sikorski was leading this policy according to the scheme, he led it on knees to our Western partners, perhaps not even on knees, but on pie, and he reacted in the eastern direction with excessive aggression, self-confidence, the attitude of a teacher who wanted to teach everyone there, what kind of democracy, etc. It was a kind of Murzynskity of this policy and it unfortunately led to fatal consequences for Poland. On the other hand, as regards the announcement of Minister Waszczykowski expressed in the exposé, there are elements that show that you intend to, Minister, and I am sincerely speaking to you in this second, to reevaluate the assessment of our relations or engagement in the East - in Ukraine, Russia. This is because these are not situations that take place according to the black and white scheme, it has to be said directly. Conflict in the east of Ukraine or events in Ukraine, e.g. We completely ignore in this assessment, in building an image of this conflict such as - non-marginal at all - the rebirth of extreme Ukrainian nationalism, the role of the CNS and UPA. When we go to Ukraine and we see portraits or monuments of Shuchevych, Bandera, we cannot accept this not only because of our personal Polish accounts of harm... [[The Minister spoke about historical politics.]] Yes, that is what I am referring to, Member. We can't ignore the fact that we're going to the East - I'm actually coming from a Kresów family - and we're seeing black and red UPA flags at the celebrations and we're seeing portraits of Bandera. Not only because Ukraine should make a fair settlement towards Poland, but, I suppose, also because building the identity of a nation that wants to be a democratic, modern nation, on this type of heroes and on this kind of history will not lead the Ukrainians nowhere. I sympathize with the Ukrainians and their struggle, but it must also be said that this nationalism, this nationalist factor, was one of the important factors of the conflict in Donbasa. What did the Ukrainian government do after Yanukovych was overthrown? Three days after the overthrow, he abolished the Law on the Equality of the Languages of National Minorities. [[If he hadn't done it...]] I wasn't bothering you, I didn't bother you. I'll be happy to share my views with you on this in the rounds. I know Ukraine very well, I go there for many years, I have many friends and what I say is not based only on newspaper knowledge. Dear Minister and ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the re-evaluation of our policy, the assessment is very good, is a good announcement, and I encourage you to continue this. Our relations with Russia, we need to look at them in such a dimension that they will always be burdened with our past, with certain historical figures and with certain prejudices. It's hard for us to get away from it, too. It's hard for the Russians, but it's hard for us to get away from it, too. However, normal, good policies should be based on a rational, cool assessment of facts, trends and opportunities, not on prejudices and resentiments. I suppose - and I am very pleased that there is an announcement of dialogue in relations with our eastern partners, with Belarus, with Russia - that such dialogue should be extended. Please note that our radically anti-Russian so far - ours in the sense of the Minister's policy from the previous government - did not find the course so to speak... Our partners looked at it differently, the Germans look at it differently, the French, the Czechs and Hungarians look at it differently. We are the only ones left on this front of a severe fight against Russia, and I do not know if this is the Polish business. I think we need to reevaluate it very deeply. I hope the Minister will go in that direction. I encourage you to do that, and I think this is a very good direction, giving... [[This really is the world record to deny yourself in five minutes.]] ...hope that Poland will start leading its own policies, also towards our Western partners. Poland cannot conduct politics on knees. Of course, you can say, there were such speeches here, e.g. Mr. Schetin, so they can listen to us. It's best for them to listen to us when we say what they want to hear, isn't it? And I don't think that's what national politics is supposed to be about. I wish the Minister and the Government all the best. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u31	Thank you. Mr Michał Dworczyk, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u32	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Before I proceed to my speech, I must briefly address Mr Schetin's statement on the evacuation from Mariupola. I would like to call for fundamental decency in our discussion and to be based on facts. And the facts are, please, that Poles from Donbass since September last year have sought assistance and evacuation from the government of the Civic Platform. And they bounced away from a closed door. [[Don't talk nonsense.]] Only at the beginning of December, after he died tragically in Donetsk Kazimierz Wróbel, a Polish citizen, only then did the government of the Civic Platform deal with this matter. The evacuation was promised, from which I will remind you, Minister, that you wanted to withdraw. You wanted out. Finally, it was shifted and only took place in January, so you put our compatriots in danger of losing their health and their lives, so let's stick to the facts. [[That's not nice.]] [[Those are the facts.]] Minister! I would like to thank the Minister for the fact that you have so clearly and decisively highlighted the role of Polish and Polish people abroad in Polish foreign policy in your speech. This is a very important topic, but still underestimated by many people and therefore in my speech I will focus exclusively on this thread. Indeed, 20 million of our compatriots outside the country are great potential. This potential - but this must be clearly emphasised - has so far been used only to a limited extent. Many Poles living abroad occupy a high social and economic position. Many of them are actively involved in the public life of their countries. However, so far, both individuals and the entire influential environments have been ignored, and the Polish state could not or did not want to offer them an attractive formula of cooperation. These are indeed, as the Minister has rightly pointed out, our ambassadors, whose potential should be exploited. Many of these people consistently sought, until recently without any support from Poland, the good name of our country. The entire community of Poles in Western Europe, the United States and Canada are fighting against the slanderous statements that lie to our history and our real role during World War II. Therefore, it is with joy and hope for a good change that the Minister's statement on the activation of Polish diplomacy in cooperation with Polish environments in this area should be accepted. It is also a good time to thank all those Poles who work for our homeland on different continents, among others. By defending her good name. Poles abroad are a great potential, but also what we need to remember is a great commitment. Our country's commitment to care and assistance, coming directly from the article. 6 Constitution of the Polish Republic saying that the Republic of Poland provides assistance to Poles residing abroad. And the situation of our fellow countrymen in many countries is difficult. And this does not apply only to Poles in the East. Our compatriots in the Federal Republic of Germany, which some environments have set as a model for European standards, are still facing serious problems. It should be made clear that the Treaty on good neighbourhood and friendly cooperation is permanently violated by the German side. Only a small part of young Poles have the opportunity to learn their native language. In response to our requests to increase the scope for learning Polish, the German side points to the responsibility of the federal states on the organisation of teaching. This is obviously not true because the federal government is a party to the treaty and therefore responsible for the implementation of this commitment. The German government today does not recognise the existence of a Polish minority, although this fact confirmed a number of documents, among others. Polish-German Declaration on Mutual Protection of Minorities of November 1937 Unsolved remains the matter of the return of property that was seized by Polish organizations by the Third Reich, not one of the rare cases in which the Jugendamts take away Polish families of children. The round table talks since 2011 have not led to a positive breakthrough. Unfortunately, these problems could be calculated for a long time. Therefore, in view of the above facts, it should be appreciated by the Minister's declaration that the status of Polish people in Germany and the imbalance in the benefits of the German authorities in relation to the benefits of the Polish government to the German minority in Poland will be important factors in our assessment of the balance of the 25th anniversary of the Polish-German Treaty prepared this year. A separate great challenge is to cooperate with our compatriots on the former borders of I and II of the Republic and help them. In Lithuania, the Polish minority is subjected to constant pressure and attempts at consistent lithuanisation. The Polish-Lithuanian Treaty on friendly relations and good neighbourly cooperation is permanently violated. Unsolved problems faced by Poles since the beginning of the 1990s, such as no return of land, no bilingual names, no use of Polish spelling of names in documents, underinvestment of education, joined problems after the shameful amendment of the Education Act in Lithuania in 2011. This moment can be seen as a negative breakthrough, after which the problems of Polish education in Lithuania began to grow rapidly. The need to quickly align the exams with the Lithuanian language, the systematic discrimination of schools with the Polish language of teaching, the introduction of subjects taught in the Lithuanian language and the announcement of the consistent rubble of the Polish language - said Minister Azubalis - and the adoption of the Latvian model that is the consequence of the adoption of this law. Unfortunately, I cannot mention here the negative role of the Polish government and the then Prime Minister Donald Tusk. Initially, in 2011 the Polish government did not pay attention to requests for help on the educational bill, which came from our countrymen from Lithuania. It was only when the legislative process in Lithuania was over that the government of Donald Tusk took late and necessarily ineffective action. Following the adoption of the law to reduce the loss of imagery, the Prime Minister left for Lithuania and after a brief discussion with the Lithuanian authorities met with our compatriots. Then a spontaneous strike of youth and parents against changes in the education bill was spilled across Vilnius. At that time, given the scale of this bottom-up protest, there was probably a last chance to stop adverse changes for Polish schools. But it was then that Donald Tusk convinced our fellow countrymen to stop these actions, promising a breakthrough in education and referring to the arrangements with the Lithuanian government. Donald Tusk, whether intentionally or naively, deceived Poles in Lithuania, contributing to the school strike. And since then the situation of Polish education has consistently deteriorated there, and the Polish authorities have not created any effective aid programme. The facts described are painful, all the more so because Lithuania is a country with which we have close historical and cultural ties. We have similar interests in NATO and the European Union, and we also assess threats and challenges to our security. Therefore, the attitude of the Lithuanian Government regarding the Polish minority is completely incomprehensible. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, together with the Commission for Communication with Poles abroad, developed a multi-annual programme to support pupils in the first and last classes of schools with the Polish language of teaching, which has started since this year. I am convinced that this project should be followed by further projects on unilateral, long-term and stable support for Polish education. At the same time, it should be strongly emphasised that a strong political emphasis is needed on the Lithuanian authorities on the most pressing problems, such as accreditation of schools with the Polish language of teaching in Vilnius and the Podwilenian regions. In Belarus a group of Poles lives the largest among all Polish communities in the countries of the former Soviet Union. Until 2005, this was also the most organised and economically strongest minority, but over the last 10 years, the achievements have been systematically destroyed and repressed by the activists of the Polish Union in Belarus. All efforts should be made - and hopefully - to ensure that the current warming of Belarus' relations with the European Union, including with Poland, as mentioned by the Minister, leads to legalization of the Polish Union in Belarus, the return of property and the free operation of our compatriots in order to cultivate culture, tradition and Polish language. Free Poland today has a special responsibility and responsibility towards people - or their descendants - who in dramatic historical moments were repressed by the Soviet Union. In most cases the reason for repression was the fact that they were Poles. The Polish state must pay back the moral debt which it holds towards them. The Polish state must make up for this 25-year negligence and allow the descendants of the Soviets who were repressed to return to their homeland in the 1930s and 1940s. Therefore, the announcement by the Minister about the rapid adoption and implementation of the new law on repatriation, which is being developed by the Government's Legislative Centre, is a great hope, not only for us politicians, but above all for our fellow countrymen in the East. Similarly, the work on amending the Polish Charter Act mentioned by the Minister is important. It is worth recalling that one of the problems encountered by the Polish state during the evacuation of our compatriots from Donbass was the lack of a legal basis that could quickly run aid programs and carry out evacuations. The amendment of the law solves this problem by introducing provisions whereby our countrymen - holders of the Polish Charter in situations of health and life threats will be treated on similar terms as Polish citizens, of course, with respect for international law. Thanks to both laws, in the next 10 years it has a chance to come to Poland almost 100,000. our fellow countrymen from the East. Ladies and gentlemen, such a decision and such action has not yet been taken by any Polish government since 1989. It's worth remembering about bringing back the 100,000. Poles, also in the context of discussions on the migration crisis in Europe. It is also worth emphasising the primacy of each country's obligations towards its own countrymen, regardless of their nationality. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Subjective and partnership treatment of our fellow countrymen abroad, exploitation of their potential, development of Polish education in the countries of the Polish minority, hard pursuit of the good name of our country in the world, firm efforts to respect the rights of Poles living abroad, amendment of the Act on the Polish Charter, adoption of laws on repatriation and on the care of the Republic of Poland for Polonia and Poles abroad - all this gives hope for a good change. This also creates, perhaps for the first time in many, many years, the chance that Polish politics will cease to be treated as a stepmother and become an important part of Polish foreign policy. That is why I thank the Minister once again for presenting this ambitious plan. As a club, we declare our full support for the ministry's activities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u33	Thank you. Mr Rafał Trzaskowski, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u34	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I am glad because the Minister's speech was torn down, there was no longer any mention of getting up from his knees, of having to revolution, of total reconstruction of Polish foreign policy, and the Minister did not disappoint everyone, literally every step of previous governments, as this has happened in recent months. The choice of priorities is also appropriate because, indeed, the most important priority at the moment is to ensure security for Poles. On the other hand, the main question that comes to my mind is the question of the credibility of these words, because in just three months Poland has been relegated from this first European Union league to the margin of integration - which, of course, we are not pleased with - and the speeches made by our representatives to the European Parliament with the greatest enthusiasm were welcomed by the worst Eurosceptics who want to move their countries out of the European Union. That's really a reason to be sad. I share the Minister's diagnosis that the European Union is in crisis at the moment, comes out of the economic crisis, we have a migration crisis, the single market is being questioned, but that is why at this point we need to seek first allies, not just erosion and entrapment. The word "association" seems to be a good standard and reflects the minister's spirit. [[Applause]] It is not worth wasting time on secondary things, such as: implementing the European flag, just having to focus on a positive agenda, building trust, working together with our joint partners. First of all, you have to choose the possible fields of disagreement intelligently and refrain from making senseless antagonizations of anyone. The Minister spoke about regaining the subjectivity, because our partners - which causes a light smile on my lips - have been used to it in recent years. I recall what happened between 2005 and 2007: much banging and then dilettantism and poor implementation of any policy. I remember how you negotiated the Treaty of Lisbon and today you are surprised. It is surprising, for example, that migration policy looks different, that it is communal. It is surprising that the European Commission has become political. Like you didn't even know what you were negotiating in those years. And that's also characteristic of your policy. A lot of talking about subjectivity and then poor implementation in Brussels, the inability to pursue Polish interests. What's this subjective recovery supposed to look like? Is this supposed to be about calling the ambassadors on the rug? If there's anyone else in the diplomatic corps, I'd like to ask for patience. We will not complain with you, we will ask you for a little patience. Is this reclaim of subjectivity to refer to every, even the dumbest, speech in the foreign press? At the moment you have to look for allies, because there are really many important things to be done by Poland. There are no permanent allies, there are permanent interests. I found out that President Duda invented this formula. That's pretty interesting. We need to talk to everyone: the Visegrad Group, with our partners in Southern Europe. But don't build, please, these anachronistic concepts of the Intersea, as Minister Schetyn said, from the 20s of the previous century, because it doesn't lead to anything. We need to talk to everyone: Germany, France, the Scandinavian countries, including the United Kingdom. But I do not know whether the choice of Britain as the main ally at a time when the United Kingdom is really debating whether it is appropriate to leave the European Union. At a time when there will be a discussion about the EU budget, the most important interest of Poland, the budget that can be changed. Is this really our ally? We will approach your governments calmly and substantively. We are worried that most of the political capital will have to be used to explain to our partners the violation of the Constitution, the violation of the law in Poland. We're not happy about that. But we're gonna watch what you're doing, and we're gonna judge you for that. Will you be able to defend the single market that is currently reeling in jobs, against changes and temptations of some countries, e.g. as regards the transport sector, e.g. when it comes to freedom of movement for citizens? Are you sure you will be able to maintain, as we have succeeded, the unity of the European Union on Russia, and will Poland, because you are announcing this, play an absolutely first role in the negotiations between the European Union, Ukraine and Russia? Will you be able to fully implement the Energy Union and guarantee the transparency of contracts? Will you be able to maintain the Schengen area? Will you be able to defend this fundamental lack of consent to any dissection of the European Union, especially with regard to the euro area? Will you be able to secure the external border of the European Union? Will you equal the direct payments, which you have constantly attacked us and the Polish People's Party? Isn't there going to be Nord Stream II? ? Because you promised that you would do all this with your firm stand. And whether or not there will be any revision of the European Union budget, the one we have promised, which we have negotiated - and we have delivered the 400 billion that we have promised our citizens. [[Applause]] And finally, the last word. I have one request. Don't pretend, just as in Minister Waszczykowski's speech, that nothing is happening in Poland, that everything is okay, that democracy is not broken and the constitution is not broken, but try to explain your reasons in a meaningful way. And announce the possibility of withdrawing from the violation of this law, because only in this way will you be able to defend this strong position of Poland in the European Union. Thank you. [[Ladies and gentlemen, you may. The state, not you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u35	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Kozłowski, Kukiz,15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u36	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is good that Polish foreign policy is slowly getting up from its knees. However, the government has a rather difficult situation, because in fact an intense propaganda war is waged against Poland. Unfortunately, it is inspired by some Polish politicians, who have put Polish party interests above Polish right. [[Your own.]] This is the situation... At first I explained this situation by the fact that some Polish politicians, party leaders lack elementary historical knowledge and thus make such mistakes. But I think there's a second bottom here. And it's a good thing the Ministry is up to its task in the fight against this propaganda. But today I was expecting information about the government's tasks that I lacked. What's my point? I lacked information about restoring a policy of equal opportunities, especially in agriculture. I ran out of information, for example, about whether the government is planning to renegotiate the reference crop that PSL has negotiated a fatal, twice as low as the German farmer has. And that is what I lacked in this economic part of the Minister's speech. Second thing. I lacked a clear declaration on the amounts of immigrants imposed on us by the European Union. We do not know where this foreign policy will go. Nor do we know what the government will do to change the amounts imposed on us. Maybe our project will help him, because right now we're collecting signatures for the referendum. I hope that in terms of providing Poland with the most important thing: the security of the government in the Minister's person will work closely with Kukiz15 to ensure that Poles have what is most important for Polish families at the moment: security. And that we will not unnecessarily expose ourselves to what recklessly caused Western Europe at the moment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u37	Thank you. Mr Richard Galla, not associated, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u38	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister Waszczykowski also mentioned our country's cooperation with Germany in his speech, so allow me in my speech to devote time to the issues of Polish-German cooperation. High Izbo! In June this year we will celebrate the 25th anniversary of the signing of the Polish-German Treaty on good neighbourhood and friendly cooperation. It is a document of historical importance, which has a European dimension and is the foundation and framework for working broadly understood cooperation and neighbourhood between Poland and Germany. The past quarter of a century is a time when, together with our western neighbour, we have overcome many difficulties and barriers to mutual perception and cooperation. Germany has become Poland's key partner. Polish-German contacts have been significantly strengthened and intensified in all areas. 2/3 of Poles surveyed think that relations with Germany work very well. This is the capital we've been building for 25 years. A dense network of institutional contacts and, above all, social contacts was created at all levels, ranging from cooperation of Polish voivodships with German lands, through hundreds of partnerships of local governments (cities, municipalities, powiats), to thousands of cooperation agreements between schools, hundreds of partnerships between academic institutions. This resulted in numerous contacts, thanks to which the citizens of both countries got to know each other and get to know each other, present their achievements, learn each other, exchange experiences, make friends, conduct cooperation. However, I am concerned to note that the recent image of our neighbour and the focus on what divides us: energy policy, climate policy, reception of refugees, relations with Russia, or lack of support for a permanent NATO base, will lead to the rise of prejudices and consolidation of stereotypes. It would be much more helpful to highlight similarities and common interests, and these are not lacking. It is primarily about economic development, because in this system of connected vessels in which we operate, the economy of Poland is closely dependent on the economic situation in Germany, and the collapse of economic relations with our western neighbour will translate into turbulence in the Polish economy. I would like to remind you that in 2014 the total value of trade flows in relations between Poland and Germany reached more than €87 billion, on the side of German exports and imports Poland took 8th position and was also the 8th trading partner of Germany in terms of the volume of trade. Poland was thus ranked in front of countries such as Russia, Italy, Korea, Denmark and Sweden. Even one of my predecessors talked about it. Since 2010, there have also been important round table discussions involving representatives of the ministries of both governments and representatives of the German minority in Poland and Poles in Germany. I can tell you I'm part of this conversation myself. Their objective is to improve the implementation of the rights deriving from Article. 20 and 21 Treaty on good neighbourhood and friendly cooperation. These conversations have already had some effect. I would like to mention the office in Berlin, the Polish House in Bochum, representatives in the lands, as regards matters of language teaching, or other things, even the way of financing. These are things that have been handled in the last few years. But I think that this cooperation should continue. One important element of these bilateral challenges for me is cooperation in the maintenance of the Odrza route, Oder, in the border area. As we know, a contract has been created for 10 years, this agreement has been signed between our governments on 17 April 2015. And I would like to appeal here to really approach this agreement very honestly, because I think that this agreement between Poland and the Federal Republic of Germany, well implemented, can have a significant impact on the future of the Oder not only in terms of flood safety, i.e. the safety of the inhabitants, but also in terms of growth of entrepreneurship, economy and development of the whole border. The border is a specific region, sometimes called seismographs or litmus paper. It's like showing the state of relations between neighbors. I would like this cooperation within the framework of Polish-German relations to be as good as possible. To conclude, I would like to say that the balance of achievements resulting from the implementation of the Polish-German Treaty on good neighbourliness and friendly cooperation is impressive. However, there is still much to be done. Let's do everything we can to ensure that the Polish-German border authentically connects Poles and Germans, not divides them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u39	Thank you. Mrs Elżbieta Raven, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u40	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! One of the most important tools of state policy is cultural diplomacy. Without it, it is not only possible to create a positive image of the state by exposing Polish culture and national heritage and artistic and intellectual achievements of Poland and Poles. An active and effective foreign cultural policy is seen today as a testimony to political and economic strength. It is undoubtedly a great example of soft power. Disregarding the role of cultural promotion is due to a lack of understanding as to how much culture itself should be understood, the basic medium of international communication today and at the same time the department of the economy. This misunderstanding leads in a simple consequence to questions such as Stalin's question about how many divisions the pope has. In the public debate, the state of Polish cultural policy has been criticised for years. It is claimed that there are too many institutions engaged in promoting Polish culture abroad, institutions with unclear competences, which duplicate their responsibilities, non-transparable, badly cooperating and as a result ineffective in their own activities and not using social initiatives. Apart from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the main operators of cultural diplomacy are, of course, the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, other ministries, national cultural institutions, including among others. Polish Film Institute, Book Institute, National Fryderyk Chopin Institute and other public and private entities. The idea of Adam Mickiewicz Institute was created by the recognition that the promotion of Polish culture and the promotion of Poland requires closer coordination of activities. The Institute was established in 2000 as a result of an agreement between the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Culture and Art. But this has not changed much despite the undoubted achievements of the institute. A few years ago, there was an opinion that a law on an institute was needed, which would make it a promotion coordinator abroad and an institution performing tasks common to the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It has been said that it will give this institution a character similar to the Goethe Institute or the Cervantes Institute and will shape it so as to implement the strategic priorities of the state and the Polish state's right, not the individual interests of different people, groups and environments. However, nothing has happened in this case, and the institute is more of an imperialist than a cultural institution, which is of course valuable, but unfortunately far insufficient. The Promotion Council of Poland was also established in 2004. However, it does not have formal powers giving it the possibility of inter-ministerial planning or coordination with other institutions. The real problem, therefore, is the lack of a coherent strategy and coordination of the promotion of Poland, the dispersion of competences and resources for promotional purposes. Poland is not seen as a strong brand in the world as a result. Single actions will not be effective when it comes to changing this situation. Granted, the Polish Promotion Council has prepared a document with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs called "Polish Promotion Directions until 2015, but it has never won the rank of government program. And here is the question: Does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which is the leading Ministry of Promotion of Poland, see these problems? Is it developing an update of the strategic orientations for promotion activities in the format of the new multi-annual strategic document? Does he see the need to change the way the Institute of Adam Mickiewicz works and the Council of Promotion of Poland? The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is the only entity with the potential for implementing cultural diplomacy, of course in the form of institutes and offices of the Republic of Poland, embassies and consulates. The task of spreading Polish culture, knowledge about history and national heritage in the world is, of course, to Polish institutes. And unfortunately, it's hard to be satisfied again. They are the domain of almost exclusively left-wing circle environments of the Voivodeship Gasety and Political Criticals, there is no place here for diplomacy of values, historical diplomacy, diplomacy in line with the Polish state of which the Minister spoke, which is why I believe that this will change rapidly. He is pleased that the Minister announced the reform of the institutes, and we hope that they will increase. Today we have 25 of them. We hear many complaints about the functioning of institutes, that they do not really do much and scare away. Although the promotion of Poland is also a promotion of language, many institutes do not have pages edited in Polish. At the parliamentary interpellation addressed to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on this matter, Minister Sikorski replied that he had no money to maintain the Polish-speaking pages of all institutes. Curiosity, at such a small cost of this case. We hear that institutes are closed to Poles, and there is a question of how you can conduct the Polish policy without the participation of Polish immigrants, who are, after all, promoting Poland with their presence in different environments. It is well-known that the most effective ambassador of the country may be its citizens, but they must have a knowledge and a sense, as someone has said, of the universal duty of cultural diplomacy. Institutes should prepare them for this and convince them not to push them away. We will not build a good brand, showing disrespect for our own language and countrymen. I think that the Polish policy, supporting Polish organizations, including Polish media and education as media of Polish culture and traditions, which the Minister spoke about, is also intended to implement, and thus announces the necessary change in the philosophy of the operation of Polish institutes. In practice, we also saw the same ideological manifestations. One example, but characteristic. Advertising, which caused a great storm over a year ago, to promote Poland abroad, in which the cross disappeared from Giewont and from the stage of the Battle of Grunwald. The controversial spot cost almost PLN 1.5 million, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs produced it to a company with the Polish Film Institute. They strongly opposed this extremely lying grip of the Catholic community, his outrage was expressed by the Podhalan Union, demanding that the image of Giewont and the Tatras, which eliminates from public space the cross, the sign of faith, patriotism and traditions, offends religious feelings and is a lie of history, as the president of the union said, recalling the words of the Holy Father John Paul. II, who called for the non-shame of the cross. In this context, it is beautiful to hear the Minister's words about diplomacy of values for the promotion of a Latin civilization that brings together the citizens of Europe. One of the priorities indicated is the key issue of combating negative stereotypes and slandering Poland. In particular, it is about the word castaway: the Polish death camp, manipulation used more or less consciously by the media, some politicians in different countries, including unfortunately in Germany itself. This lying and shameful term also appears in foreign scientific publications. We know how badly this hurts the memory of millions of victims of the Third Reich, including Poles who died in German concentration camps, and those who helped thousands of Jews. The moving history of the Ulm family is a significant example of the heroism of Polish families who sacrificed their lives during World War II to save their Jewish neighbor. How will the Ministry react to such situations, Minister? Historical policy is the foundation in many countries for strengthening a positive image in the world. In this regard, however, we have, as it is written elsewhere, the gleaning of "Pogłosia', i.e. we collect the results of the state investment in the negative image of Poland abroad. It refers, of course, to the film by Władysław Pasikowski co-financed by the public money of TVP and the Polish Film Institute. It is worth adding that the film was also co-financed by the Russian government's Cinema Foundation. Whose interests were pursued with money from political institutions? It is worse that there are environments in Poland that expect Poles to pay for defaming themselves. And one more aspect of the case. The actor who played the lead role in Pokosiu, Maciej Stuhr, played a little later on in the Russian crime series, which he supposedly got by accident. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Interesting case in the context of the co-creation of "Pogłosia" with the participation of Russian money. [[Applause]] Terming the Polish death camp or such statements as the head of the FBI, who held Poles responsible for the Holocaust... [[Voice from the courtroom: It's embarrassing.]] ...that's, among other things. the effect of how we care or rather do not care about the truth about Polish history. They show the scale of neglect of Polish diplomacy of the Third Republic in the field of historical politics. How important is the announcement of strengthening Polish historical diplomacy. [[Did you hear the FBI is in anti-Polish conspiracy too?]] Minister! The film was shown at many foreign festivals as a film representing Poland... [[Your diplomacy wants to run through stories about the Holocaust?]] ...and it was promoted willingly by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And as our second neighbour, Germany, we could see on the example of the German public television series ZDF, our mothers, our fathers, bleaching the history of Germany, and the slandering soldiers of the Home Army. Postulates on the need of a Hollywood film about Polish history, which will show what the war in Poland really looked like, for incomprehensible reasons in Poland is discredited or maybe understandable. In the meantime, the Georgians, in order to present their vision of history to the world, have made such a film. 5 days of war from 2011, a $12 million film about the Russian invasion of Georgia was co-financed by the Georgian Government. President of Georgia Saakashvili played well known actor Andy Garcia. May I? Yes, you can. And yet we have resources that we can be proud of and which we should use, reaching into very different domains. I think, for example. about a computer game of the Witch who won numerous awards at home and abroad. It was considered the world's best game of 2015, and the creators of the game as the studio of the year. I am thinking of Thomas Baginski, known for his excellent animations, who was nominated for an Oscar. For his feature-length acting film about the Witch, the hero of Andrzej Sapkowski's books, he found a Hollywood partner, a renowned American production company. Mr Tomasz Baginski, unlike many Members representing Poles here, was not afraid to say: this film will remind Poles that they should be proud of it. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This year and the following years, we have a wonderful time to practice historical politics. You said that in 2016 you would strengthen Polish historical diplomacy using this year's anniversary of Poland's baptism - I will remind you that the Polish Parliament established 2016... [[That's why you reduced the funds to the Constitutional Tribunal.]] ... The year of the 1050th anniversary of the Polish Baptism - and the upcoming 100th anniversary of independence to promote our history. [[And the anniversary of the Constitutional Court?]] [[Calm down.]] I will remind you of another anniversary: 450th anniversary of the Lublin Union in 2019, how grateful the subject for historical diplomacy in the sense in which the Minister of Foreign Affairs presented it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[You're welcome.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u41	Thank you. Mr Robert Tyszkiewicz, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u42	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I cannot ignore Mrs Kruk's speech for a moment and not express my sincere sympathy to the Minister, because it seems to me that, in view of such extensive, mutually exclusive and contradictory ideological expectations, prejudices, complexes of really Polish foreign policy, there is no longer a danger of entrapment, but also complete loneliness. [[Applause]] Minister, we'll try to help not to do that. [[You didn't understand, sir.]] [[Something's going on.]] I would like to say a few sentences about Eastern policy, which is certainly one of the most important links of Polish foreign policy. Unfortunately, Minister, in the information presented today, we do not see either a comprehensive strategy of Polish Eastern policy or its instruments of action. I will start with European policy in the East and Poland's role in this area. Our greatest concern is the tension that has arisen in recent weeks in Poland's relations with the main European institutions and leading countries of the European Union, because this tension can significantly reduce our ability to influence, co-create the policy of the European Union in the East, and perhaps one of the common foundations of Polish Eastern policy for 25 years was that the only effective Eastern policy is European policy. Only Europe can effectively stop the aggressive urges of Russia, only Europe can bear the burden of rebuilding our eastern neighbourhood and making this eastern neighbourhood of the area of democracy, the value of European civilization. This can only be done in the mainstream of European policy, Minister, only in close, close cooperation with the largest European partners. Every attempt to get Poland out of this mainstream hits the very heart of Eastern policy and puts us in a position of loneliness in the face of threats from the East. That's what we have to try to avoid. I appreciate you saying that you will be developing the Eastern Partnership project, but I would ask that you also refer to some of your previous statements, from a time when you were a significant opposition representative, because it is worth recalling that in 2014 you said that the Eastern Partnership was a German concept and that today it is not right to be. I appreciate the effort that you are saying today that the Eastern Partnership should be rebuilt and developed. And it's worth it, because I think we're all aware that there are people among our neighbours in the East, there were people who spilled blood for the Eastern Partnership to be realized. It is worth appreciating this policy. [[Applause]] Poland's leading role in creating the policy of the Eastern European Union under the Civic Platform was undeniable. This is what experts and politicians say not only in the Union itself but also in the East. [[Yes? Are we in Minsk?]] There was little talk about the East in Europe 8 years ago, and it is also the Member who knows very well. There's been talk of the south dimension, not the east dimension. And today... [[What about today?]] ...all talk about the East in Europe. They are already rooted in European politics traditions... [[But we're not there.]] ...the achievements of Eastern policy. [[We're not there.]] [[There's the Eastern Partnership.]] Madam President, if you think that after 8 years we have this year, this year, the opportunity to have visa-free travel with Ukraine and Georgia, that three countries east of us have association agreements with the European Union, and you say that this is not enough, then tell me, really, what more could have been done at the time of the European crisis when Russia attacked Ukraine. [[Because Vilnius was a great success.]] I believe that we must respect this work. This is really the only real policy. [[Applause]] The Eastern Partnership is the only real policy that we have to offer our eastern neighbours, which brings real results. Unfortunately, I have the impression that you are bringing Polish foreign policy out of the mainstream of Europe, and that you are creating incredible chaos in Eastern politics. Today everyone is starting to wonder what this Eastern policy is about. [[What do you mean, everybody?]] Will we, together with Europe, draw the eastern neighbourhood towards the European Union, or are we starting to pursue some exotic ideas? [[Is the crisis in Moldova a success?]] And I want to assure all of you that people in Ukraine were dying to be part of the European Union... [[And how did we help?]] ...not any other projects, just the European Union. They gave their lives for it. It's worth remembering. This is their goal and today, thinking about the development of the Eastern Partnership, one must also think about giving them the prospect of membership of the European Union. It's a big job. [[Applause]] This dialogue should also be conducted with our biggest partners in the European Union. Relations with Russia. We haven't heard much about relations with Russia today. Maintaining dialogue with Moscow is the right thing to do, the visit of the Deputy Minister, the Deputy Chief of Polish diplomacy in Moscow was appropriate. The only concern is the lack of any effect of this visit. You accused the previous government that it was not effective in relations with Russia, you bounced off the wall yourself, and the reviews that Minister Lavrow gave after this visit are disqualifying for assessing its effects. [[But there can be no worse relationship than your time.]] Relations with Ukraine. PiS, while in opposition, criticized the then Prime Minister Kopacz, that only 3 months after her appointment she paid a visit to Ukraine. I'm the one who wants to ask. It will soon be three months since the new PiS government was established. You didn't say anything when Prime Minister Szydło held a bilateral meeting with the Prime Minister of Ukraine. We still don't have such a visit scheduled. It is worthwhile, appreciating the role of our relations with Ukraine, to think of such a visit. Relations with Belarus. I don't see a clear idea for a policy against Belarus either. As you know, Minister, my relationship with this country is particularly close to me. I have been chair of the parliamentary team for many years. Belarus. I welcome the desire to engage in a dialogue on local border traffic, which is the right step. There was some lack of information on how we want to bring Belarus finally to the implementation of the local border traffic. But I would also like to make it clear to the Minister: we are ready to work with the government to work together on Poland's action towards Belarus, but I believe that the policy of conditional dialogue should continue to be pursued in this country, i.e. More for more. Before you go to Minsk and shake the hand of President Łukaszence, it is worth to formulate proposals that will concern democracy, the Polish minority in Belarus and respect for the rights of the opposition. [[That's exactly what's gonna happen.]] Let's remember, This year we have parliamentary elections in this country. It could also be a test, and it's worth it, Minister, to remember that. If you build this dialogue in this way, you will have our full support. Historical dialogue - a moment, because much has been said about it. However, it must be that we really take historical dialogue seriously with Ukraine and Russia first of all. It is worth, Minister, that the forums on which difficult matters were discussed in the East should finally start their activity, because they seem to be in some kind of freeze, and the historical dialogue with Ukraine does not look like the last meeting of the parliamentary assembly of Poland and Ukraine, from which the Members of the Polish Republic left simply because they felt that the Volynsk drama, the Volyn tragedy, the Volynsk crime they did not want to talk about. Not enough determination in terms of economic issues and cross-border cooperation with the East. This thread must be developed and continued. He's incredibly important. This economic cooperation is extremely important for Poland. Minister, in an unstable environment, we cannot afford a chaotic foreign policy. Poland loses its role as leader of European Eastern Policy by alienating itself to its key partners. If you, Minister, go back to the mainstream with your policy, to dialogue with key partners, you can always count on our support for Eastern policy. But please take this condition seriously. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u43	Thank you. Please take the floor of Minister Waszczykowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u44	Thank you, Marshal. In a few words, I wanted to address some of the issues raised by my previous speakers. Firstly, I would like to say that you should listen and read with understanding, and many of your work has not been done. I know it's been a hard and hard night... [[They'll even sleep.]] ...but you can't come to the Sejm in the morning with the thesis written by Mr. Mirosław Czech from the Gazeta Wyborcza... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[You don't come out here at all, how are we supposed to talk like that?]] ...read them against what I wrote and said. You can't do that, can you? [[This isn't a dialogue.]] You can't promote him on chaotic matters, on chaotic politics... [[Minister, we speak our language.]] ...which were said differently. [[The Lord speaks to his, we speak to ours.]] Now I would like to address the very difficult issue of Eastern policy. One of the main elements of Eastern policy is the Eastern Partnership. I say this as a man who spent many years in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and who saw, as a witness, how this Eastern policy and the Eastern Partnership were born. And I am explaining to you once again - and none of the gentlemen in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have ever worked - that the Eastern Partnership is a German concept of Eastern European policy, which was proposed to the Government of Law and Justice in 2006-2007 under the name of European Neighbourhood Policy Plus. This was granted publicly a few months ago in an interview with the then German Commissioner for Enlargement Verheugen. What was that policy about? It was intended to create a buffer zone between Russia and Poland, the European Union, that is to draw several post-Soviet countries away from Russia, but not to give them the chance to join the European Union. And this policy was rejected by us as a policy that was just wrong, which created an illusion for these countries, did not give them the prospect of membership of the European Union. [[Study, boys.]] However, you have adopted this policy, explaining wrongly to the world that it was invented by Mr Sikorski and Mr Bildt. She didn't. This policy ended in disaster. Because Majdan, Euromaidan questioned it. People have gone to Euro-Maidan, demanding: We want to go to the European Union. [[But it's a success.]] We do not want to sit in the atrium, which was created under the name of Eastern Politics. [[This is a partnership success.]] [[Voice from the Civic Platform.]] This is not a partnership success, because they have just challenged the partnership and demanded membership. They've requested membership. [[Voice from the Chamber: They have an association agreement.]] And as soon as they were offered an association agreement, the partnership was over, right. [[But we had an association agreement before.]] But can we talk or not? [[Of course.]] But no one offered us an atrium, but we were immediately offered a path to the European Union. Such a path was not proposed to them and today the Association Agreement does not offer them this membership, or even visa-free movement. That's one thing. Next, the second myth is that our best eastern policy is Western policy by the European Union. But speak openly that this is not about Brussels, this is about what Minister Sikorski has said and explained over the years. What's he been explaining all these years? He explained as a mantra that close cooperation with Germany would bring us closer to the European decision-making centre. And it was a myth that didn't come true. It turned out that coming closer to Germany, we did not become an entity that implements European Eastern policy, because neither in the Normandom format created by Germany nor in the Minsk format, which is currently implementing the Eastern policy of the European Union, Poland did not find itself. So it was a myth that said that the closer we get to Germany, the closer we get to the decision-making centre, the more we will have an impact on the European Union's eastern policy. We don't. Another myth is that we are getting out of the mainstream of the European Union because - again what? - we're leaving Germany. No, we're not leaving Germany, we're expanding the current. We want to be not only with the Germans, we want to be with the UK and we want to be with our neighbours from our region. [[But we were. We were at 16 others, not four.]] [[Let the lady learn to vote. Buttons.]] [[You won't be so smart.]] So we want to be in a wider European context, not just in some kind of mainstream. Finally, the last issue that was also addressed as a myth - a lack of commitment to migration issues. So we are reminding, and I also mentioned in my speech that we are committed to Ukraine's migration issues, that we are engaged in the main trend of the European Union, which helps Turkey, and we are making an important contribution there to gather this 3-billion-dollar contribution to Turkey, which would stop the migration problem. The Prime Minister is about to go to London, where she will also make another contribution to the Syrian issue. We are taking our own action to support those crisis areas where there are refugees. We've sent one plane, and they're about to fly another plane, and so on. Jordan, Lebanon. Minister Błaszczak just now announced a few days ago that we will be involved in the implementation of the agreements you made last year, and we will receive several hundred people from hotspots this year. [[100.]] So there's a whole range of actions we're doing to implement migration policy. Please review this, my speech has already been printed on all portals, you can see that I am referring and to immigration, to the European Union, to energy, to economic policy, to many, many aspects of Polish foreign policy, which will be implemented multi-trackly, widely, and not only on the basis of some narrow mainstream which was to flow through Europe. He wasn't carrying. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u45	Thank you. Mr Adam Andruszkiewicz, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u46	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I fear that in these geopolitical discussions we are beginning to lose sight of Poles in the East, which I think should be one of the priorities of Polish foreign policy. Besides, I am pleased with the declaration by the Minister that Polish education in the world, but above all in the East, will be one of the priorities of Polish foreign policy. Poles can never become a tool for our government's geopolitical games. They must always come first, regardless of who runs the country, because Poles are the highest good of our country. Yesterday I found out that one of the four Polish schools in Latvia was in danger of liquidation. It's about a school in Krasław. I have spoken to the headmaster of this school, and I would like to ask the Foreign Minister here if we will be able to allocate an amount of approximately 120,000. Zloty to save this school. It seems to me that this is not too much money to save Polishness in Latvia. Honourable Members! Dear Marshal, Minister! Let us remember that it is our duty to implement Polish subjective foreign policy and to take care of Poles in the East, that is also the highest responsibility. Never implement foreign interests, foreign EU directives. We always have Polish interests. Therefore, as a Polish parliamentarian, as President of the All-Polish Youth, I would like to appeal to all Poles to support the collection of the signatures of the Kukiz club15 on the publication of a referendum in Poland, so that the Polish people as sovereign of the Republic of Poland would say whether they wanted to accept immigrants or not. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Speaking of schools in Latvia, Mr President, it is enough for every Member to drop 300 PLN and the matter is settled. I declare.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u47	Thank you. Mr Jan Klaviter, not associated, has the floor. There's no... You're an MP, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u48	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Position of the Right of the Republic. The most important, necessary goal of Polish foreign policy must be to build a safe world for independent Poland, and an important element is the formation of international relations so that the fundamental interests of our country can be supported in an international environment. These assumptions today represent two lines of our policy: Central European solidarity and the formation of a strong Christian opinion in Europe. The right of the Republic therefore accepts with great appreciation such achievements of Polish foreign policy as the joint declaration of the NATO Regional Summit in Bucharest by the President of the Republic, such as the declaration of the Prime Minister of Hungary excluding any action by the European Union restricting our rights in the Community structures or, finally, a joint opposition with Hungary to the instigation of our countries to indirectly assign legal status to homosexual relationships. This trend of action it is necessary to continue continuously, consistently and multidimensionally. The second direction is to build a strong Christian opinion in Europe. If we want, and we should have a real policy, we must reject pseudo-oreism, which pretends that it does not see the civilizational drama taking place in today's Europe, or hopes that it will end in the same way as the current winter. History, culture, politics aren't natural phenomena, it's human facts that require human responsibility. If governments, European structures and international party federations openly promote abortionism, homosexual revolution, cultural relativism breaking up with Christian heritage, the dechristianization of Europe will continue and Poland will be spiritually and morally isolated. Only a symmetrical commitment of governments and political movements to the values of Christian civilization can stop and reverse this process, and Polish politics will give social support in Europe. Such actions, such involvement we expect from the authorities of the Republic of Poland. A great opportunity for this will be the 1050th anniversary of Poland's baptism. In the national plan, this anniversary is an opportunity not only for historical memories, but also to present with other countries of Central Europe an alternative to Europe abandoning its Christian heritage and civilisation. It is the right time to express the truth that John Paul II preached that Christianity is not only the past but the future of Europe. We strongly encourage the authorities of the Republic to commemorate the 1050th anniversary of Poland's baptism of public acts, which will become a signpost for our and not just our policy in Europe. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u49	Thank you. Mr Konrad Głębocki, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u50	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In my part of the position of the Law and Justice Club, I will address a number of issues, but first of all I will refer to the development of economic cooperation with foreign partners. I was very surprised by Mr Petru's comment that there was nothing about the economy in Minister Witold Waszczykowski's speech. Apparently, we listened to two different speeches. I would rather make such a remark at the beginning that we very much welcome and approve the declaration by Minister Witold Waszczykowski to increase his determination to support Polish companies abroad as part of economic diplomacy. The accession of a wealthy nation can have its very important source in the development of exports. We see that there is still some potential for further growth in exports to our traditional European markets, such as Germany and the United Kingdom, but also the Netherlands, Spain, the Czech Republic, Italy, Hungary, France, Sweden. In all these countries, which I mentioned, there was an increase in Polish exports last year. However, there is, as Minister Waszczykowski said, a great potential in markets outside the European Union. This is not only about countries such as China, India, Vietnam and Indonesia, but also about developed countries such as Japan and Korea. But also as we look towards America, we see Mercosur groups, an organization that created a common market in the beginning from countries such as Brazil, Argentina, Uruguay, Paraguay, and then joined other countries, and there is really very much potential. Minister Waszczykowski also referred to the TTIP agreement, a trade agreement between the European Union and the United States. This is a very important agreement and negotiations are also of great importance. I think it would be very important, as Minister Piotr Naimski also says, that we should strive to remove restrictions on the sale of gas from the United States. This would provide us with the possibility of importing cheap energy raw materials. Of course, Africa is also very important. We positively assess the practice, which has taken place particularly intensively in recent months, i.e. information about the potential of Polish companies, which should be a permanent element of interstate political talks. President Andrzej Duda's visit to China was a very good example of the desired action in this area. The main objective of this visit was to strengthen economic ties. The president participated among others. in the Polish-Chinese Economic Forum in Shanghai, as well as in the forum of the countries of Central and Eastern Europe and China. In the past, attempts have been made to strengthen our economic presence outside Europe. There were programs like Go Africa or Go China, we can now talk about Go Iran, but the scale of these programs was insufficient in comparison to the needs. At the same time, it is important to keep in mind that information about such programmes should reach all interested entrepreneurs. In this respect, I think, we need to run major information campaigns in the country. Moreover, financial instruments supporting export of goods by Polish companies, such as attractive loans or Polish export insurance system, need to be developed. A separate problem is the creation of a coherent system of the Polish brand, because this system is still not consistent, it should also be developed in cooperation with Polonia. Here a very important accent of Minister Witold Waszczykowski's speech was the issue of cooperation with Polonia and possible benefits which could result from such cooperation for Poland, and in economic terms it is very much imposed on itself. The Minister also spoke about the development of a network of Polish diplomatic posts. This will certainly also happen in connection with our economic interests. Poland's energy security is of great importance for the future of our country. Minister Waszczykowski spoke about the Energy Union. We should strive to achieve this union, which assumes that one entity cannot simultaneously own the transmission infrastructure and own the raw material transferred. In the case of Nord Stream II, unfortunately, this principle is broken. This project also runs counter to the foundations of the Energy Union for another reason, because it does not result in diversification of sources of supply of energy raw materials. Ladies and gentlemen, coming to this room for this debate today, I thought we could talk about foreign policy in a calm and substantive manner. [[We're talking.]] Unfortunately, this was my hope that the statement of President Grzegorz Schetin, who said that Polish foreign policy was ruined in previous times of the rule of law and justice. And I would say that Polish foreign policy was in ruins when Minister Radosław Sikorski... [[You have a complex.]] ...in November 2011 in Berlin, he paid a specific tribute to the lewdness, unambiguously recognizing the leadership of Germany. [[Applause]] Didn't the Members of the Civic Platform feel that something was wrong at the time that one European country recognised the leadership of the other European country? The policy direction was set by Minister Waszczykowski during the rule of law and justice. We aim to ensure that the European Union is a partner country that treats each other partnerly and does not know the leadership of one particular country, even the largest country. When are you gonna finally admit it and face the truth? Did this subsidiary bring anything good to Poland? 'Cause patting on the back, a couple of awards, a position for Donald Tusk... [[Oh, come on.]] I don't think it's real, real benefits for Poland. [[The condominium again.]] Just a few more words about the immigration crisis. It is a fact that the European Union has been very passive with this unprecedented wave of immigrants so far. The Union's approach to this problem lacks firm will in the first place in the area of border sealing, halting the wave of immigrants, but there is only a will to control and manage this process, as was the priority in the previous Presidency. It can change, we hope. The Dutch Presidency is already talking about priorities, including the material that we received yesterday from the Dutch Ambassador, about a holistic integrated approach to migration. Let us hope, then, that this crisis will be resolved with Poland's contribution. But here we must first of all bear in mind the strategy and the real, deeper analysis of the situation. Besides, there was such a debate here in this Chamber on 16 September 2015, when President Jarosław Kaczyński spoke, among others. of the principle known in Christendom as ordo caritatis. This principle restores proper order to things, because it says that first we must ensure the safety of our own nation, and then the whole world. Also in this speech, Prime Minister Kaczyński did not say no to help. We must help, but above all outside the European Union and in a manner proportionate to our capabilities. Mr Kosiniak-Kamysz spoke about it in his speech, so I understood it that I regret that it is not possible to create an alliance with the Czech Republic, Hungary or Slovakia. He just gave a rather bad example, because it was because of Poland that this alliance did not take place on the huge wave of immigrants. It was Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Romania that strongly resisted any relocation mechanism and even such mechanisms where it would be voluntary to declare amounts. It was a lost opportunity. We could have strengthened our bonds. How much we have in this group, and even in a wider group of countries of Central and Eastern Europe, has shown the recent success of the summit of the countries of Central and Eastern Europe in relation to security in our region, which was co-organized by the President of Poland, President Andrzej Duda, and President Klaus Iohannis of Romania. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u51	Thank you. Ms Agnieszka Pomaska, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u52	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Much has already been said in this debate, but I would like to address in particular those threads which later appeared in the debate and have already appeared in the debate by the Minister. Firstly, I would like to point out that Majdan was, after all, defending Ukraine's association agreement with the European Union. I'll remind the Minister, it's a shame that the Minister is leaving, but I'll remind the Minister... [[We're running out of ministers, so what are we gonna say?]] [[Voice from the hall: Government saves.]] ...that we were able to work together for Ukraine and for Ukraine's cooperation with the European Union. We did a joint mission with you - then Mr Waszczykowski, for example, to the Dutch Parliament, where we led the parliamentarians there to ratify the Association Agreement with Ukraine. Besides, this task is still before the PiS government because this agreement has not been ratified by the Netherlands. This should, of course, be done by various diplomatic channels. I'm not hiding that I'm counting on the Minister on this. Secondly, I missed the Minister's speech on such a key long-term goal for Poland. I believe that this should be the goal of achieving a Western European standard of living. Today I have the impression that the government Prime Minister Szydło and Minister Waszczykowski are a bit afraid of using Western European terms at all. They direct their actions in a slightly different direction. I believe that Mr Głębock here referred to this, that relations within the European Union and within the framework of foreign policy, and within the European Union itself should be conducted evenly. I feel like today is exactly the opposite. So far we have worked together within the Visegrad Group, within the Weimar Triangle, within the entire European Union. Today, in the speeches of government representatives, we hear above all about the Visegrad Group, which is important, but I would like to point out that not in all matters, even when it comes to relations with Russia, we can agree with the Visegrad Group countries. We hear about the treatment of the Weimar Triangle. That's what it's like to move away from the right proportions. This is a departure from what Mr Głębocki, a representative of the PiS, was talking about. Thirdly, Poland's position, especially Poland's position in the European Union. I didn't have that in the Minister's speech. First of all, how is this position to be built? Of course, the Minister spoke about the Visegrad Group and the UK, which I already mentioned, but, ladies and gentlemen, this is not enough. Let me remind you that, even when we fought for EU funds in the European Union, Prime Minister Donald Tusk was able to do so. groups of cohesion friends gather around 17 countries. I would like Minister Waszczykowski to have at least such an ambitious plan today, and that plan simply does not exist. [[Applause]] Fourthly, Minister. You left, and I wanted to address you with such an appeal and such a constructive proposal. The Minister has repeatedly insulted the opposition today, saying that he will not discuss with the thesis that are not prepared by the Parliamentarians of this House, that they are supposedly prepared by someone else. This is a way of practicing politics already known, it was practiced in 2005 and 2007, it was practiced by Minister Waszczykowski at the time when the Minister was in opposition. It's a policy of understatement. Minister, I appeal, let us put an end to the policy of understatement, let us put an end to the policy of conjecture, let us put an end to the policy of arrogance and the shoes you are presenting today to the Members of the opposition. Let's stop this because it doesn't serve the Polish state. This does not serve Polish interests, not only in the European Union, but also around the world, because it simply lowers Poland's rank and worsens Poland's position. And during these few months Poland has not only lost its image much, it has also lost its position. This position can still be saved. I encourage the Minister to do so. The Civic Platform is ready to support you, but is ready to support you then... [[You have to learn to vote.]] ...when we and the other parties will be respected and treated partnerly as you have been treated partnerly by us. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Oh, Jesus Christ!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u53	Thank you. Mr Marek Jakubiak, Kukiz.15
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u54	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I'll limit myself to using the minute. If the Minister is ignoring us, I don't think there's much to talk about. [[Applause]] We welcome the policy of the raised head towards our neighbours, and we welcome the announcement of a well understood assertiveness towards Germany. However, I would like to refer to this part of the Minister's statement concerning Ukraine. I believe that the Minister's words are a result of overzealousness and are based on political correctness. I believe that Ukraine should begin first and foremost with its relations with its neighbours and the European Union. Let's start with Volyn, effectively avoided in Polish-Ukrainian relations. Finally, let's settle the black holes in our common history. I would like to say that despite the President's visit on the next day, a hero was made out of bandit Bandera, a bandit sentenced to death in the Second Republic of Poland. And this subject needs to be dealt with. You can't just walk past it. In the ranking of the countries with the greatest corruption, Ukraine is at the top if not in the first place. In this case, it is at least risky to encourage Polish entrepreneurship to invest in such conditions if it is not to instigate Polish entrepreneurs to lose their own assets to Ukraine. That statement should be withdrawn. Let's start with each other, the Polish economy, before we help others. We have reason to believe that every financial aid causes the smile of the oligarchs, not the Ukrainians. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u55	Thank you. Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u56	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Observing the political environment of our country, we see how dynamically for many years, for several years now, it has begun to change. These changes have consequences. They are both threats and opportunities for the safety of Poland, security that is necessary for us to preserve our independence, to preserve the values resulting from our tradition as well as for, and perhaps above all, the safe development of our Polish community. It is from this perspective that we look at our country's membership of both the European Union and NATO. The most important tasks here in the area of our country's external security are to maintain NATO cohesion against the current challenges, a fundamental issue, an imponderabil issue, because for NATO to make sense in today's realities, there must be solidarity between all the countries that belong to this community. The next issue, for us very important, is the issue of the deployment of NATO bases in our country, with particular emphasis on the US troops that should function in them. And it's not just about material bases or rotating quotas. We are talking about solid bases, bases that will function in the so-called space. The north-eastern flank, about a situation where they can react quickly and efficiently in the event of a threat to any member of the Alliance or Alliance as a whole. Another issue is the maintenance of NATO's core functions as a Euro-Atlantic defence alliance, in particular the strengthening of NATO's north-eastern flank. This is an imponderable issue because, as you know, there are two fundamental, most important threats to Europe today. This is a question related to this north-eastern flank, which is a threat that can come from Russia and the East. And the second threat goes from the Mediterranean. This is a question of the influx of refugees from Syria. The issue of the Eastern flank is a broader issue, because it is a question of co-shaping with the Alliance of policies towards Russia and the countries of Eastern Europe. On the one hand, we must have guarantees that our interests and interests of all our friends in Central and Eastern Europe are respected in talks with the Russian partner, but on the other hand we want to take into account issues such as NATO cooperation with countries such as Georgia, Moldova, to take into account the fact that Montenegro will enter the Pact in a moment. As well as with today's situational arrangement, especially on the north-eastern flank, contact with our Swedish and Finnish partners is important. Another issue is the preparation of the NATO Summit in Warsaw. All the matters we are talking about in the field of external security of Poland are matters that will not be taken up at this summit. The final decisions will be made there. As we hope, they will be in favour of us both because of the deployment of these bases and because of the strengthening of NATO forces, above all the forces of the United States Army, the North-East flank. Another issue is the need to participate in NATO and the European Union's missions. It is a question that causes us to also support the external security of our country by acting in this space. The question of participation in the common security and defence policy of the European Union is a matter which leaves no doubt here, as does strengthening economic, energy and environmental security of the Republic of Poland, including through measures to cover Nord Stream II pipelines and OPAL regime of the third energy package, and, of course, issues relating to the findings of the last December Paris climate summit. These are matters that are important to us that we protect our market in this way, and a country whose citizens are getting rich can spend more money in its own defence. The next issue is the question of a task which is very important from the point of view of our external security, that is to support international cooperation concerning the Polish defence industry by our diplomacy. These issues have so far been treated rather by the stepmother, usually end with information about internal disputes in the space of this so-called. Polish reinforcements, possibly further casts at the positions of company heads or the creation of new holding companies. I think that a single foreign policy in the space concerning the Polish defence industry will be glad to be accepted by the employees of Gliwice Mechanical Works Bumar-Łabędy, the only factory in Poland until recently, in which we were able to produce a tank, because at the moment we do not have that possibility, but we will see. The next issue, the next task, is to contribute to improving the system for reducing arms control, both conventional in Europe and the integration of nuclear disarmament issues into these treaties. Ladies and gentlemen, these issues seem insignificant, unnoticeable even, but they are extremely important from the point of view of Polish external security in Europe. Another issue is a matter which is practically a separate issue, a separate task. This is a question that stems from the galloping development, let's say, civilization - a matter of cybersecurity. As far as cyberspace is concerned, unfortunately, we have a lot to catch up on, and the question that is, from our point of view, the most... With regard to the external security of the country, imponderabilia is an alliance, a strategic alliance with the only country that guarantees, is able to guarantee stability in Europe today, an alliance with the United States. It seems obvious. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u57	Thank you. Mr Andrzej Halicki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u58	Mr. Marshal! It is a pity that I cannot tell the Minister because there is no one from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, perhaps a case without precedent. [[Call it in.]] On the other hand, this debate is an important debate, and I would like us to talk to each other without any bad emotions and without false arguments, because if we accepted Minister Waszczykowski's speech, the text that was made, as if we read it, without taking into account any more votes, it could be said that 90%, as it has been since 1989, of the next accents, the next paragraphs of this speech are elements of a common and coherent Polish policy, because since 1989 it has had one direction. The accents may be different, but they have one direction. On the other hand, you tell us, you tell Poles that there is a significant change. I must therefore say that I will be pleased to note, and we also note in this Chamber, that the primacy of our diplomacy based on the fundamental principles of the UN, the OSCE, the Council of Europe has been confirmed, said Minister Waszczykowski at the outset, also the treaties that bind us, I am thinking of the cohesion of the European Union. He said one more thing, very important, super important at the moment, that the law, the rule of law and the rules of the rule of law dominate and should dominate, should not be pushed down the element of the policy pursued in a forceful way, that is, the law of force. I think that this opinion also applies to internal issues, that the principle of respect for the legal principles of a democratic rule of law is precisely this guiding principle, because this is based on the community of democratic countries of Western Europe, to which we have joined, praise God, after decades of fighting. And that is the foundation of our security and development, and that is what we should be very strong in this Chamber, once again I say, emphasize and respect, not disappointing. What kind of subordinates are you talking about? What kind of subordinate was the Member talking about just now? Does the PiS treat the institutions that we co-finance as aliens just when they protect and confirm these fundamental values? After all, this is also part of our identity, it was very clear. If you do not want to listen to us, please do so, but Mr Długi has made this very clear. I refer, I do not know what to call it, to the statements of a member of the opposition club or supporting club, I do not use the word coalition, because it does not exist formally, but he said very clearly: one cannot put a party policy, one cannot put an internal one above the national interest, above the foreign policy, which concerns the whole nation and our national good, which is Poland. [[Mr Agnieszka Pomaska shows Mr Andrzej Halicki a tablet with the inscription: Minister returned]] Why am I saying this? Because I think that these words about the primacy of the law and the rule of law should be addressed by the Minister, for example. To the president. I think he took it to heart because he was in the O.R. at the time. This is the attitude towards the Constitutional Court, the rightfully elected judges. After all, this is part of the problems we have in the European arena. And if this dialogue between the European institutions, whether the European Union or the Council of Europe, is taking place, it is legal in nature, we have discussed it with President Bernacki in Strasbourg, and on the legal basis this dispute should be resolved and not thrown into a non-existent political thread in this forum. Because this isn't our political dispute. This is an element of checking whether, in fact, the rules we are talking about and which we have signed with our membership are respected. I am thinking of the accession treaty or membership of the Council of Europe. Why am I talking about this? Because regardless of security issues... [[Member Sławomir Nitras shows Mr Andrzej Halicki the tablet with the inscription: Minister went]] The minister's back and he's gone. It's a shame, but we've recorded a passage through the O.R. I am talking about this because the state is basically trying to tell Poles that. A Pole who is injured by courts or feels injured, and who refers to the European Court of Human Rights, is to be called a traitor by us. After all, that's why we started this mechanism, and that's why we're signing it so he can use it. Because fundamental human rights are protected, and we respect democratic order as well. Did the bill we discussed together... I thank Mr Sasin once again for the fact that in our previous term of office we were able to adopt the convention law in the form of the most democratic since 1989 - together, but under the pressure of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights. Is this an act of our national betrayal, or is it really a standard that we should respect? Consider when you use these words in a completely inadequate way to their meanings. Because it is our common interest to build Europe more democratic, precisely in respect of the values that the Minister himself mentioned at the beginning, not to destroy or disarm it. I think it's worth considering. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u59	Thank you. Mr Ireneusz Oda, Kukiz,15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u60	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! - if you can hear me. In his speech, Minister Waszczykowski stated that the government of Prime Minister Beata Szydło would respect the international commitments accepted by the previous government on refugees. Minister, I call on you to break the policy of political correctness in line with the expectations of the European Union and to submit to the interests of Germany. International policy must go down to the level of citizens' interests. This cannot be the politics of the alienated political elite that the previous team led, and what a flagrant example was the speech of former foreign minister Radosław Sikorski, who in Berlin asked Chancellor Merkel to take the lead in the European Union... [[She wasn't there.]] ...saying that we are no longer afraid of German tanks, thus expressing a specific act of servitude. Well, Mrs Merkel took matters into her own hands, invited and brought more than one million immigrants into Europe, forcing the Polish government to accept the quotas of immigrants. Poland is not prepared to accept refugees because it is not possible to verify whether we are dealing with refugees, immigrants or terrorists. Polish society does not want foreign influx We culturally immigrants. If the government has a problem with withdrawing from its predecessors' obligations, it should appeal to the people and draw up a referendum on this matter, which is what the Kukiz club is after.15 The safety of Poles should be the overarching motive of Polish foreign policy. In his speech, the Minister called on Poles, including Polonia living abroad, to remain inactive, intervene and report cases of slandering the good name of Poland, especially on the persistent use of the term Minister, I propose the appointment of an office of the spokesperson of historical truth, whose competence will be among others. suing newspapers, televisions, governments, politicians, etc. persistently using the wording of the Polish death camps. This office should be equipped with an appropriate budget and tools to take effective action in defending Poland's good name in the world. I would also like to point out here that the problem of slandering the good name of Poland is an immanent part of the historical policy pursued by Ukraine, which builds its national identity on flagshipism. The Minister pointed out that the government, by developing good relations with Ukraine, would support it financially while at the same time ensuring the proper use of these funds. Minister, how will you influence Ukraine's loan of PLN 4 billion granted in December to the government of this country not allocated to a lying historical policy against Poland, which is conducted by the Ukrainian state institutions on an internal and international level? During the time of Ukraine's assistance, a multi-thousandth manifestation was organized in Lviv, during which the form of Shuchevych was glorified and the restoration was demanded. [[♪ The bell ♪]] or the connection of Przemyśl to Ukraine. Poland must not miss this. Poland must not react to such facts. Minister, we all want good relations with Ukraine, but Poland, as part of foreign policy, cannot ignore these facts and not react. Poles hope that under your direction Polish foreign policy will take into account the vital long-term interests of the state and the Polish nation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u61	Thank you. Mr Przemysław Czarnecki, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u62	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the honour to refer to the exposé of the Foreign Minister Witold Waszczykowski. The Minister outlined priorities and objectives in the field of Polish foreign policy in 2016. In his over an hour speech, he addressed the whole spectrum of issues related to the effective conduct of foreign policy aimed at increasing the prestige and influence of the Polish state in Europe and thus on tangible benefits for the Polish society and economy. As I am a representative of the youngest generation of Polish parliamentarians, in my speech I would like to pay particular attention to issues that concern my peers, such as the problem of economic emigration of Poles, issues related to scientific scholarships, Erasmus programme. In the next part of the speech I will focus on public diplomacy consisting in shaping social attitudes and public opinion abroad so that they affect the realization of important interests of Poland in the world. It is about public diplomacy using tools and methods outside the area of traditional diplomacy as an area of interstate relations, such as the activity of Polish institutes abroad or support for learning Polish language. Another means of supporting such a policy is the introduction of an effective strategy and cooperation of the institutions of the Polish state with the environments of benevolent people of Poland, such as Polish environments or people who, for other reasons, such as studies in Poland or personal relationships, feel sympathy for Poland and Poland. In 2015, 2320 thousand were in labour emigration from the Central Statistical Office. Poles. This is an alarming and, according to many sources, incomplete number. For years, the main directions of immigration have been the United Kingdom, where at least 700,000 people live. Poles, and Germany, in which almost two of our compatriots live. The worrying fact is that this trend is still increasing. Unfortunately, the actions of the previous government of PO and PSL did not have any positive effects. Despite years of propaganda of success, Poles did not want to come back from the land. The reason for Polish emigration is mainly economic, and it consists of elements such as low wages, poor quality of social care and health care, as well as bad living conditions. It should be noted that in recent years there has been an increase in the migration of people belonging to the so-called. of the middle class. Today more and more Poles are leaving not because they have nothing to live for but because they are looking for a better life. More and more migrants are people with higher education, which means that the investment of society in their education does not, moreover, ultimately build the welfare of other countries. He is pleased that Minister Waszczykowski sees and understands this problem, which he expressed both during his recent visit to Edinburgh and in his speech today. The measures taken by the previous government so far have proved to be far from sufficient. As I have already noted, the main cause of Polish emigration is economic issues, and therefore we cannot expect clear declarations and promises from the Minister of Foreign Affairs. The return of millions of Poles depends not on declarations, but on concrete solutions. The more enjoying the first months of government, Prime Minister Beata Szydło, who is the bearer of a good change. Concrete legislative proposals, such as the 500+ programme, which will really improve the living conditions of many Polish families, announcements of further legislative initiatives expected by Poles, such as the reduction of the retirement age, the increase of the tax-free amount, the new housing programme or the introduction of a minimum hourly rate, are just a few actions of the Polish government, which will be implemented to create a basis for Poles to return to their homeland. The previous PO-PSL government created a return information portal. gov.pl. Yes, the idea of this portal is absolutely right. The database of formalities before and after return to the country may be useful, but let's be honest, the portal itself will not influence the decision of our compatriots to return, unlike such ruling decisions, such as a VAT increase or a leap to PLN 153 billion from OFE. Among the tasks of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the process of returning people from emigration is primarily the information role and coordination of activities of other departments, which, as the latest information points out, is being implemented more and more effectively. However, as the Foreign Minister rightly pointed out, we cannot treat immigration as a problem, but even as an opportunity and a business card of Poland. It is our compatriots who live beyond the borders of the country that can be her best spokespersons. It is the voice of Polonia that can be the best means of conducting public diplomacy, so effectively applied by our partners. This voice should be particularly audible when the good name of Poland and Poles is slandered. All the more so is the clear and clear appeal of the Minister for the activity of our fellow countrymen, especially in matters relating to historical policy, which can also be in itself, and in the case of a country about history as glorious as the history of Poland should be used. The minister's declaration on the development of a network of Polish consultative councils at Polish institutions abroad is all the more important. These councils should support Polish organizations coordinating the activities of Polish media and education outside Poland. These centres are not only carriers of Polish culture and national tradition, but can also be part of the effective conduct of foreign policy. Another important element of conducting the public foreign policy mission is the Polish institutes spread around the world. Currently there are 25 such institutes, whose task is to promote and promote Poland and Poland through our tradition, culture and art. 2016 should be unique in this respect due to several global events. Especially great opportunities and opportunities are associated with the organization by the Polish state of two of them. Both the organisation of events within the European Capital of Culture and the Cracow World Youth Days by my home city of Wrocław are an excellent opportunity to present Poland as an inspiring and significant country in the history of Christianity and Europe. He is pleased that Minister Waszczykowski appreciated the importance of this issue in his exposé. The involvement of the Polish state will be part of what can be termed diplomacy of values and Latin and Christian civilization. A good forecast for the future is that the Minister's exposé also placed a place for historical diplomacy. In this way, as important for the historical identity of the Polish state of the jubilee year, participation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is necessary both in the celebrations themselves and in the promotional action abroad. Therefore, a greater role will rest on Polish institutes, because not only can they, but they have to be a tool for promoting Poland, and thus the efficient conduct of foreign policy. We will try to make effective use of these events for the promotion of Poland in the world. Besides, not only cultural events should be a reason for promoting our country outside its borders, but also meetings such as the NATO summit in Warsaw or the celebration of the 1956 tragedy shared with Hungary should be used for this purpose. In addition to supporting promotional cultural events, Polish institutes should be active cultural centres abroad. In these centres, our native successes of people of culture and art on a global scale should be pierced. It is worth to make them permanent centres for learning Polish. It is very glad that the Minister mentioned that it is worth increasing the availability of Polish language teaching, especially in the case of children of school age. This challenge is not only about the multimillion-dollar economic emigration of the 21st century, but about 20 million ethnically associated with Poland and living outside the borders of our homeland. Let us consider whether Polish institutes should not cooperate more actively with Polish schools or parishes abroad. That's where the embryos of Polishness are. At the moment, they are often left to themselves and cannot count on more support than the Polish government. It is such local initiatives that the Polish public diplomacy will look at in the coming years, and it is good, because it is her that deserves the greatest support. Another important support for both Poles living abroad and public diplomacy missions is the effective educational policy promoted by the Polish government. It consists of both providing various scholarships for Poles living mainly in the East and supporting Polish education abroad. The policy of open doors at Polish universities for people with Polish origins will continue. The Polish government will be open to support for young, talented people with the Polish Charter. We cannot and will not leave ourselves with people of Polish origin. This is not only a moral duty for us, but also an opportunity for the future. Unfortunately, so far the Polish government has not exploited the great potential of Poles and people who live in Poland, who live outside our borders. Not everyone realizes how many influential Poles living abroad can use their potential to build a stronger position of Poland abroad. The authority of many people can be converted into political, economic or cultural success of our country. A coherent strategy for building a strong Poland's image abroad using people having an emotional relationship with Poland, such as representatives of Polonia, people who have contact with Polish language, for example by studying in Poland or people who have relations with Poland through their family connections, is a challenge for the government of Law and Justice. It is a challenge which, I am convinced, Minister Waszczykowski will meet. The Exposé of Minister Waszczykowski is a symptom of good change also in politics, in the field of foreign policy. This change will be characterized by an increase in the importance of Poland on the international stage, support for Polish entrepreneurs looking for new markets or greater respect for the rights of people of Polish origin currently residing abroad. For this change to be effective, we must remember that it must take place with the support of the Polish society, including Polonia. Let's remember we can do this together. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u63	Thank you. Mr Marek Krzakła, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u64	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I have listened with great attention to your exposé and a new attempt to outline foreign policy's tasks. I must say that with regard to your predecessors, looking for positive aspects of your speech, you have confirmed that strong and safe Poland is one of the most important priorities you will be pursuing. Besides, you have raised the issue of security on several occasions - and I think that there is absolute agreement in this Chamber - but it is worrying that in your vision you have put forward the emphasis on the countries with which you want to build alliances. Rather, your wishful thinking is stronger relations with the United States, for which the primary objective is now to fight against the Islamic State, engage in the situation in the Middle East, with Great Britain, which is about to leave the European Union, and with the countries of Central and Eastern Europe. And you could agree, Minister, if you wanted to further develop this cooperation with the Visegrad Group countries, but not at the expense or instead of our good partnership with Germany, with the country that I regret to say, the ministers of the new government are scaring Poles again, referring to the promulgation of the Nazi past, and you, Minister, are trying to make a good face for the wrong game. This question of alliances seems to be crucial. The key question is where Poland will be in 25 years, where Poland will be in 4 years. Who will she cooperate with, and who will be our strategic partner? What will happen to our 25 years of freedom? Will it be multiplied or squandered? You yourself, Minister, have expressed your concerns about the state of our democracy by calling into question the Venice Commission on the Constitutional Court Act. With the definition of the tasks of our foreign policy there was no problem and doubts after 1989. We then set ourselves four objectives: entry into the European Union, entry into NATO, the introduction of free market rules and democracy based on freedom and the rule of law. But you know that nothing is given once and for all. And let me remind you that Germany was the hot advocate of Poland's entry into the European Union, with which 25 years ago we signed a treaty on good neighbourhood and friendly cooperation. This was the consequence of a tedious and difficult reconciliation between our peoples, starting with the letter of the bishops of 1965 with a message: we forgive and ask forgiveness. Minister! Don't you feel that today, after the irresponsible statements of your government's ministers, we are developing the effort of thousands of people for whom the problem of reconciliation with Germany was the meaning of life, and good neighbourly relations were important in order to maintain the unity of the European continent? You mentioned this unity a few days ago in your last interview quoted by The Australian. So, Minister, tell me how exactly you intend to celebrate the June anniversary of 25 years of signing the treaty. How are you going to sum up this work? What really is the place in our relationship with Germany? And I'm not asking about the economy here, because you know that Germany's share of our exports is over 25%, and it's 23%. You know that anyone who wants to harm the German economy is at the same time damaging Poland, because it is a system of connected vessels. It's a shame those in your party don't know that, who are calling for a boycott of German products. Today, Europe faces many challenges, ranging from your security policy, the common energy policy to asylum or migration policy. These are the current fields of cooperation. Minister, tell me what you've been able to agree with your German counterpart, Minister Steinmeier. The Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung says that there is not much outside the courtesy. It is sad, but you had it on your own part when, after the criticisms of some German politicians, but European politicians representing the European Parliament or the European Commission, you called the German ambassador to the rug, and you knew very well that these German politicians did not represent the German government. That's why I wanted to ask you what your idea was to talk to the Germans. The openness and sincerity of the talks you mentioned in the exposé was present in previous years. What action are you going to take with regard to the planned construction of the second thread of the northern pipeline? What arguments are you going to use to ensure that German involvement in the Middle East is not at the expense of Eastern policy? How do you want to convince the Germans to strengthen the Eastern NATO flank? I know you have to take care of the atmosphere when you talk, and that's good, but that's not all. In a word, Minister, to get to the end of what arguments you have to make Germany more European and to continue to treat us as an equal partner who takes responsibility for Europe and does so in the name of the values you mentioned in the exposé, but at the same time taking into account the principle of solidarity? And I'll give you a hint at the end. Take an example from Minister Krzysztof Skubiszewski, whose far-sightedness led to the formation of a Polish-German community of interests. Continue in the name of responsibility for the fate of our country the cooperation programme attached 5 years ago to the joint declaration of both governments, Poland and Germany, the Neighbors and partners, and then it will indeed be so that the convergence protocol will be much greater than the protocol of divergences. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u65	Thank you. Mr Włodzimierz Bernacki, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u66	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On the side of the opposition party, the platform emphasized very strongly... This was done by Mr Schetyn and Mr Trzaskowski, but also by many others. These statements make the allegation that Law and Justice and Minister Waszczykowski have a special role to play in what is happening in European space, with particular emphasis on what is happening in Central and Eastern Europe. Ladies and gentlemen! We have important reasons for thinking this way about Europe, a narrower one: Central and Eastern Europe. The vote, which took place at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on 25 January, is a vote when it was particularly easy for us to have discussions with representatives of such countries as the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Bulgaria, Ukraine, Latvia, Romania, Slovenia, but, ladies and gentlemen, Norway as well as the United Kingdom, Turkey as well as Azerbaijan as Armenia. So why am I emphasising Central and Eastern Europe? Because it's... [[Germany is also in Central and Eastern Europe.]] Thank you very much for your excellent attention. I am talking about those peoples of Central and Eastern Europe that are connected with a similar, similar history. These are nations that have been in Christian Europe for a long time, contrary to this... [[The Germans wanted it, too.]] I would really ask you to stop interrupting, because this is extremely rude... [[I'm sorry.]] ...and I'm surprised you can do such things here. I'm really surprised. These are nations of history in which the issue of independence was particularly important and important. These are nations, in a large part, for example, in modern times, whether under partition or under occupation, or in the space of such powerful powers as the Roman Empire, the Austrian Empire, the Austro-Hungarian Empire or the Russian Empire, but also German territories. These are nations who have had to fight for their freedom, for their independence, for their statehood. These are nations that will soon, because in two years' time, in most cases they will celebrate regaining or gaining independence. These are countries that could have enjoyed this independence for only a dozen years. These are countries that lost their sovereignty again after 1945, under Soviet domination. So if you are asking today why we are talking about Central Europe and why Central Europe is so important and important, then we answer: because the nations are this part of it. Europe has a special sensitivity to independence, sovereignty. These are the nations which, over the centuries, I have mentioned, have also had this deficit, which is so strongly touching and also touching the Polish people, so they did not have their own capital. What is related to the economic development of these countries, those nations in Central Europe, is that most often this capital came from the outside, that these nations - in the past nations and today countries - were treated in this past either as a place of gaining raw materials or as a market. So when you ask why Central and Eastern Europe is important to us, we answer: because this closeness of fate, history in political, economic and religious terms has always been important and important. Let us also remember the cultural sphere, that is, the sphere of language. Most of these nations, which I mentioned, did not create their literary languages - like Poles or Germany - in the 16th century. Most of these nations created their literary languages only in the 19th century. This is perhaps irrelevant and irrelevant for some politicians, but let us remember that literature, which built a sense of identity, built the national memory of these particular nations, is something special in comparison with what is right for Western Europe, and from this separate. We are talking about Central and Eastern Europe, because we see here this sense of bond, this closeness of fate, also proximity to the past. Finally, High Izbo, it is worth paying attention, really, to the way the nation is defined in our Central European culture, completely separate from that in Western European culture. This is a situation in which, for Western Europe and Western Europe, the nation is defined as a subjective community, as a community, or actually an association, a collectiveity, which arises through a social agreement - a social agreement which is primarily of purely formal legal value. Think of our central European thinking about the nation. This definition of a nation has the character of treating the nation as an objective community, i.e. existing independently of our will, an objective community, or a community that has emerged deeply, far in the past of a community of generations, a chain of generations, whose origin is extremely difficult to grasp. This is the definition of a nation as a community that has the character of a community of blood ties. Blood from the blood, bone from the bone. I'm talking about facts, I don't judge these two ways of defining a nation, I'm talking about this distinctness. [[Stanisław Orzechowski - Ruthenus, natione Polonus.]] Thank you for the quote from Stanisław Orzechowski, Mr Orzechowski, but this is a completely different category and here we would have to enter into a discussion about the Republic of Poland, the First Republic, the Republican system, which is quite distant from today's model. [[Okay, but there was something like that.]] It was the Agent Ruthenus, the natione Polonus - it was Stanisław Orzechowski, but it is, so to speak, a fairly distant past. So when we say... Poland's case is unique, perhaps in the context of today's debate it would also be worth mentioning this distinctness, about a certain specific condition, that by building a republic where freedom was the fundamental value, we are We did, but Europe was moving towards absolute monarchy. It's a paradox of history, but let's get back to the point. So this distinctness, this differentness of defining a nation, contrary to appearances, is extremely important and important today, because it can give us the answers to questions about the challenges that Central Europe and the whole Europe are facing. Because what is the real issue, ladies and gentlemen, of these questions and these indications, and of this programme, which you presented to Minister Waszczykowski? High Izbo, this is a presentation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' programme of action, government action, but in a specific context, in a specific political space, a specific international space. There is not one option that could be imposed on all European countries, one model. I recommend, in this respect, I appeal to Montescius, who long ago wrote the Treaty of Laws, where he pointed out that every nation, every nation, has its own spirit of laws. Therefore, certain legal solutions cannot be transferred from one space to the whole of Europe. This is another sensitivity, these are other objectives that are already defined in direct policy programmes. So, returning to a point that is important and important to us, Minister Waszczykowski, speaking about the main and fundamental objectives of Polish foreign policy, tried to show what is right and results directly from Polish specificities. So when we talk about tasks which are put up by Polish foreign policy, this context seems extremely important and important here. We cannot put this context and these conditions appropriate for Polish foreign policy under one attic - the attic of political correctness. Because with this political correctness, in fact, during the debate at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, we all had the opportunity to confront each other, where what the opposition spoke about today and treated it quite lightly, i.e. this thread about cyclists and vegetarians, was one of the strongest arguments that were used during this debate by the representative of the socialist party in Sweden. So it's actually pretty psychic. So we must not give in to this dictatorship of political correctness and one model of definition. On the one hand, I have been trying to demonstrate that we are dealing with a specific characteristic for this European space, Western Europe and this new Europe, countries that aspire to the European Union or are part of Europe in a cultural dimension, but have their own specific characteristics. This is really important to us as those who will build this relationship and try to influence these great players within the European Union. What is important is also what is worth paying attention to. Here I am sending to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, to Mr.Waszczykowski a great request that these objectives, which have been so well defined, be implemented at many levels. Firstly, at the level of, indeed, government or the level of action appropriate to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, but it is also important that these actions to achieve the objectives so spectacular be implemented within the European Parliament, but also within the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. But also, and this is important, as part of the activities and functioning of bilateral groups. All these levels are important and important. This foreign policy, which is implemented by our citizens and implemented at the level of scientific cooperation, is also important. It seems that all these levels are important and important, because they allow really to reach these groups and those, I would say, decision-making centres, which are often treated by us as insignificant or insignificant. Finally, in conclusion, what should also sound like, and could not sound so strongly from the foreign minister Mr.Waszczykowski. This concerns a phenomenon that we call migration. High Seym, this phenomenon is worth comparing with phenomena that have already occurred in our part of the world, which took place many centuries ago. These are phenomena that resulted from the great journey of peoples. We stand in such a situation that when we preserve what is right for our civilization, the Christian values that the Minister spoke of here, and at the same time what is important and important, namely the Greek and Roman philosophy, but above all the foundation of Roman law, but first of all, we recognize that, alongside the positive law, this wonderful Roman law, alongside the ius civilis, there is something else we call lex aeterna, or eternal law or natural law, when our legal order in the Republic of Poland will be order, as in other European countries, recognising the superiority of natural law as a foundation, then only then will we be able to resist or think with great optimism about the future, about our civilisation surviving. If our civilization, if Europe, in the dimension of these relations between states, between nations, gets into actions that I associate with only one term, such a Bolshevik-Soviet one, then we can really fear for our future, and so with the imposition of one pattern of political correctness, which throws out any axiology, if that happens, then we can really fear for our future. Why did I talk so much about Central and Eastern Europe? Because in Central and Eastern Europe, because of the specifics I was talking about, so this separate, different treatment of the nation as an objective community, it's a model, I know, completely conservative, that's how it was, that was our history, that's our fate. If we compare it with this definition of the nation, then we will understand that we are becoming the same kind of barrier or space that will guarantee Europe a sense of security from entering this no-ideal space, and right for Western Europe, this great mass of immigrants, who, after all we know, do not express a great desire to assimilate. High Izbo! If we appeal to the great historian, philosopher Arnold Toynbe, we will understand that if we carry out these demands that Minister Waszczykowski spoke of, we will support them on a very precise, defined system of values, if we use Central European solidarity, we can not only block and hinder the influx of what we call an external proletariat, what Toynbee called an external proletariat, but we will actually prevent what he calls an internal proletariat. This may not be very often accepted and accepted in Parliament, but I have allowed myself to take these comments so that you will look again at this problem concerning Europe, including Central and Eastern Europe, from our perspective, from the perspective of Poland and those for whom such categories as independence, as well as sovereignty, but also freedom, are fundamental values. I'll allow a little bit more digression here. What struck me - Mr Halicki can confirm this - what struck me in Strasbourg was the fact that Poles were not asked whether freedom, equality, justice or fundamental values were being implemented in Poland, only that dictatorship was being built in Poland at that moment. I have really had a great desire to tell friends from Western Europe that this category, which we know as freedom, was the foundation and basis of the uprising of the First Republic, that really the First Republic could be and was a model for the whole of Europe, only from this pattern. That's when they just didn't use it. Why am I talking about this? High Izbo, I am talking about this because what strikes in relations with the representatives of old Europe is a kind of condescendingness, that is, treating those who come from Central and Eastern Europe as those who need to be taught how to use a knife and fork. That is why it seems - I am coming back to this issue, the comment I have made towards the Ministry of Foreign Affairs - that we need to do a great deal in order, through further levels of international activity, i.e. at the government, ministerial level, within the European Union, the European Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and bilateral groups, as well as scientific cooperation, exchange of students, to do everything to make this image, this way of thinking about us just change. I'd also like to say thank you, thank you, thank you... [[Thank you for your patience.]] [[Oh, sir, there's nothing to get attached to.]] Exactly. [[Don't be pinchy...]] [[I wanted to be...]] You know, if... [[Voice from the Chamber: Oh, Mr...]] I'd like to thank you. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Firstly, I would like to thank my colleagues from the Kukiz club15, who have very much supported us in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Secondly, I would like to thank the Modern Representative, although I regret that he merely abstained and did not vote against rejecting what is involved in the debate or about the debate on Poland. I want to thank the colleagues who supported us. We really created one delegation in this matter, and it was for me. It's a really great experience and a great experience. Once again here I would like to thank my friends from Bulgaria, friends from Hungary, Latvia, Romania, Slovenia, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Ukraine, but also the United Kingdom, Turkey, Azerbaijan and Armenia for supporting us in the debate and supporting us during the vote. It is important to build cooperation and to build positive relations between those who have a history. I believe that we have not only the past, but also similar political status, legal status, but also what is related to the evolution of political and legal systems, with the recent evolution. I also believe that what the peoples of Europe have in common is, above all, what is related to our future. After this experience in Strasbourg, I look to the future with calmness, with this addition in the form of an exposé, which was given a few hours ago by Minister Waszczykowski. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u67	Thank you. Mr Tomasz Lenz, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u68	Minister! High Izbo! In your speech, you often talked about security and the neighborhood. Of course, these matters are inseparable. This is the nearest neighbourhood, especially the countries with which we are bordering, I understand as our strategic interest. Despite the frequent criticisms of Minister Sikorski, whom you have cultivated, today you declare the continuation of the Eastern Partnership. That's commendable, Minister. You know how to reflect. However, in relation to what you have just said, after Mr Tyszkiewicz's speech, I will say, Minister, that the Eastern Partnership is not over. You're talking about continuing. Countries such as Ukraine have a long way to go before they have the chance to become members of the European Union. This road depends on themselves, depends on Ukraine, on the reforms and changes it will make. Majdan showed the Ukrainians' will, but the road is long, and the Eastern Partnership is an indirect project for membership if the Ukrainians take their chances. You say the Eastern Partnership is a German project. In fact, it was reported by Polish and Swedish foreign ministers. And if he were German, Minister, does that mean he'd be angry or unacceptable? Mr. Minister, you're gonna have to take it down a notch. Your predecessors were able to build a good relationship with the Western Neighbor, and you have a clear problem with that. You said that your actions would be determined by respect for human rights in the area of the democratic world. May we alone, Minister, not set a bad example in this House. The introduction of a full visa-free movement for Ukrainians, Moldovans and Georgians will be a success of our Polish Eastern policy launched and previously implemented by the Ministers of the Civic Platform. In the face of Belarus, our policy has been changing for years, depending on who President Lukashenka wants at the moment to obtain credit or political support in order to remain in office. The Eastern Partnership policy is treated by the Belarusian authorities only as an economic project. The small border movement between Poland and Belarus depends only on the signature of President Lukashenka, who has all the documents. He hasn't signed it in years. Let's not think he'll do it anytime soon. Azerbaijan and Armenia, the countries of the Eastern Partnership, are not interested in the Eastern Partnership and integration with the European Union, which are in conflict with the war on Nagorno-Karabakh and under the strong influence of the Kremlin. Relations with Belarus, our neighbour, are more important here, but our opportunities are limited by the neighbour's will. You said today that your policy would not be conflicting, but assertive. Then we have two assertive states to each other, Minister. It's a little dangerous. It's not gonna happen at the end of the day. I hope the drop digs the rock. The declaration of support for Ukraine in its pursuit of standardisation, stabilisation is natural. In this respect, the Platform will be consistent as it has for the previous 8 years. He's our strategic partner who's undergoing a transformation, just like we were in the 1990s. All the more reason to understand Ukraine's needs. What is very important is that today Poland and Poles are the best seen country and nation in Ukraine. Let's use it. Let's build a lasting relationship for the future. It is certainly also encouraged by young Ukrainians taking up studies in Poland and by Ukrainian citizens in positions for which we do not have our own qualified employees and specialists. It is worth respecting the sensitivity of our neighbours here, because they are not refugees, as Prime Minister Szydło said in Brussels, but temporarily residing in Poland citizens of Ukraine. And not a million, because it's an approximate number of multiple-use visas that we've issued to the whole Schengen area, which gives us the opportunity to move across the continent. Let us stick to the facts so that our Ukrainian partners do not feel touched. Our neighbourhood is also Visegrad Group, although it turned out that Budapest was the most important country in this group. Jarosław Kaczyński would like to take an example of the actions of Prime Minister Orban, which give the European Union a headache. I hope that this infatuation will not be a long romance, and PiS leader Jarosław Kaczyński without the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister will no longer meet in border guesthouses. Minister! Convince your leader that Poland should not be ridiculed. Since 25 years of Visegrad cooperation have passed, it means that many previous governments have successfully used this format to build good neighbourly relationships. It is not appropriate to meet one of the members of the Visegrad Group in angles. Let's take the Czechs and Slovaks seriously, get together. It builds trust. If you know this word because trust is contrary to the assertiveness you declare in your actions, let us seek our interests, but let us also be good neighbours, because we probably expect the same from others. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Joachim Brudziński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u69	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Sławomir Nitras.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u70	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! I was very interested in your speech. After all, this is the first speech of the Polish minister after a fundamental political change in our country. In this case, the most important thing is to highlight the continuity of Polish politics, awareness of the continuation of fundamental foreign policies, compromise of fundamental political forces on the most important objectives. In your speech, you could see the emphasis on continuity. It wasn't easy, but you could, for example. on NATO. Based our doctrine on strengthening the Alliance and consistently increasing the Alliance's activity in our part Europe is what we definitely have in common. I also noticed not without satisfaction that you were the first politician of the new government to admit that in Poland a gasport was built. It's an important declaration, and I'm glad you noticed it during such an important speech. In general, however, this continuation is far too little. In time, you can hope to draw more boldly from the achievements of your predecessors. The experience of real politics will verify your radical courts. Unfortunately, today you are giving our allies a signal that you are radically changing Polish politics - in the region and Europe. Today you have made a loud and critical diagnosis of all the diseases of the European Union. You presented it as an organism built on false assumptions that led to its development in undesirable directions in which individual parts The Union cannot work together, and it is focused on pursuing selfish ambitions, of course, at the expense of its neighbours. This is, Minister, a false image, and today you have put yourself in the role of being external to the Union. You spoke as if you knew the alternative world for Poland, as if there was a possibility of leaving the Union and securing Poland in a different way. This is a mistake that can affect our future. That is why this debate is so important. You dream of a Europe of four freedoms, without obligations. Is it possible, in your opinion, for a world where people travel freely, for goods to be transported, for work, for services where there are no financial barriers between countries, and at the same time for each country to have a different pension system, for a different level of social benefits, which are not compatible with taxes, where there is no basic common economic governance that you have criticised, where banks are subject to 28 different regulations, where companies operating in one single market have different regulations in each country? Can there be a common market and a different policy towards external partners? You can't do that, Minister. Poland, contrary to what you think, has not entered a free trade area that extends from Lisbon to Helsinki. Poland has joined the European Union and the European Union is also a political project. And please, Minister, don't let us off this project. [[Applause]] By reducing the Union to only four freedoms - I guarantee you - you will take away these four freedoms from Polish citizens. I listen carefully and try, Minister, to understand this particular, unique role of the United Kingdom. Of course relations with Great Britain are very important. But do you really hope that, contrary to its centuries-old tradition, Britain will not see us? only through the prism of a part of the larger region? It needs us as partners in implementing its own governance project in Europe, and this governance is traditionally isolationist. We in turn need an integrated Europe. You say that you have a common perception of European problems with the British, and you say this on the eve of the referendum about the UK's withdrawal from the Union. And what will happen, Minister, God forbid, if the British leave? Would you repeat those words? Will you continue to have European perception with the British? I wonder what kind of signal you wanted to send to our partners, our European partners and the world. In my opinion, this signal is deeply anti-European rhetoric and I am very concerned about it. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u71	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Michael Kaminski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u72	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I may not go as far as Prime Minister Gowin, who wrote on his Twitter page at the beginning that it is a real intellectual pleasure to listen to you... [[Ha, ha, ha.]] ...but there's definitely a proverb: what America, like Marilyn Monroe. But it certainly wasn't a bad thing to do. It wasn't bad, and there was this gigantic struggle between a diplomat, a good, experienced diplomat and a politician. Wherever you have to pay political tribute to your political group, there's where that good diplomat ends. And yet no one better than you, and your career, shows that Polish foreign policy should continue and continue. You served as a diplomat in many Polish governments: the left, AWS, and also part of the Civic Platform. Today you are Minister of PiS. Good. Your evaluation as a diplomat has always been very high. I would like to say that it is a good thing that you, although with some timidity, have mentioned this continuation, but I would also like to say that the context which is given to you is given to you by your colleagues. This context is also given by all propaganda that accompanies foreign policy. I want to, because I don't have much time to concentrate on one thread, the thread that has been moved here many times. This is the German thread. Well, there is a German word: Schadenfreude. And I am surprised that so many of you have Schadenfreude from the fact that in Germany today there are very strong Eurosceptical, anti-immigrant accents. I can't imagine how Polish patriots can enjoy the fact that in Germany they gain influence on German politics, on German nationalists' public opinion. Because if we remember what the founding fathers of the European Union wrote, they said that the European Union is also to make sure that this great country, and we do not escape from the fact that Germany is a great country, to put in the European context that Germany should be included in European integration, that the potential of this nation should not serve - as has been the case many times in the past - to destroy Europe, not serve wars, but serve Europe to be better and stronger. Are Germany a difficult partner? Yes, they are. And rightly speaking, Minister, I can only applaud that it is necessary to speak honestly with the Germans, also about Poles living in Germany, also about how. Unfortunately, however, there is tolerance to anti-Polish jokes or anti-Polish speeches in Germany. Yes, that must be said, but we must not flee from this context, which is that Germany is our very important economic partner and that Germany is a very important part of Europe. And this is what Radosław Sikorski was talking about in this speech, which you did not understand, and which you criticize. I wanted to say, Minister, that the more diplomats there are in you, the better it is for Polish foreign policy. The more PiS policy in you, the worse it is for this foreign policy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u73	Thank you. I will ask Mr Marian Zembala to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u74	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This minute requires a very brief reflection. Firstly, it is good that in this broad statement there was also an expression of what is a characteristic of Europeanity. That is, by learning from the better, we create better Poland and change it. So, for this europeanness, Minister, I thank you very much, especially as part of this europeanness in science and medicine, which I represent, is the rich experience we enjoy, the countries of Europe and the world. And the second reflection. We share our experience and I want to tell you that thanks to the fact that in 20 centers of Ukraine and Russia we train, operate, help, save lives, in months, weeks our Polish companies, banks, create a new climate for building. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you for these actions that serve well. One last reflection. Ladies and gentlemen, art is always a kind of catharsis. And remember, quite carefully with such a hasty assessment and The man who taught me sensitivity and Professor Religa was Marek Edelman, and Lili Goldstein, who worked with us in Zabrze. Art, each, is supposed to stimulate a man to do good. Thanks again for the whole day, because we've all become so much richer together. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u75	Thank you very much, sir. High Izbo, I would like to inform you that over 100 parliamentarians have joined the questions. I don't see any more volunteers and calls, I'm closing the list of speakers. It is time for the question to be asked in connection with the agenda so tense today and so many MEPs - I can already see 120 - I am setting it for 1 minute and very cordially, ladies and gentlemen, to try to fit in this minute, because unfortunately I will be rigorously guarding this time. Mr Ostrowski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome, sir. [[Mr. Marshal will tell the others to get closer to the podium. It'll be quicker.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u76	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is becoming increasingly important in international relations a place of historical narrative. It has ceased to be a matter of our well-being or our sense of historical justice. In today's world, which is very sensitive to the image of countries and societies, it is increasingly a political instrument and has little to do with historical truth. This country, which can impose its narration on the international arena, is gaining an advantage. So it is much easier to criticize or even put a country under the hierarchy, about which it is known in advance that it is accused of xenophobia, anti-Semitism, fascism or is co-responsible for genocide than a country that has a well-established picture of democracy with a large historical record. One of such words, often used by the media, politicians, as well as by scientists, is the Polish death camp or the Polish extermination camps. Unfortunately, we also hear this often in the German media. I don't have to tell you how lying and disgraceful that term is, [[♪ The bell ♪]] how much it hurts the memory of millions of Poles. Time is running out, so the question is for the Foreign Minister. Will and how the Ministry of Foreign Affairs react and react to the untruthful...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u77	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u78	...frams of the Polish death camps? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u79	Thank you kindly. [[Do I get 17 more seconds too?]] Yes, Madame, you will, but I hope that you will be able to fit in a minute, knowing the briefness of your speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u80	I'll try. Minister, I have a problem with your speech today because I don't know how to pick up diplomatic, Eurosceptic generals. It's not you either, Minister, running foreign policy. Foreign policy objectives were outlined in a pension in Niedzica, without your participation, even without the participation of the Prime Minister, with the participation of the President of Jarosław Kaczyński and the Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. So anti-European foreign policy a la PiS from the Green Sheep. High Izbo, there are no major foreign policy managers during the debate, so just a few general questions. Why are you weakening Poland's position in the European Union overnight? Why do you satisfy the Kremlin, disturb Kiev and surprise Europe, destroying the Polish brand and 26-year-old achievements of Poles and Poles, Poland's achievements? Why do you want Poland to be great among small and less significant? Why don't you want to be a partner? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And still be equal among the big ones? Minister, foreign policy can be hidden under the barricades of words, but facts are facts, as the classic, your president said. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u81	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Club15. I don't see your MP. In that case, Mr Witold Zembaczyński will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u82	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I listened attentively to your speech, and unfortunately I am disappointed in your speech. At the moment, your primary task is to restore a good image of Poland, a good image of Poland among our European partners and restore our credibility. Those irresponsible statements that really referred to the guilty vegetarians or cyclists do not give us a good opinion. Right now, many of my friends who live abroad are asking us what's going on here. The same question is also asked by journalists, and it is not only from Germany, which you do not like so much. I was just talking to a journalist from Lithuania who just came here to write an article on irresponsible Polish foreign policy. Minister, I would like to tell you that from the opposition you can count on some support, but only in those rational decisions that will restore Poland's position as a reliable partner, not a partner who throws words on the wind - from a nuclear bomb to vegetarians. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u83	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Marek Sawicki, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u84	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In his speech, the Minister devoted less than 12 minutes to economic issues. In this speech in the economic part you spoke about the necessity of economicization of Polish diplomacy. And thank you for that, because it's a good continuation of what we've been doing for the past eight years. I would like to point out that with the cooperation of the Ministries of the Economy, Agriculture and Foreign Affairs, Polish agri-food products were able to increase their exports from EUR 10.5 billion in 2007 to over EUR 25 billion for the previous year. I would like to ask if this will continue, further developed, because in a few places we have appointed new agricultural advisors, there was a plan for the next four embassies and further agricultural advisors. Without the development of economic diplomacy, Poland's position in the European Union cannot be expanded. You also mentioned a successful one. [[♪ The bell ♪]] President's visit to China. I would like to stress that this visit has been prepared by the previous government for many years, through a good relationship and a good exchange of experience. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u85	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Richard Galla.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u86	Mr. Marshal! Minister! As I said, in June we will celebrate the 25th anniversary of the signing of the Polish-German Treaty with good neighbourhood and friendly cooperation. I would like to ask the Minister who on the part of the Polish government is responsible for preparing these celebrations and at what stage of these preparations we are. I would also like to ask who is coordinating the work of the Round Table from the Polish government today, because I have heard that these tasks, which were in the Ministry of Administration and Digitalization, were probably transferred to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The second question I will ask will be about the agreement that was concluded between Poland and Germany on the maintenance of the border area of Oder. As we know, this agreement has been born for a very long time. Fortunately it is, today we see the implementation of this agreement, because, for example, icebreakers, which flow after Oder, are already Polish-German and break these ice creams. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Breakers, breakers.]] Yes, ma'am. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would like to ask what implementation looks like in the section on the annex to this agreement, because it is very important and entails some funding for these tasks. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u87	Thank you. Mrs Agata Borowiec. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u88	Thank you. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Free Poland today has a special responsibility and responsibility towards these people, or their descendants, who in difficult historical moments, especially after the aggression of the Soviet Union against Poland in September 1939, were forced to leave the land of their ancestors and settle in the area of the former Soviet Union. Sources show that between 1940 and 1941, between 700,000 were deported to the East. and 1600 thousand. Poles. In 2001 Poland made a promise to Polish repatriates by means of the Law on repatriation that, after fulfilling certain requirements, they would be able to return to their homeland. Unfortunately, that word was not fully respected. The report of the Supreme Audit Chamber of September 2014 clearly indicates numerous shortcomings in the implementation of Poland's immigration policy in relation to foreigners declaring Polish origin. On average, for one year there are 20 invitations addressed to repatriates by Polish municipalities. Let me remind you that in Poland we have 2479 municipalities. [[♪ The bell ♪]] On average, an entry visa is expected for about 8 years. So it is not surprising that our fellow countrymen are very discouraged, they do not believe that this historic task for the Polish state will be accomplished. Minister! Will the government keep the 100-day deadline to amend the repatriation bill...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u89	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u90	...and what are the main assumptions of this amendment? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u91	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Paweł Bańkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u92	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Minister, you spoke today in your speech about the special relations our country has with Britain. I have a question: What is the government's final position on benefits for citizens of the European Union working in the UK, including Poles? Can you, Minister, ensure that it will not be the subject of any trade, even in the context of the deployment of NATO bases in our country? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u93	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Adam Andruszkiewicz, Kukiz Club15. Absent. In that case, I would ask Mrs Monica Rosa to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u94	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have three questions. The Minister spoke about the new European instruments for the Eastern Partnership. I wanted to ask: What exactly are these new European instruments supposed to be? The second question concerns a strategic issue, namely the diversification of oil supplies. I wanted to ask you about the plan of Poland in this matter, the government, especially in the context of the agreement with Rosnieft. Third question, energy union. The Minister said that he expected an ambitious legislative package in the area of gas security in the coming weeks. I would like to ask for information on what lies in detail under the name: the legislative package. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u95	Thank you, Member. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u96	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask, Minister, what will you justify to our partners in the European Union numerous anti-, sceptical speeches, gestures that have come out of your political environment, the political environment that supports you in recent years. I am referring here to the words of Prof. Pavłowicz, which define the flag of the European Union in a specific way. I am referring here to numerous words and banners, which could be observed on demonstrations organized by the Law and Justice. This will undoubtedly not facilitate these relationships. But I wanted to ask: As an experienced diplomat, what kind of person do you have the idea of explaining the cases I mentioned? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u97	Please take the floor of Mr Józef Leśniak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u98	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Poland is a country with an exceptional geographical location. Therefore, one of the priorities of Polish foreign policy is our activity within the Visegrad Group, which is a special form of regional cooperation between Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Hungary. It is a good thing that the current government has decided to engage more in Visegrad cooperation, achieving in a short time the concrete positive results mentioned by the Minister in his speech. On the other hand, it is no secret to anyone that, recently, due to the armed conflict in Ukraine, the immigration crisis has shown some discrepancies in four-sided cooperation. Minister! Given the above conditions, I would like to ask about the condition of the Visegrad Group, [[♪ The bell ♪]] new challenges, whether or not they threaten the effective functioning of the Visegrad Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u99	Thank you, sir. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Margaret Płępek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u100	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Why has Polish funds been transferred from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the Senate? Shouldn't the Polish budget be in one place, i.e. the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which, unlike the Senate, has the appropriate competence to do so, the entire department, Polish consuls who know the real situation of Polonia and its needs in the various countries of the world? He manages funds through a system of transparent competitions, in accordance with the Public Finance Act and the Act on Public Activity and Volunteering. It does not politicise the process of redistribution of funds, which is extremely important. These three principles are not met by the Senate today. Then why the change? Is it again? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Another good change from the PiS? Thank you. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Return to sources, Member, 20 years old, the entire Polish office. You've ruined everything.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u101	Please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Sitarski, Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u102	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Please present the current involvement of the Polish State in the work of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe in the area of security in Europe in the context of possible internal conflicts resulting from the lack of a coherent European Union policy on the very large migration of the population from the countries of Afghanistan, Syria and Iraq. Please mention the current cases which Polish diplomatic bodies are conducting with partners from the Visegrad Group and the Nordic-Baltic States. I would also ask you to point out the issues in question, where positions are common, and where your members represent different views. Finally, how does the Council of Ministers respond to artificial interferences, pseudo-assessments of rating agencies of the political and economic situation in Poland? The victim of the same manipulation was Portugal a few years ago. Minister, military security: yes, but pay attention to economic and economic security. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u103	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Adam Szapka.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u104	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! One of the most important priorities of Polish foreign and security policy is the Eastern Partnership. This problem has been sacrificed by the Minister in his speech by two sentences. Therefore, my question: What is Poland's vision of the development of the Eastern Partnership? How does Poland want to convince our EU partners that this project is really important and should have an ambitious budget within the European Union? Who are you going to talk to about this project? Because all you said was Sweden, Finland, Lithuania and Romania. On this subject, I would also like to ask the Minister to explain to the Kukiz Club15 what it means to make the credit line available by the National Bank of Poland of EUR 1 billion, because I have the impression that the Kukiz Club15 does not understand it at all. I wanted to ask one more question about the diversification of energy sources, because the Minister said so in his speech. How is the agreement between Orlen and Rosnieft to this priority of Polish foreign policy? [[I'm just correcting it.]] [[Voice from the hall: But for yourself or for the club?]] [[I'd like to correct, because here...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u105	This is not possible at the moment, sir, and there are no corrections. [[Voice from the room: There are no corrections.]] Please take the floor of Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u106	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a practical question. For several years preparations for the construction of a new border crossing in the east of Malhowice - Niżowice, i.e. at the height of Przemyśl. At the moment, all legal matters have been dealt with. [[Voice from the room: No.]] I have a question: Is there any chance that this passage will be built? This is an important transition, because there the village was practically artificially divided, there is a border, and there are roads. However, there is no interest here, I see, at the moment, the authorities, apart from the local - President Przemyśl, the old-fashioned local authorities. The budget has not been secured either. Therefore, I have a question: Will the Ministry of Foreign Affairs support the construction of new transitions in the east, and especially in Niżowice? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u107	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Jarosław Krajewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u108	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Foreign policy in 2016 in the context of the current challenges facing Europe, such as the migration crisis, the armed conflict between Russia and Ukraine, energy security, requires us to implement the Intermarine policy consistently as a continuation of the idea of the dead. President Lech Kaczyński. Today, the regional policy of cooperation between countries from the Baltic Sea to the Adriatic Sea and the Black Sea, from the Visegrad Group to the Council of Baltic Sea States, is a key priority in shaping Polish foreign policy. It is worth returning to the implementation of the 2009 diplomatic action when you are asleep. President Lech Kaczyński signed a declaration on the Polish-Romanian strategic partnership in Bucharest. Minister, I ask you to answer the following, very important, question: What is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs going to do to strengthen and develop the Intermarine concept? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u109	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Andrzej Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u110	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We are used to the fact that the PiS government and its Members have been very critical and critical of what the previous government has done, and here we have been hearing a slightly different position for two days. First. Yesterday, two days ago, Minister Szyszko said that after visiting the COP Poland conference in Paris as a country, I quote: as a country of great success. [[Applause]] Today we also heard from Minister Waszczykowski that diversification of energy supplies is arranged and proof of this is put into service in December. What we've heard about it, we know. My question about energy policy is addressed to the Minister: What will the government do to actually protect itself from the influence of Russia and the construction of Nord Stream II? Is the Nabucco pipeline in the plan? [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u111	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Tomasz Jaskola. I don't see your MP. In that case, I would ask Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz to speak. You don't have an MP either. In that case, Mr Mieczysław Kazimierz Baszko, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u112	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Minister for Foreign Affairs stated that foreign policy, in particular eastern foreign policy, is a very important priority. The Minister stated that he had said that new border crossings had been opened. I ask: How many new border crossings do you plan to open? Please list the names of these points, move on. This applies in particular to the Polish-Belarusian border. The Minister has strongly emphasised the issue of an open policy to the East, so I am asking a question. By 13 December 2015, the Grodno-Białystok-Ełk train ran. I ask that the connection of Grodno - Białystok - Warsaw be launched as soon as possible, because it would be more effective, and I do so on behalf of all organizations in Belarus, associations of Poles, and also on behalf of the Church. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u113	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Daniel Milewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u114	Mr. Marshal! Minister! It is rare that what is international is the subject of such everyday conversations between Poles. But the topic of the European emigration crisis has come under the roof of our homes and has become the concern of millions of our citizens. Do you believe that the temporary mechanism for the relocation of migrants is working effectively, which can help to address the emigration crisis effectively? And most importantly. Are we in such a situation as to accept migrants that we must fulfil the commitments of the previous government? If so, will we take the opportunity to help those who are the greatest victims of a bloody storm raging in the sands of the Middle East? I mean, of course, Christians persecuted in the most cruel way. It's them, not economic migrants, who need our help with brotherly love. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u115	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Mark Grunkle.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u116	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! There was already a question about the anniversary of the Treaty on good neighbourhood and friendly cooperation. I would like to ask you about intergovernmental consultations between Poland and Germany. Are they planned? Will this treaty anniversary be included in this consultation? And what are you going to do with the round table? It's been a couple of months. The round table was a place to solve difficult cases. Will his work continue in the last few months, or will you, as you mentioned, just start this remanent and the round table will not be operational until after June? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u117	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Wojciech Bakun.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u118	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have two questions, and I'd like you to answer them. not only in front of a handful of Members gathered here, but above all in front of our compatriots, compatriots living both in Poland and those who are looking for bread outside our country. An employee of your department, Mr Przemysław Żurawski a.k.a. Grajewski, as you know, stated in one of his statements that it is not important whether the loan we are granting to Ukraine - I remind you, it is 4 billion PLN - will be repaid. As he said: he will give, he will not give, it is worth investing in holding back Russia. Is your resort really that light about spending public money? Don't you think such a statement is against the interests of our country? What is the form of securing this loan? After these words, I dare say that such security was not foreseen by the state. Second question. This time it is about your speech, repeated by Mr. Żurawski, aka Grajewski, that it is worth sacrificing the interest of Poles living in the UK in exchange for supporting the British in our efforts to build NATO in Poland. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Of course, we do not question the need for such bases, but never, Minister, should you put the welfare of your citizens at stake.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u119	Mr President, you are very welcome to move towards the end.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u120	I'm asking for an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u121	Thank you. You asked for the vote, Minister Waszczykowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u122	Mr. Marshal, only three seconds, because that's one question in turn. Poland has granted, offered - and this is a loan offered by the previous government - EUR 100 million. Please don't imagine... Don't pull out, I don't know how, some loan of 4 billion that wasn't there, there isn't and probably won't be. Please do not refer to such things, do not create questions on the basis of some false premises that are drawn from nowhere. That's one question in turn. If anybody wants to ask you a similar question or a similar question, please don't ask me that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u123	Thank you very much, Minister. In that case, I would ask the next Member, Mr Michał Stasiński, to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u124	Dear Marshal, Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The times we have are that the power of the state in the world is not determined by history, merit, declarations or monuments, but by a strong economy. We therefore need strong economic diplomacy. It is up to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Economic Affairs and Development to manage trade and investment promotion departments within embassies and consulates around the world. I have questions about that. First of all, do you foresee organisational changes in the functioning of WPHI? I'm asking because the current system paralyzes their activities. The dependence on the ambassador from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Economic Affairs makes it impossible to establish clear criteria, and this is inefficient. Will the reformed WPHI be co-financed? Their budgets are definitely insufficient at the moment. Will WPHI also be staffed by competent employees, those who at least speak the language of the country in which they work? It's not a rule at the moment. Fourthly, are you ready, Minister, for the challenge? [[♪ The bell ♪]] by ensuring that our ambassadors are responsible for carrying out measurable economic and economic tasks in connection with the development of Polish exports in a given market? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u125	Thank you. I ask the floor of Mrs Dorota Arcisewska-Mielewczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u126	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The German Ministry of Foreign Affairs rejected the request of the Association of Poles in Germany to grant, restore the status of minorities, claiming that Poles did not meet the conditions necessary to recognise as a minority because they never constituted a minority, including in the years involving the governments of the Weimar Republic and after the collapse of the republic, until 1940. Are you going to react to this and argue about it? Polonia has an office at the German Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to which de facto Polish organizations do not have access, and office clearing is slowly becoming impossible. All delegations of the President of the Office must be described, etc., which reminds us of the inspection of the services. No funding for the Polish House in Bochum. At the beginning of 2015, it was not yet clear whether there would be funding for 2016 and 2017 and still presents itself as a flagship project. Porta Polonica Portal. Do you, Minister, intend to check this portal? I ask because the German side has chosen a program board that implements and sustains stereotypes about Poles anti-Semites and losers [[♪ The bell ♪]] Szczypiorski style, Róża Luxembourg. Are you going to talk about the claims and the return of the assets that the Gestapo has yet to assess for 7?8 million brands, along with the lost profits? Why a treaty about good neighborhoods and friendships...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u127	Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u128	...is not implemented and will you...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u129	...thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u130	...he spoke to the German side because the round table is an apparent attempt...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u131	Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u132	...the implementation of the provisions...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u133	...please proceed to the end. Thank you, Member. [[Mr. Marshal, can you do that? Is he gonna make it?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u134	...and play on time? Please answer the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u135	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Mark Owl.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u136	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We did not learn from the Minister's speech what the real and most important economic interests of Poland are. Apart from the elevated passwords, we have not heard what and where is the most important business of ours. In this speech there was a lack of a look at the role played by Polish companies abroad in building the image of Poland and Poles, as well as the expansion, also economic, of Polish business abroad. You have not devoted much space and time to the role that Polish companies can play in promoting Poland and its achievements on the international stage. The biggest hit of Polish exports, our healthy and unrivalled food and its growing sales, which even the Russian embargo did not harm, did not deserve even the word of appreciation. But I am not particularly surprised, because the first 100 days of the PiS government are nothing more than a series of unfortunate actions and statements, an image failure that you have given Poland and Poles on the international stage. Poland has worked for the last quarter of the century [[♪ The bell ♪]] an excellent image of the European primacy, the leader of social, economic and political change. In a short time, you put Poland in a dumb bench. And that, unfortunately, is a true measure of the effectiveness of your diplomacy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Marek, don't be so hard on yourself. Who writes this to you? Who writes this to you?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u137	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Ireneusz Odna, Kukiz15. I don't see your MP. In that case, Mr Paweł Kobyliński.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u138	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the framework of the expansion of the Polish network of diplomatic institutions intended to go only on quantity or also on quality? I have this question: Will the attitude of Polish consular officials towards the Polish citizen change, his position from patent to client? Here's an example from the Embassy in Bangkok. Complaints and applications shall be accepted every first Wednesday of the month. Well, it's not really like that. Here's another question. How is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs going to promote Polish companies in China? This is currently the coldest market and the most developmental market, also for Polish companies. What actions of promotion of Polish creators and Polish culture is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs also going to take in the countries of the Far East? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u139	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Paweł Kobyliński... Mrs Małgorzata Wypych, I am sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u140	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Everyone knows how important it is to teach their mother tongue. In the case of Polonia, this system can be implemented by teaching in public schools as well as within the framework of the so-called. Polonia schools. For Poles living in Germany until 2007, social schools were financed by the federal government. Since 2007, the federal government has completely refused to do so. During talks about the organisation of teaching, an argument about the division of competences between the federal government and the federal governments is abused. It should be noted that the Federal Government is a party to the 1991 Treaty and therefore responsible for the implementation of the commitment to education. Therefore, let me ask you: What will the Ministry of Foreign Affairs do to facilitate German Polish access to Polish language education? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u141	Please take the floor of Mrs Henryka Krzywonos.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u142	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In connection with the transfer of Polish money from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the Senate, I wanted to ask which institution will finance and in what amount in this year's TVN Polonia. Please respond in writing. Thank you. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: There is no such thing as TVP!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u143	Please take the floor... [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strzycharska: I said TVP.]] ...Mr Cornel Morawiecki. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: No, TVN.]] [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strzycharska: That's what I'm saying. What happened?]] [[Voice from the room: Freudian mistake.]] Ladies and gentlemen... [[Silence your friends, Marshal.]] Excuse me, Marshal. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: At least we own it.]] Please allow the marshal to ask a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u144	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Your countrymen! For a long time our foreign policy has not been up to its task. At the end of last century, the map of the world changed peacefully. We, the creators of Solidarity, have contributed to that good change. Then we rested on our laurels. We have not proposed any original vision for the 21st century. Later, we agreed to force Kosovo away from Serbia, and then, together with America and England, we took part in the aggression against Iraq. This is how collective misfortune began, which today spread to a large area of the Middle East. How can we prevent him now? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Excuse me, if you don't mind, just a moment longer. And our Eastern policy, its consequences. What is our relationship with Russia? We were excluded from the peace process in Ukraine. We have not improved relations with Ukrainians in the civil war. We have weakened our ties with the Visegrad countries. Now Germany, France, Italy are trying to get around us by setting up a new relationship with Russia. How can we change this wrong policy? How can we make a good change around us and around the world? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u145	Thank you, Marshal. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u146	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Minister, I listened to this speech, and there was something missing. You have as one of your prime ministers the Minister of Culture and you say that culture is important to you, while in this speech you really said about culture in one sentence, in one paragraph, paying attention to the anniversary of the 1050th anniversary of Poland's baptism. You said about ECOC 2016 and I am very glad that you finally noticed that we have this year, and you also said that Polish institutes will be reformed. I lacked a memory of the Adam Mickiewicz Institute, which was jointly founded by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Culture, an institution that actually leads to our being known throughout the world and that thanks to this culture we are one and this is our common heritage. My question is: What is the idea of reform of Polish institutes, and how will this reform affect relations with Adam Mickiewicz Institute? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u147	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Tadeusz Dziuba.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u148	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I would like to ask, if possible, for the extension of information on two issues, namely regarding the government's intended actions on the permanent presence of NATO in Poland and the establishment of US bases in Poland. The latter is more advanced, as you know. Thanks to Polish diplomacy this year it will be built, works related to installation of the base in Redzikow will begin. The second issue is more complicated, the resistance of some of our allies must be overcome in relation to the 1997 Declaration, which, in fact, has no legally binding power but is used in the argument. We must overcome the resistance of Germany, which benefit from the presence of American bases in its territory. [[♪ The bell ♪]] If the Minister can expand the information in this area, I'd appreciate it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u149	Thank you, sir. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Katarzyna Osos.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u150	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dynamically growing exports, foreign investment, development - that is what we all wish for. However, let us remember that among the factors influencing our economic achievements are also the actions of the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the entire government, which builds the credibility of Poland on the international stage, its image and implements instruments supporting Polish entrepreneurs abroad. In his speech, the Minister drew attention to economic matters, the need to support entrepreneurs, to build good economic relations with other countries, but what is important is the actions, not words, and the current actions unfortunately cause Poland to lose credibility and its image. Hence my question: When will you, like your predecessors, begin to rebuild Poland's strong position on the international stage, its credibility, its image? Second question: What concrete actions will be taken this year to support Polish entrepreneurs abroad? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u151	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Piotr Apel.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u152	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Minister spoke about creating certain groups of Polonia. Each of us, I am sure, dreaming of Polish diaspora as strong as e.g. Ukrainian diaspora in Canada, Armenian diaspora in the United States, i.e. such a lobbying system. And the question to the Minister is, is there any idea to structure this, for some development, what it should look like? I'm asking for a little more details about this, because this is a very interesting topic and a very good idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u153	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Zbigniew Gryglas. I don't see a messenger. In that case, I ask Mrs Józef Hrynkiewicz to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u154	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! About 20 million Poles and people of Polish origin live outside Poland. Maintaining their relations with Poland, maintaining their identity, knowledge of Polish history, culture and traditions depends on systematic efforts of the Polish government, among others. since the development of Polish education abroad, supporting cathedrals at foreign universities that would develop Polish language, history of Poland and knowledge about Poland. Initiating research, receiving scholarships in Poland, developing Polish initiatives in this area is a great task of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I would like to ask: What is the government's programme in this area in promoting language, history and work on preserving Polish identity among those Poles who live abroad? My request is also to say, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which country you are taking action related to systemic changes concerning diplomatic and consular services. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u155	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr. Tomasz Piotr Nowak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u156	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Professor Adam Rotfeld resigned less than a month ago as President of the Polish-Russian Difficulty Group. What is the assessment of the minister of this group? What tasks would you see in front of this group? I am referring at this moment to your comments on the web portal inpolitics. pl, where you said: The group's work on difficult matters so far is rather optimistic, and Prof. Rotfeld is basically concerned about the Polish state's right. This allows you to believe that the Polish-Russian Troubles Group is important to you and you judge her tasks well. That's one question. The second is related to today's exposé and COP 21. You say you will organize a group that will pursue the Polish emission reduction path, [[♪ The bell ♪]] It will be a group organized among, as you said, the biggest with which you will seek an agreement. What's the big one? What will unite us in this action? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u157	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Robert Winnicki, Kukiz Club15. I don't see your MP. In that case, Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u158	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It was very interesting to hear you speak, although there is a note in this speech that I do not like about your politics. Let us not cultivate the culture and politics of the inferiority complex. This is an element that certainly does not build a good image of Poland in the world, the more that Poland is a very diverse country, it is not only seen through your perspective, or Christian culture. And I want to talk about culture. Because culture is the area of life that is most visible in the world. Names such as Lupa, Balka, Warlikowski, Kozyra, Jarzyna, Zadar, Wysocka, Mykietyn, Libera are people who created the right, true image of Poland open and extremely creative. I would also like to recall the sentence from the Beijing Daily Times, this is a journal that comes out in Beijing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] - I am finishing: It was the largest exhibition in China's national museum in 2015, as well as the first such extensive presentation of the history of Polish art in Asia. We can look at the last 600 years of this country's history through these wonderful works.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u159	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u160	Nearly 200 different newspapers in China wrote about this exhibition. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u161	Thank you very much, thank you, sir. I ask the floor of Mrs Isabella Kloc.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u162	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Visegrad Group has been operating for 25 years and as a formula regional cooperation has repeatedly confirmed its effectiveness both before and after accession to the European Union and NATO. Together with numerous political initiatives, energy infrastructure projects, transport projects, we organize joint projects in Ukraine. The International Visegrad Fund also supports many educational, cultural and also related projects of the Eastern Partnership. The crises have rather confirmed that the Visegrad Group is very much needed, able to integrate and act effectively. I have a question in the context of this difficult situation, about the current condition of the Visegrad Group. Are the new challenges, the migration crisis, security issues not threatening the effective functioning of this group? The next question concerns the Carpathian Strategy, which brings together the countries of the group in a way, expanding [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's about Romania, Ukraine. What do you see here as opportunities for greater cooperation among such a wider group? And finally, the last very specific question. Future transport project. So far we've been talking about roads and railways, and I want to replace the Odra - Danube channel and this inland, water connection...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u163	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u164	Is it possible to discuss this within the Visegrad Group?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u165	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u166	Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u167	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Gadowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u168	Mr. Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! Minister, in today's information on the subject: tasks of Polish foreign policy for 2016. - I am not hiding - I lacked a little bit of economic policy-related threads, in the direction in which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is going to support this policy. The platform spoke clearly and carried out tasks related to diversification of gas and oil supply. It was realized. And today I wanted to ask you: What does it look like in the context of recent contracts concluded by the new President of Orlen, former Member of Law and Justice, President of Lotus in the context of these contracts with Russia? Are we moving in this direction, and you are expanding this policy as well? I'm a Silesian Member. Today in Silesia we are experiencing mining problems. Apart from the fact that we want to save this mining industry, we're also looking for markets. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the sale of coal. I wanted to ask the Minister because I'm going to Silesia and I want to say to them, "What is this year's foreign minister... How will he support this mining in terms of selling even this coal? After all, Germany closes all power plants by 2018...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u169	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u170	...they need about 40 million tons of hard coal. Is the Minister going to take any action in this direction to sell Polish coal? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[For Mr Gadowski, give a round of applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u171	Thank you kindly. Please take the floor of Mr Mark Jakubiak, Kukiz Club15. There's no envoy. In that case, I ask the floor of Mrs Elżbieta Duda.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u172	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Izbo! The current situation of Poles in Lithuania is constantly deteriorating. Polish schools are being liquidated. In existing schools, examinations are held only in Lithuanian. There is a lack of funding for the renovation of educational and cultural establishments and for the purchase of school aid. Many teachers remain unemployed. It is prohibited to use bilingual names, Polish street names, spelling of Polish names is also required in Lithuanian - otherwise penalties are imposed. All of this has an impact on the gradual extermination of Polish youth, and in the future - the entire Polish minority in Lithuania. Minister, what steps is the Polish government planning to take to guarantee the Polish minority in Lithuania due to its rights? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u173	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Richard Wilczyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u174	Mr. Marshal! Minister! New challenges and increases in the scale of threats - including greater need to ensure the security of Polish citizens during their stay abroad - require stability and experience of foreign service. The amendment to the Civil Service Act also refers to the foreign service. This raises this question about the stability of Polish diplomacy. Question: "Is this the only major change in this regard, or do you foresee, Minister, an amendment to the Foreign Service Act?" Eventually to what extent? I also ask the question - this is a serious question - about the scope of the remanent of Polish-German relations, expressing concern about the sustainability of the bridge acquis of the role of the German minority and about the interaction of Polish and German municipalities and regions. Against this background, I would like to point out that this remanent could also cover other relationships; I would like to mention the question of the Czech Republic's border debt to Poland, which has been unfinished since 1957, in a dimension of almost 4 km. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The return of this territory may be a litmus paper on the effectiveness of the present government's dignified foreign policy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u175	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Rafał Wójcikowski. Absent. In that case, I would ask Mrs Lydia Burzyńska to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u176	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The essence of foreign policy is dialogue, mutual understanding of needs. Poles in Lithuania have such a need for dialogue. There are limitations on education in Polish. We need to know that without Polish education it will be difficult to nurture Polishness in Lithuania. So, Minister, what will the Ministry of Foreign Affairs do for Polish education in Lithuania? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u177	Thank you, Member. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Anna Wasilewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u178	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I listened attentively to the Minister's speech. My question: Is the strong position of Poland in Europe, the confidence we have gained among these countries by the latter, so repeated eight years, economic growth is a problem for the current government? Is the PiS government trying to ruin it because it's not the author of success? If it weren't for your mistakes in international politics, this discussion today would have a completely different meaning. We would talk about further creating a future in Europe and the world for young Poles, we would talk about further development of business and trade. But an effective policy is one that helps to put out conflicts, not to fuel them. An effective policy is one that avoids extremes and at the same time takes into account our interests. We will continue to defend Poland's strong position in the European Union. [[♪ The bell ♪]] For the last 2 months, you have taken such care of the interests of our country that the international press compares the situation in Poland to authoritarian governments in Hungary. But, as they see us, that's what they say. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u179	Thank you, Member. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Joanna Borowiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u180	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! More and more Polish children are taken away from their parents by foreign social services. German Jugendamts lead here, who took even a dozen children a year from Polish families, in violation of the law. This is 2013 data, and the problem is growing from year to year. Many complaints from the victims of this crime are received by parliamentarians, people who have not received adequate help from the Polish side in diplomatic institutions. There is a need for appropriate policies in cooperation with other countries affected by this problem. What actions are taken by consuls when Polish children are taken by foreign social services? Whether the Ministry of Foreign Affairs monitors cases of taking Polish children away from parents and whether the Ministry of Foreign Affairs plans to conduct policies in this area in cooperation with other countries, because there is such a clear need. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u181	Thank you, Member. And please take the floor of Mr Wojciech Wolf.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u182	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Leaving international policy on a macro scale, I would like to ask whether the Ministry of Foreign Affairs intends to support local authorities in cross-border cooperation with cities, regions of Ukraine neighbouring our country directly, as well as those located a little further away, for example in the east of Ukraine. So far, this cooperation - I can say this on the example of Lublin and Lublin Voivodeship - has been very good, as confirmed by the visit of the Ukrainian President Petra Poroszenko in Lublin in December 2014. These local Polish-Ukrainian contacts have a very practical dimension, because the Ukrainian party hopes to pass on our experiences, connected with reforms carried out in our country. It is also very important to exchange experiences between local authorities themselves, and I think this should be done with the support of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It is not necessary to convince anyone here that it is in our national interest to promote the development of democracy in Ukraine. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, it is very important to support the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for local governments involved in cooperation with Ukrainian partners. What plans does the Ministry have in this regard? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u183	Thank you. And I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Anna Milczanowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u184	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to thank you very warmly for the speech of the Minister today, for the fact that the Polish government, together with the President of the Republic of Poland, will primarily care about our interests, Poles, military security, economic security and political security. This is very important to us. Ladies and gentlemen, Poles are the second national minority in Belarus in terms of numbers. The Belarusian authorities have repeatedly intervened in an administrative manner in the affairs of Poles living there. A common phenomenon is the harassment, persecution, repression, as well as the reduction of Polish language learning in schools or cultural activities of Poles, our compatriots, who live there. What activities are carried out by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in relation to 16 Polish houses in Belarus and schools [[♪ The bell ♪]] Polish language created for financial means of the Republic of Poland? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u185	Thank you, Member. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Elżbieta Gapinska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u186	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, so far experience from previous governments in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs shows that many ambassadors, consuls-general, directors of Polish institutes are cancelled, while few are appointed to replace them. I would like to ask about PiS personnel policy in Polish diplomatic offices, a policy which is crucial for implementing the Polish state of affairs abroad, a policy that requires a diplomatic workshop and knowledge of languages. First question: When will we meet candidates for positions cancelled by the PiS government of ambassadors in Madrid and Belgrade? Is it true, Minister, what has been written in the media and on various web portals, that the 10 ambassadors are yet to be called out early by your government? What capitals are these ambassadors gonna be canceled from? Are there any concrete substantive allegations against these persons, or is it a matter of the standard state of the plea that these persons present non-compliant views? [[♪ The bell ♪]] With the line of the current government? In total, ambassadors already cancelled, those who have not yet been appointed, those who the media are talking about, that they can be cancelled early, which ends with a four-year term, may be over 30. This accounts for almost 40% all Polish ambassadors.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u187	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u188	What are the conditions of the PiS government for such a human revolution? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u189	Thank you kindly. And please take the floor of Mr Tomasz Szymanski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u190	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! You mentioned the traditional values of Europe as a foundation of a united Europe. There's no way to deny it. However, when I listened to your speech on refugees, I had the impression that this is a mental and cultural problem for the current government. Surely you know who said these words: "In the face of the tragedy of tens of thousands of refugees who flee from death because of war and famine and are on the march to hope for life, the Gospel calls us to be neighbors of the least and abandoned, to give them a concrete hope, not just to say: Courage, patience. Please comment. After all, this is an aspect of the diplomacy of values you mentioned. You also mentioned the destructive role of Russia, Minister. I'm sure you're right. The Russian Federation is not an icon of freedom and democracy. But how is this destructive role in the decisions made by your party colleague, now president of PKN Orlen, Mr Wojciech Jasiński, to strengthen the import of oil from Russia? In this context, Minister, please be clear: Who is the destroyer of European order? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is this the country that you and I are thinking about right now? If we think the same, then the previous question is of particular importance. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u191	Thank you. And please take the floor of Mr Jack Kurzepa.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u192	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I am from Lubuskie land, where the Lubuskie Border Guard Branch is located, so it is no wonder that I will ask about the European Border and Coast Guard project. I think you remember, on 9 September, the President of the European Commission, Jean-Claude Juncker, spoke about an important asset, which is the Schengen Agreement. And we absolutely don't question that. At the same time, he talked about the need for some revision of the thinking about Frontex. Besides, I think a similar position has been presented for years by the director of this agency Fabrice Leggeri. So my question, Minister, is this: What is our government's position on the issue of the European Border and Coast Guard - I could mention here a quote - whose competences will go far beyond giving some sense of autonomy and independence to our country? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u193	Thank you, sir. And I would ask Mrs Zofia Czernow to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u194	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Last December, the European Commission welcomed the introduction of visa-free travel to the European Union for citizens of Ukraine and Georgia. When will the European Union formally decide to abolish visas for these countries? What action is being taken by the Polish government, the PiS government, on speeding up the abolition of visa traffic for the citizens of Georgia and Ukraine? And second question: At what stage is the so-called. the remanent of cooperation with the Germans, of which you said the Minister in your speech, and when will it be completed? The so-called extension. The remanent of cases with the Germans is detrimental to this cooperation. That's why I'm asking you to reflect. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u195	Please take the floor of Mr Marcin Święcicki. [[And Mrs April?]] Mrs Anna April. Excuse me, Member. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u196	Good morning, Minister. [[And you get closer.]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha.]] Mr. Marshal! Minister! Dear Izbo! The history of the efforts to create the Polish House in Lviv is a story that has been around for almost 25 years. And to this day this house has not been built, it has not been realized. Granted, since 2012, work on the completion of the building of such a house has accelerated, as it has been transferred to Poles on the street. Shevchenkos, however, I know and I have such information from Mrs. Emilia Chmielowa that to this day there are certain perturbations related to property - about the plot, about the object that was transferred. I have a question: [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will the construction of the Polish House in Lviv continue, and what plans does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have for the establishment of such a house? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u197	Thank you. And this time, please take the floor of Mr Marcin Święcicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u198	Mr. Marshal! Minister! In your speech, Minister, you have made a good diagnosis and outlined the objectives of Ukrainian policy, namely respect and support for Ukraine in its European choice. On the other hand, the problem remains the means to do so. One of the main obstacles, if not the main obstacle in Ukraine's implementation of this choice, is Russian aggression - military, trade war against Ukraine, propaganda war against Ukraine. In this regard, what you are proposing, namely to conduct dialogue with Russia, to maintain channels of communication, to lay down the condition that a possible NATO-Russia Council meeting must be on the agenda of the Crimea case, is absolutely insufficient. If the power of the law is to be before the law of force, then it must be enforced. In this respect, the West has at its disposal the means of sanctions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Economic sanctions, personal sanctions. I have a question for you: Will Poland be in favour of maintaining and even strengthening economic, human, technological sanctions towards Russia, so that it will respect the law and that what you have called for, this maxim of the President...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u199	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u200	...the force of the law before the law of force, was not an empty slogan, but was really implemented by our policy? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u201	Thank you kindly. I ask the floor of Mrs Joanna Lichocka. I don't see a Member. In that case, Mr Zbigniew Ajchler. [[I didn't see that coming so fast.]] [[Voice from the room: Hurry! Hurry!]] [[I'm going, Marshal, I'm going.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u202	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Dear fellow Members, Minister, I have listened very carefully to your speech and I would like to ask: Am I to understand that the officials of all levels of our diplomatic offices will be very intensively burdened with specific tasks in mathematical terms, namely task, execution, settlement? I'm talking about gaining markets for economic cooperation. Are you planning to increase the cast of diplomatic offices, embassies, consulates in terms of efficiency and market acquisition? And a very important topic: Are you planning and declaring to support the aspirations of our local authorities at all levels in the multifaceted exchange, including economic exchange, with different European countries, whether or not they come from the circles of supporters of law and justice, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Or their adversaries? These local governments have gained great recognition, they are an area of economic exchange for small and medium-sized enterprises, they expect, Minister, from our government support.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u203	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u204	One last question. Excuse me, Mr. Marshal. Can they count on greater autonomy in this regard? Because you didn't say anything in your exposé. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u205	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Tadeusz Wozniak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u206	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! In the first words, I would like to thank the Minister for today's exposé, in which you have comprehensively presented the priorities of Polish foreign policy. You also paid a lot of attention to the eastern dimension of our policy and the issue of Poles living in the former republics of the Soviet Union. Nevertheless, I would like to ask the Minister what the government intends to do about the divided Polonia, divided Poles in Belarus, where the Union of Poles in Belarus has been torn since 2005, where there is one union which is recognised by the Polish Government and supported, but not recognized by the Belarusian authorities, and there is a second union, pro-Belaruski, which is not recognized by the Polish authorities. Is there any agreement here? Because this is an extremely important matter. And the second issue is the issue of education in Belarus. At the end of last year, the fifth educational forum in Belarus was held. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The conclusions of this forum are simply massacreous - the number of people learning Polish is falling considerably, at the university in Brest probably next academic year...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u207	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u208	...will stop learning Polish at all. Will the Polish Government take any action on this matter? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u209	Thank you. I ask the floor of Mrs Dorota Rutkowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u210	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! As President of the Polish-French Parliamentary Group in the last term of office I've been waiting for what the Minister will say about the assumptions of our cooperation with France. Let me remind you that this is our fifth trading partner in the European Union, and the value of trade with this country is almost EUR 16 billion a year. We have signed international agreements with France, and in one opinion the Minister has blessed these relations by saying that Paris remains an important partner, especially in political and military matters - period. I don't mean to say it's disrespectful, but unfortunately, that's the term itself. I have a question: Does the PiS government intend to annul the arms tenders decided by the previous government? As a member of Łódź, I mean [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mostly for the Caracal helicopter contract. And don't you think that this scenario poses a threat to relations with France? I'm gonna ask you to answer that question in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u211	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Zaremba. I don't see your MP. In that case, Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u212	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On April 10, we will celebrate the 6th anniversary of the Smolensk disaster and the 76th anniversary of the Katyn crime. I would like to ask the Minister whether the representatives of the Polish government, our government, will go to Katyn on this day. What will be the level of government representation or the President's Office at this ceremony? I am also interested in whether, during the discussion of Polish and Russian foreign ministers in Moscow last week, this topic was discussed by the Polish party and whether arrangements were made with the Russian party on this matter. Representatives of the PO-PSL government since 2010 have participated in ceremonial events on a yearly basis [[♪ The bell ♪]] the celebrations of these two anniversaries, so I would like to ask whether the PiS government will continue this tradition. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u213	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Adam Oldakowski. You're an MP. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u214	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Minister Anna Maria Anders has already presented on 25 January the founding of a new law on repatriation, developed among others. as a result of consultation with Polish environments in the East. In recent years, the process of repatriation has been almost stopped, with only 30 and 50 repatriates arriving in Poland each year. Minister, will the revised bill shift the burden of funding repatriation from government to government? Will the government keep the promised deadline of 100 days to amend the Repetition Act? What are the main objectives of the amendment? Is the approximate number of repatriates waiting to arrive in Poland known? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u215	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Jack Protasiewicz. I don't see your MP. Please take the floor of Mr Piotr Uruski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u216	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The Silk Belt and Silk Route initiative creates an opportunity for the economic development of Poland as a country located at the intersection of transport routes between Europe and Asia. By participating in this project, Poland can gain many opportunities for development, especially in the field of infrastructure and logistics. The project of the route can serve to create logistics and distribution centers in our country using already existing infrastructure. During President Andrzej Duda's visit to China last November, a memorandum was signed on an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the People's Republic of China on mutual support for the [[♪ The bell ♪]] Hence the question: How does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs see the role and involvement of Poland in the Chinese project of the new silk route? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u217	Thank you, sir. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Ursula Augustyn. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u218	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! You also pay very much attention to Poland's relations with the countries of the East, and that is very good, thanks to you for that, but you cannot act as if you had pulled one card from the atlas, as if you had not noticed that Polonia is also in the West. Minister said in his speech today that he would send Polish teachers to the East. But I think we all know that the youngest Polish immigration is in Western European countries, i.e. that there are the most children we should take care of, because if these parents decide they want to go back to the country, which we all want, then we want these children to be able to return to our education system. My question is this: First of all, do you know how many young students, Polish students we have in Western Europe? Is there any idea what to do in a situation where the Minister of Education cuts off the only money, 40% anyway, [[♪ The bell ♪]] For the education of these children, and a few thousand kids benefit from this education? It's called homework. But if you don't call it that, it's the only possibility in the 21st century of direct contact and teaching kids who stay with their parents abroad...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u219	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u220	...and would like to return to Poland at the right time, to their yearbook. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u221	Thank you kindly. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Anna Krupka.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u222	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Visegrad Group and the Weimar Triangle are important forms of European cooperation. I'd like to focus on the other one. This year we celebrate his 25th anniversary. In my opinion, his formula has run out and needs a deep definition today. Therefore, my question is: So how does the government assess the activity of the Weimar Triangle, and what will the future of this group be? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u223	Thank you, Member. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Bernadet Krynicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u224	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The development of foreign trade in Poland is influenced by various factors, mainly the policy of the state authorities which determine the direction of trade, the demand for certain goods or services offered on the markets, the demand of the Polish economy for goods required for the development of individual sectors. It is up to the Polish authorities to determine the direction in which foreign trade will take place. Foreign trade is often a determinant of the welfare of the state. It often provides an impetus to economic development. The positive balance of trade is very favourable from an economic point of view. It keeps jobs and improves the development of the national economy. Minister, according to the Ministry of Development, the negative balance of Polish-Chinese trade flows increased in 2015. Why do we have such a large trade deficit with China? Do we have a chance to break it? Is President Andrzej Duda's visit to China [[♪ The bell ♪]] will it have an impact on increasing the presence of Polish exporters on the Chinese market? Is there any chance of increasing Chinese investment volume...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u225	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u226	...in Poland in preferred areas? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u227	Thank you kindly. I ask the floor of Mrs Isabella Leszczyna.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u228	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Your speech is a vision of foreign policy, which places Poland on the periphery of the European Union and the Polish economy on the periphery of the European economy. This is confirmed by the statements of the majority of Members of the Law and Justice. The Weimar Triangle is a relic, we will strengthen in the Visegrad Group, where you can see your strong position. It is a pity, because Poland can afford to be a strong country of the European Union and not just one small group within the Union. You said that when thinking about the security of Poland, the government also thinks about economic security, not just thinking about action, but about actions that the government of Beata Szydło took in the first few weeks, it was primarily actions that caused more harm than good. You've given one sentence to our biggest trading partner, that we need to make a return. [[♪ The bell ♪]] in relations with the Germans. My question is, how do you intend to support entrepreneurs and Polish companies that run...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u229	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u230	...interests with German partners.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u231	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Robert Telus.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u232	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Foreign policy is a very important issue for Poland, but in this policy is also the issue of agriculture and the issue of taking care of Polish agriculture. For the last 8 years, but not only, my dear country, for the last 8 years, because Polish People's Party has been responsible for Polish agriculture for the last 18 years, there are great negligence in this foreign agricultural policy. Minister, what actions will the Ministry take to rebuild markets, acquire foreign markets for good Polish products that will serve Polish agriculture? In the rule of law and justice, during the two years we ruled, between 2005 and 2007, there was a function for every embassy for a man who cares about our interests, for the interests of Polish farmers abroad, to gain foreign markets and to take care of this good brand of our products. Will this function be maintained? Will there be people who will care [[♪ The bell ♪]] markets for Polish agriculture? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u233	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Zdzisław Gawlik.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u234	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Truism is the claim that there is no security of Poland without energy security. In your statement, you point out that the element of energy security in our country is the pig gasport. Today, news has appeared in the media that the intention of expanding this gas-port into a third tank is at risk. Agreements for preparing a feasibility study for the third tank were signed in March last year. I wanted to ask if this possible intention to build a pipeline for Norwegian gas could possibly block the intention to expand the gasport in Świnoujście. I think the expansion of this tank is very important, given the energy balance in gas supply, taking into account the interconnectors from the south and west and the gas from Świnoujście and the extraction of its own, it simply says that the expansion of the gasport should take place. Question two. As you know, for the first time last year Poland managed to gain a capital advantage in EuRoPol Gaza. Today, these shares are at 52:48. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Recently, the media also reported that EuRoPol Gaz has no Polish representatives. I wanted to ask if it was true. If so, how do we build in this area also...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u235	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u236	...energy security? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u237	Please take the floor of Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski. I don't see your MP. In that case, Mr Czesław Mroczek will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u238	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today, you stated that the primary objective of Polish foreign policy is the security of the state. Poland's security is based on membership of the European Union and NATO. Meanwhile, the actions you have taken over the past few months are straining or weakening our position both in NATO and in the European Union. A few days after the start of your office, you stated to the public that continuing to remain, acting as chiefs of Polish special services is a greater threat than an external threat. Minister Macierewicz started a night attack on NATO in Poland. How do you want to achieve your goals, in particular to strengthen Poland's position in NATO and in the European Union, in particular to succeed at the next NATO summit in Warsaw, through such actions? And what do you want to achieve at the next NATO summit besides what is the acquis of the Wales Summit in Newport, a rotating presence [[♪ The bell ♪]] American base in Poland? It's all part of the Platform government. Are you preparing public opinion for the failure of the NATO Summit in Warsaw? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u239	Thank you, sir. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u240	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! In view of our important commitment to Poles exported during the war to the East and their families, the commitment to enable them to return to their homeland, I would like to ask the Minister whether a timetable for legal, financial and organisational action is being prepared for this purpose. When can our Parliament expect such a programme to be presented? Today we are after the first reading of the law amending the Polish Charter Act. I understand that this is the beginning of the road. The second question concerns the participation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in matters of children from mixed marriages in Germany, taken from their parents at the request of Jugendamt for the use of Polish language in conversations with their parents. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u241	Thank you, Member. I ask the floor of Mr Tomasz Lenz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u242	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday, at the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, during the discussion before today, Minister Waszczykowski spoke: I understand what a Euro-enthusiast is. But I completely don't understand what you're talking about when you say who the Eurosceptic is. What's a Eurosceptic, isn't it? The Minister has expressed such an opinion. So maybe I'll give you one opinion, and then I'll ask you to answer who might have said it. The European Union - a socialist experiment that has been aimed at creating a common political, economic and, worst of all, ideal space with Russia since the 1990s. In view of this, a neosocialist power is to be created between Lisbon and Vladivostok. The Union in this form would actually only be implementing the plans of Vladimir Lenin. Who said that, Minister? What kind of Eurosceptic said that? His name is Antoni and he's the Minister of National Defense. [[Applause]] [[As if you didn't know.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u243	Please take the floor of Mr Piotr Polak. I don't see your MP. In that case, Mr Arkadiusz Carrot. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u244	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, Effective diplomacy is characterized by the fact that you should speak little and listen well. And you should say what is confirmed and reliably verified. One of the priorities presented in the exposé was, of course, the security of Poles and closer cooperation with NATO. A few weeks ago, a declaration by the Minister of National Defence appeared in the media that NATO soldiers would appear permanently in Poland. However, after the intervention and correction of this information by UK partners, it turned out that in our country it would not be permanently stationed at all 1 000. British soldiers, and such assurances, according to the Minister of Defence, fell at a meeting of the Heads of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and National Defence held in the UK. However, it turned out that [[♪ The bell ♪]] The British will only want to take part in the Anakonda and Swift Response exercises. I therefore ask you to answer: What were the actual findings of this meeting and why, then, the declarations of the Minister of Defence in connection with this cooperation completely They miss out on what the British side says? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u245	Please take the floor of Mr Jan Mosiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u246	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Mr Schetyna forgot to mention his embarrassing international failures in his flower speech, so let me remind you, High Sejm, these failures. As head of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, he freed us from the German extermination camp with Ukrainian troops. As head of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, he moved with Marshal Sejm Sikorski the number of Poles murdered as a result of a terrorist attack in Tunisia. These are the accents and effects of the international policy of the former head of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. So many reminders. Minister, I have a question for the Minister regarding the direction of foreign policy when it comes to contacts with China. Will you raise as difficult issues as the situation of the Catholic Church and Catholics in China, as well as violations of civil rights and trade union freedoms in China during the planned meetings? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u247	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Michael Jaros. There isn't. In that case, please take the floor of Mr Jarosław Nobletka.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u248	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! According to the United Nations estimates, only around 400 000 reached Europe through the Mediterranean last year. refugees, and this could be 450,000 in 2016. And more people. This shows that illegal refugees arrive uncontrolledly in Europe, which undoubtedly has a negative impact on the level of security of European Union citizens. The adopted formula of aid aimed mainly at implementing a relocation mechanism in the countries of Europe, to which the former government of PO and Mrs Ewa Kopacz have thoughtlessly and irresponsiblely agreed, does not solve the problems of refugees. Many of my constituents, like myself, are concerned and opposed to such a mechanism for helping refugees. Therefore, in relation to security issues and the related problem of refugees from Syria and Libya and from Turkish refugee camps, I ask the Minister, "What other solutions, apart from relocation mechanisms, can contribute to solving the migration crisis in Europe and whether the Government of Law and Justice can renegotiate." [[♪ The bell ♪]] the findings of the previous government of PO and PSL? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u249	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Leszek Korzeniowski. There isn't. In that case, please take the floor of Mr Stanisław Żmijan. [[Excuse me. How about me?]] Excuse me, sir. Mr. Tomasz Ławniczak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u250	Mr. Marshal! Minister! One of the most important objectives of Polish foreign policy is to maintain the current political order in Central and Eastern Europe, in particular to oppose the attempt to review the order of the połatyan Order shaped in the early 1990s, which Russia is trying to do. Our strategic allies in this region of Europe are among others. Lithuania and outside the European and Euro-Atlantic structures of Ukraine. We will support Ukraine, as you said, in the diplomatic field. Other areas of cooperation are the economy, cultural exchange, but we are certainly divided by history. The first Republic is an era in which we lived in one country. In the 19th century, when this Poland was not there, it was born in Europe, among others. in Lithuanians and Ukrainians, [[♪ The bell ♪]] nationalism, and the 20th century brings with it totalitarianism and all cooperation with Nazi totalitarianism, both Lithuanians and Ukrainians. So the question is, did the ministry...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u251	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u252	...will initiate a historical dialogue...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u253	Thank you kindly, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u254	...especially Polish-Ukrainian and Polish-Lithuanian, and...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u255	Please take the floor...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u256	...what instruments will be used to...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u257	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u258	...to promote the autonomy of Poles, cultural and educational?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u259	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Stanisław Szmijan.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u260	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In express mode, as part of the night shift, you have amended the Civil Service Act. [[It's crucial for our development.]] Following the regulations adopted, the Foreign Ministry will also lose the work of many experienced, well prepared for the diplomatic service of workers, supposedly more than 100 people. During the debate, a representative of the PiS Club spoke with great determination about the need to exchange staff on behalf of the club. These are the employees I want to ask you about. First, is it true, second, do you have a plan to develop this potential in the form of knowledge and experience of these people? One more question. Based on what criteria, what rules will you employ the successors? Thank you very much. [[You guys started a good...]] Madame, please show some patience. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u261	Thank you. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Gabriela Masłowska. [[Thank you so much for the standing ovation.]] [[For Mr Viper.]] There is no Member. In that case, I would ask the floor of Mr Tomasz Kostusia.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u262	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I have questions about the Weimar Triangle and the Kaliningrad Triangle, the format of meetings with the most important strategic neighbours and partners of Poland in the European Union and in the East. During the meetings of the Minister with the French and German Foreign Ministers, did you make arrangements for the next meeting of the Weimar Triangle? In the context of recent actions by the Government of Law and Justice, are you not concerned that our French and German partners will not want to reactivate this format of meetings? What issues would the PiS government like to discuss in a possible meeting of the Weimar Triangle? Will you continue the format of meetings of Poland - Germany - Russia initiated by Minister Sikorski, i.e. the so-called. The Kaliningrad Triangle? Was this the subject of discussions between the Minister in Berlin and the last Vice-President? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Polish diplomacy with the Russian side in Moscow? Thank you, and I'm counting on your answer. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u263	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr John Kilian. I don't see your MP. In that case, please take the floor of Mr Leszek Ruszczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u264	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You, Minister, said from this stand that you are in favour of signing a free trade agreement between the United States and the European Union. So how do you intend to safeguard the interests of the Polish agri-food and chemical industry, as well as the activities of our small and medium-sized enterprises? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u265	Thank you, sir. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Anna Paluch.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u266	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! What actions and in what timeframe will be taken to obtain the return of the wreckage of the TU-154M aircraft held by Russia in Smolensk? This situation clearly reflects the way our country is perceived by the international opinion. The situation of holding of Polish property, taking possession of important evidence in the conduct of the proceedings, aimed at explaining the causes and course of the government crash of the aircraft near Smoleńsk, humiliates and humiliates the Polish state. It cannot be seen and taken seriously in an international opinion by a country which allows such treatment. Minister, we are aware that you have inherited the situation after the significant and gross omissions of the two previous governments on the subject that Russia is a difficult and unpredictable partner, but [[♪ The bell ♪]] what actions and in what time frame will be taken in this regard? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u267	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Killon Munyama.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u268	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! I am very pleased that the Minister noted that economic and trade cooperation and, of course, investment between Poland and the African countries is increasing. There is a plan to possibly increase the number of embassies in African countries. I hope that one of these embassies will be in Zambia, which is a very well connected country with Zimbabwe, Malawi, Mozambique and Namibia. Second question. In relation to the removal of sanctions against Iran, we also see the enormous activity of our partners from the European Union towards this country. Let us remind President Hasan Rouhani of his visit to France and Italy. How is Polish diplomacy going to get involved in this process, which is extremely important? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u269	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Maria Zuba.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u270	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On 22 January, the first visit to Moscow was made to Deputy Ministers of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, who initiated the contacts of the government Prime Minister Beata Szydło with the Russians. According to the press releases, consultations were held at the level of the Deputy Ministers and the discussions held confirmed the need to continue cooperation within the existing bilateral dialogue institutions and to maintain working political and economic contacts, including at regional level. The discussions confirmed the readiness to use social platforms for bilateral cooperation, such as the Civil Dialogue Forum, the Difficulty Group, the Centre for Dialogue and Understanding. Intensification of working group meetings within committees is also expected [[♪ The bell ♪]] international for economic cooperation. Therefore, Minister, I have a question and a request for more information on the effects of these consultations.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u271	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u272	What are the results of the consultation at the level of the Polish-Russia talks?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u273	Thank you, and I ask you to take the floor of Mr Michael Szczerba. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u274	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I'd like to ask you to focus briefly on what I'm about to say, because it's quite serious. This is a question of linking today's debate on Polish foreign policy's intentions with the 2016 budget law. I do not know if the Minister is aware, but by the amendments to the Law and Justice, the ombudsman's budget for 2016 was reduced by 1/4. Minister, this is a limitation of the financial independence of the Ombudsman, which will lead to violations of Poland's international obligations, thus violating the internationally agreed standards. These are UN documents, these are also Council of Europe documents. You recently asked the Ombudsman to meet with the Venice Commission of the Council of Europe during her visit to February. Is the subject of loss, limitation of financial independence of the Ombudsman [[♪ The bell ♪]] You want him to become one of the subjects of this conversation? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u275	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mrs Iwona Machalek... [[Michael.]] Michael. Excuse me, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u276	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I listened attentively to your speech and paid particular attention to the passage in which you write about the cooperation of the Ministry with the Ministry of National Education. I'd like to ask you what this cooperation is all about. Because what I'm trying to say is that she's really, really needed, because your predecessors didn't do it at all, they didn't even want to do it. For many years, I have worked my entire professional life in education at different stages of education and teachers have never felt any such cooperation between these two ministries. [[How are they supposed to feel?]] That is why I wanted to ask: What is this cooperation supposed to be? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u277	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Jack Protas. There isn't. In that case, please take the floor of Mr Stanisław Pieta.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u278	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Minister mentioned the issue of the construction of the pipeline Nord Stream II. We see clearly that it poses a threat to our economic, energy security. Well, as you know, Minister, there have been over 60,000 at the bottom of the Baltic Sea since World War II. t chemical ammunition. Would it not therefore be worthwhile to launch an initiative aimed at searching the bottom of the Baltic Sea, to avoid the ecological threat and really destroy biological life in the Baltic, to which this unthinkable investment can lead. The second issue is refugees. We see, ladies and gentlemen, clearly, this is the information from today that Germany decides to send back [[♪ The bell ♪]] refugees, migrants from Tunisia, Algeria and Morocco immediately. Finland has already returned more than 4 000 by air transport. refugees. Sweden is considering a referral of 80,000. refugees.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u279	(PL) Mr President, please ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u280	Aye, aye, Marshal. [[What are we gonna do about it?]] In view of the situation in Western European countries, should we not, however, seek to rethink those arrangements which recklessly...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u281	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u282	...a government of the Civic Platform? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u283	Please take the floor of Mrs Bożena Szydłowska. There isn't. [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal, maybe we can extend it to one and a half minutes...]] Then please take the floor of Mr Adam Abramowicz. There isn't. In that case, please take the floor of Mrs Bożena Kaminska... Krystyna Skowronska, I apologize to you, Mrs Skowronska. [[How could you not have seen me? I'm sitting here all the time.]] [[And you make so much movement all the time.]] And I can hear you very well, Madame.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u284	Dear Marshal, A question for the Minister. I lack the response to the repatriation policy that you spoke about before the elections, because there is no more money in the 2016 budget for repatriation policy, and refugees from Donbas and Mariupola are the actions of the previous government. I would like to know about the transfer from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of a well-functioning care fund for Polonia and Poles abroad back to the Senate. So... [[How good?]] You don't believe your minister, you take your minister away. [[Two years ago, all the Polish newspapers almost fell because of your movement...]] I would like to ask you about issues such as: development cooperation policy. To what extent will the Minister implement this policy with further higher resources? In the area of the continuation of economic policy Poland - Africa... [[♪ The bell ♪]] What will be the Minister's next steps in this regard? And last but not least, the NATO issue - on what topics and how will you talk to the parliamentarians about the projects that have been prepared for the NATO Convention? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u285	Thank you very much, Member. Please take the floor of Mrs Bożena Kaminska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u286	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Poland's participation in peace operations is important due to the achievements and important place of our country in international structures aimed at resolving conflicts. In addition, this is a question related to the security of citizens of the Republic of Poland working in many places of the world in the service of peace. I have a question for the Minister: Is the Government of Law and Justice considering Polish commitment to new UN missions and what added value do you see in your commitment to individual missions with the UN mandate? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u287	Thank you. I ask the floor of Mrs Ewa Kołodziej.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u288	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to make you, especially in the right part of the room, aware that you are losing a great friend of Poland at your own request. This great friend of Poland is, in my opinion, the Vice-President of the European Commission, Mr Frans Timmermans. Examples of Mr Vice-President's kindness can be multiplied. Unfortunately, this one minute doesn't allow me to do that. I have a lot of evidence for his kindness towards Poles and Poles. I am very concerned about how easily Law and Justice loses friends in Europe. I would like to take the opportunity to say a few very important words directly to Vice-President Timmermans. Geachte heer Timmermans! Uw laatste activiteiten laten zien dat u grote zorg en interesse voor de situatie in Polen toont. [[Oh, Jesus, cabaret.]] [[Oh, my God.]] Ik wil u graag hartelijk bedanken hiervoor. Daarnaast wil ik u bedanken voor uw enorme zorg met betrekking tot de rechtsorde in Polen en voor het bewaken van het rechtssysteem in Polen. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ik geloof dat uw inspanningen, zullen voor zorgen dat er in Polen de rechtstaat overwint. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, may I translate the Minister? [[Time's up, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u289	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u290	I assume he doesn't speak Dutch. He'll probably want to know what I said.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u291	Well, therefore, thank you very much. [[The statements will be here in four hours. The correspondence exists.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u292	These are very important words that I have addressed directly to Vice-President Frans Timmermans... [[The correspondence exists.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u293	Thank you very much, Madam President. Please take the floor of Mr Mark Rząsa. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u294	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! For many years I have been working with this speaker on the occasion of the Minister's information and I am calling for Poles, the Polish minority in Ukraine, to have their rights. I think that effectively, because thanks to my efforts and actions of the previous government, it was finally possible to lead to the fact that the Polish minority in Lviv will have its own property, the House of Poland. Visa facilitations and small border traffic, care for the Ukrainian minority in Poland, return of their assets, new border crossing points - these are good examples of constant improvement of neighbouring relations with Ukraine. I ask the Minister not to cease his active efforts to urge the Ukrainian party to make similar gestures on the other side of the border, i.e. proper treatment of the Polish minority, proper treatment or care for monuments and historical substance of special importance for Poles, even for the Church of St. Mary Magdalene in Lviv. I would also like to ask for written information on the state of completion of the construction of the Malhowice-Niżkowice border crossing point in the Przemyśl district. [[♪ The bell ♪]] According to the information I received from the Podkarpackie Voivodeship, this investment was stopped. This news is extremely disturbing, as the local authorities are hoping for an economic and tourist recovery with this transition. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u295	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Janusz Cichoń.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u296	Mr. Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! I would like to ask if the Minister is aware of the importance of the economy, the sector of the economy is tourism. Does the Minister know that more than 1 million people work in broadly defined tourism in Poland, that this tourism, in terms of its share of GDP, is more important than mining and steel combined? And do you know how irresponsible jokes and jokes about what is happening in Poland affect this industry? Your statement about bikers results in many places, in Warmia and Mazury, withdrawal of bookings by German bicycle groups... [[You have no sense of humor, sir. It's so boring.]] ...for this year's vacation, for this year's journeys. [[Applause]] The question is, do you realize... [[I'm gonna need that in German.]] [[They're coming from Hungary.]] ...and shouldn't you be tempted to reflect more deeply on this matter? The question is also, [[♪ The bell ♪]] How tourism... Yet the Minister of Foreign Affairs should support this tourism, the development of tourism by promoting Poland, the promotion of Polish tourism. There wasn't a word you said about it. I'm asking for a declaration at least. [[Applause]] [[Please use German for a friend's example.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u297	Thank you, sir. Let me get this personal. As a resident of Western Pomerania, I often go to Świnoujście, near the border. We have not noticed a reduction in the Western Pomerania, of which we are very happy, the number of very numerous cyclists, our lovely neighbours from Germany. We invite them cordially. I'm sure Warmia and Mazury will be there, too. Thank you kindly. [[Voice from the hall: What about the vegetarians?]] Please take the floor of Mr Stanisław Huskowski. [[You will pay the Minister for all those withdrawn.]] [[And there's less and less in Kolobrzeg.]] [[They're scared of the MP.]] [[But I'm not from Kolobrzeg.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u298	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It will not be about cyclists, although about Polish-German relations. Round table, round table. Already five years ago, the first plenary session of the round table was held. There were several meetings, a change in Warsaw and Berlin. Although this is differently assessed, there are various difficulties, but it is generally positively assessed by both parties and it is an important forum for exchanging experience, trying to reach consensus on various issues. It is all the more a valuable tool, that it is attended by representatives of Poles residing in Germany and German minority in Poland. Recently, as far as I know, several meetings of the working parties have been held and these working groups have concluded. The question to the Minister is this: Wouldn't it be worth doing another round table meeting in the spring, before the anniversary of the treaty, to close some things? [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is a good time to press on certain matters, such as the case of the Polish House in Bochum, which I believe, and I have participated in the negotiations, would be to be dealt with if a little more pressure. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u299	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mrs Aldona Młyńczak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u300	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to raise two points: security and economic relations. Because security and peace, which are a good strategy for Poland, depend on balance in building good relations between the East and the West. So does the government intend to pursue a consensus policy to ensure this security or a policy of constant conflict with Russia and the European Union? It must be understood that the consensus is not bad - the Minister is still reading something there - because it leads to agreement and cooperation, and the constant search for points of inflammation is a threat to the security of Poland. Please, Minister, do not waste the achievements of Polish diplomacy, because international relations are built for years or longer, and are destroyed very quickly, within a few months. Minister! Economic relations are also important in foreign policy. What actions will the Minister of Foreign Affairs carry out to support the export of Polish products and services? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Does the Ministry envisage an increase in business missions involving private entrepreneurs? Please also remember that economic diplomacy is also an important element of building the image of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u301	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Jarosław Urbaniak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u302	Mr. Marshal! Minister! As a logic, I would like to ask about the contradictions in the Minister's exposé, in particular the contradictions between the declarations made there and the policies actually pursued by the PiS Government. On the one hand, you are declaring good cooperation with the European Union, and on the other hand there are many anti-European statements, including. the fact that trade with the European Union is too big, that it is dangerous, that it needs to be changed, to find new directions. Another point of the Minister's exposé was that it would be good if the Gulf countries were one of these new directions. So much for declarations, the fact that conflicting, but in real politics it's even worse. Well, your party colleague, Mr Jasiński, the new President of Orlen, signed a huge, unfavorable agreement for Poland to supply a huge amount of oil. Who? Russia. [[♪ The bell ♪]] All of Europe is talking to Russia about the language of oil and its prices, and you are helping Russia. You'll scream, you'll wave a saber, but you'll always be real. You're gonna help Russia. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u303	Thank you, sir. And I ask for the floor of Mrs Ewa Drozd.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u304	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I regret that there is no Minister Waszczykowski, because I would like to address his statement and ask him a question, because the Minister has responded to the concern of the European Union countries with what is happening in Poland with the Constitutional Tribunal or with the free media that the European Union has entered into unnecessary conflict with Poland. [[That's right.]] Hence my questions. Will you now consider, within the framework of Polish foreign policy, that everyone who has a different opinion than you are in conflict with Poland? What else do you want to try to see if it works and see how much tolerance it is? Aren't you afraid that the weakening of the image will adversely affect the achievement of the goals of Polish foreign policy? [[You might want to ask what else you're gonna catch.]] Madame, I did not disturb you. [[Mrs Paluch, you're bothering everyone.]] [[You're the only one who has a license for this?]] And my last question. How much are you going to spend on paid advertising and propaganda-promotion campaigns, [[♪ The bell ♪]] to wipe out the negative image of Poland on the international stage? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u305	Thank you. I would like the floor of Mrs Agnieszka Hanajczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u306	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! 15 June 2006 The European Parliament adopted a resolution which recognised Poland as a country where there was an increase in intolerance caused by racism, xenophobia, anti-Semitism or homophobia. Undoubtedly, PiS politicians at that time contributed to this... [[Rights and Justice, Member.]] You've already been noticed. Don't disturb me. ...which very often conflicted with European standards of political culture, as well as with the Polish tradition of tolerance. Today, when I listen to some of the statements of politicians of PiS e.g. about the refugees, I feel like we're going back to the past. [[Law and Justice can't go through your throats.]] Do you plan - and how do you plan - to counteract the escalation of hatred for people with different skin colors Or different religious views? Do you also believe that Poland is becoming a xenophobic country? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[You live in some other reality.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u307	Thank you. Please take the floor... [[You could have saved yourself a little time.]] [[Mrs Paluch, we are not asking you to comment.]] Please take the floor of Mrs Lydia Gądek. [[That wasn't for you to ask.]] And I would very kindly ask Mrs Skowronska and Mrs Paluch to exchange comments... [[I return Mrs Paluch...]] ...with each other outside the Seym. You're welcome. [[No, you're gonna get your friend's attention. Since yesterday...]] I can hear you a lot more, I'm sorry. [[No, Mr. Marshal, it was an abuse.]] [[That was an objective statement of the situation.]] Please take the floor of Mrs. Lydia Gądek. [[You've got some deaf ears on the PiS.]] Please take the floor of Mrs Lydia Gądek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u308	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We are all aware that the best way to conduct international policy is to educate young people without xenophobia, without prejudice, so that our new generations do not enter into conflict. How is it that the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister Gowin, instead of strengthening international contacts in many areas, including educational exchanges, takes the funds that were earmarked for these programmes, e.g. For Erasmus? And in the Minister's speech, I didn't hear the Ministry want to replace these forms of exchange funding. According to our government, we're supposed to be getting off our knees right now, and in fact, we're gonna fall on those knees. The weakening of our position in the European Union at the same time significantly weakens our position vis-à-vis Russia. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is an obvious matter. Minister! At present, we have a major crisis at the eastern borders. Thousands of small and large Polish transport companies will not only not be able to enter the territory of the Russian Federation since February, but they can also stay there without the possibility of returning.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u309	Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u310	How do you want to prevent this crisis? Because we didn't have any information about it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u311	Thank you kindly, Member. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Anna Białkowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u312	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Minister, as you were in the opposition, you were only able to criticize the government's foreign policy activities. Tell me what you are able to negotiate more in the European Union, which the previous government has not negotiated. Are you able to negotiate higher subsidies for individual farmers as promised by the election campaign and by what date? When will you announce to Polish carriers that you have successfully solved problems of transit and cabotage across Germany? How do you intend to effectively influence the majority in the European Council and the committees in order to stop the early sale of free CO emissions? And finally, one last question. Minister, how are you going to respond to the recommendations of the Venice Commission? Are you ready as a government to withdraw from the actions carried out concerning the Constitutional Court, the media and the prosecutor's office? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u313	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Andrzej Halicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u314	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Just in relation to this question: in a week, a little more than a week will come to Poland by a delegation from the Venice Commission. We had a committee yesterday. Law and Justice will not be informed, we will not receive information directly from the Minister, but the representatives of the Ministry have confirmed that this is not classified information, which documents have already been transmitted to the Venice Commission, and which memorandum will be transmitted during this visit. I think that the intention of all clubs was for club representatives to be informed of the legal basis and the beginning of this discussion. And the simple question is, will the Minister, in accordance with this declaration, hand these documents over to the parliamentary clubs? And since I am with the voice, I would like to inform you that, in the course of today's debate, due to its course, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club requests that the information of the Minister of Foreign Affairs be rejected. This formal application is submitted to the hands of the marshal. [[Applause]] [[Predictable to the pain, sir. Nothing new. You didn't surprise us.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u315	Please take the floor of Mr Jakub Rutnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u316	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It would be possible to sum up these three months' work by the Minister - he likes PiS very much. the term - as: Polish foreign policy in ruins, because these are facts. For three months, you've really ruined what you've been able to build over the last eight years of the Civic Platform's rule. I would like to remind you of at least PLN 400 billion which has been negotiated in the new EU budget. [[Especially your friend Sikorski was building.]] Minister! In Edinburgh, you said to young Poles that it was worth coming back because the previous governments may not have tried very hard in terms of emigrants, but you did not say one thing in fact. It was between 2005 and 2007 that most Poles left Poland on their way to the Islands. What do you want to encourage them to do if your government isn't shutting them down right now because you don't like the word, but you're shutting out a program as needed as living for young people? It's not gonna happen anymore. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And I think that having an apartment is one of the priorities. Thank you very much. [[Because this programme serves the developers, Mr President, as you know.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u317	Thank you, sir. [[The secondary market is possible.]] Please take the floor of Mr Caesar Grabarczyk. Member, please. [[Mrs Paluch again, marshal.]] [[The voice in the room: ADHD is not a disease unit.]] You're welcome, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u318	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Many factors influence the way a country is perceived outside. The most important is the economy, a strong economy, but also the history of the country, culture. This perception is also influenced by the events that take place within a given country, and I am not just thinking about current politics. I also think about projects such as those prepared by the Polish Jamboree Scouts Association in 2023. The case isn't settled yet. And the question is: How does the Polish government want to help scouts to organize this event? Thank you so much for your words, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which you also devoted to the efforts of the Minister of Lodz about the Expo in 2023. This case isn't settled either. Hence my question, what can the Polish government still do...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u319	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u320	...to get the right to organize this exhibition. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u321	Thank you. And I ask for the floor of Mrs Joanna Fabisiak. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] In that case, please take the floor of Mr Michał Dworczyk. [[Voice from the room: There isn't one either.]] Here you are, Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u322	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! Ladies and gentlemen, from the so-called. Refugees and quotas are a little bit like yeti - everyone talks about them, and it is not entirely clear today how many of them are to be, under what conditions, under what rules, since when, how much money will go for it, how long to be and who will bear the consequences. I think that the state, society, citizens deserve full information and, at the same time, knowledge, which - I have the impression - is media knowledge today, not concrete knowledge, and it is worth complementing. Second thing. It is no longer a mystery that, surprisingly, there are no records of discussions, negotiations and discussions on this subject in the days of the PO. The question is why. [[How do you know that?]] Well, that's what the minister says, and I want to confirm that. [[Voice from the room: He didn't speak today.]] Does the Minister confirm that there is no such documentation? It's kind of weird, 'cause in the end, the MFA, the office works on paper. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[That's pretty standard, gentlemen.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u323	Thank you. And please take the floor of Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u324	High Izbo! Very weak speech, just as the Polish foreign policy is currently weak. After rejecting all vocabulary ornaments, unrealistic announcements and various dreams, this speech announces great problems for Poland. The European Union, of which Minister Waszczykowski spoke, is a marginalised Union, bound by the interests of individual countries, which is almost exclusively limited to the free movement of goods, services and people. The Union, according to the PiS, sounds like Vladimir Putin's dream that he will be able to play in any way atomized Community. The new head of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the new government do not understand that the only alternative to the ever closer integration of the European Union is the threat of its collapse. The presentation in many aspects was separated from the real challenges facing Polish foreign policy. We have not heard how Poland intends to rebuild the image of a democratic rule of law, destroyed in recent months by the rule of law and justice. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[By you, by you.]] A humorous theme to promote democracy abroad. The PiS government limits the role of democratic institutions in the country and demands Belarus to comply with democratic standards set by international organisations. [[Applause]] [[Thin, thin and unrealistic.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u325	Thank you. And please take the floor of Mr Zbigniew Gryglas.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u326	Mr. Marshal! Minister! You changed the term "security" in your speech by all cases. And very well, because after 25 years of stabilisation today Poland cannot 100% to feel safe. It is very good that you mentioned the issue of activating our policy towards Polonia, but remember, as someone has already pointed out before me, that Polonia is also in the West and can be very helpful, especially in economic matters. Let us also remember that we have a large group of people who at one time finished their studies in Poland and today in different countries, on different continents they are an important group. We should take care of our relationship with these people. But my question is about economic diplomacy. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What steps do you intend to take in order for this economic diplomacy to become an active diplomacy so that it is not limited solely to the appointment of departments in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u327	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Tomasz Jaskola.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u328	Mr. Marshal! Dear Minister, I have a few questions. In order to conduct a very effective foreign policy, very good staff are needed, and as far as I know, in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Ministry of Foreign Affairs there are nearly 200 people who have revealed their agential past. What will happen to them and whether they will finally cease to represent any interests of the Polish state, because I do not know whose they represent. [[Applause]] Next question. Poland has had an unsolved border conflict with the Kingdom of Denmark for 40 years. It concerns an exclusive economic zone. This makes it difficult for us, among other things. a possible strong position towards Nord Stream. When will this conflict be resolved? Third question: What are the hopes of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs... I also hope, because Częstochowa will be a branch from Łódź. a new silk trail. Fourth question: Did the Ministry of Foreign Affairs support Macedonia in its activities? Because Macedonia is a state of emergency declared because of immigrants. And one last thing: Isn't it worth thinking about our own diplomatic and consular academy? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u329	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Jack Protasiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u330	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a few questions, too. I'm gonna start with what I think is most important. In his exposé and subsequent statements, the Minister distanced himself - calling it delicately - from the ideas, ideas and effects of the Eastern Partnership, saying that an alternative idea has already been created in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In fact, with this very Euroscoptic speech presented by the Minister, saying that it is some kind of exposé not only for 2016, but for the next few years, I am very concerned. [[But realisticly, don't set up your opponent.]] I would therefore like to ask for more details about this alternative, new concept, also in the context of the words I read in the press release, that you claim that an effective Eastern policy cannot be pursued by the European Union. Second question. In the Minister's speech, in my opinion, there was no reference to relations with Lithuania, especially in the context of the problems of the Polish minority in Lithuania. Was it a conscious procedure? And a third. You also did not mention something that has been important for Poles for years, i.e. the issue of visas, the visa waiver to the United States. Did it stop being a priority or an element of the MFA's plans for the coming years? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[You've been doing this for eight years, with known results.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u331	Thank you. Mr Szymon Szynkowski, a.k.a. Szk. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u332	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Two questions. The first concerns the unsolved problem of discrimination between Polish parents in Germany by the German offices for children and young people, i.e. the so-called. Jugendamty. Does the government see the need for additional action? Because I feel like there's been neglect in recent years. And the second point is what the Platform Members are so excited about, i.e. proceedings before the Venice Commission and so-called. dialogue with the European Commission. I can honestly say that, as a European by education, I am surprised by such opinions, that the procedure that the Platform Government actually questioned in 2014 in which it was introduced is taken seriously. I would therefore like to ask whether the government will take advantage of the experience of many proceedings against other countries or on other countries that have been conducted before the Venice Commission: 13 proceedings in Hungary, three proceedings in Italy and, finally, one [[♪ The bell ♪]] conduct - the only one so far - conducted in Polish matters under the rule of the Civic Platform. The Venetian Commission carried out such proceedings in 2014. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u333	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski, club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u334	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I will talk about the international relations of Polish agriculture in the multi- and bilateral arrangement. Polish representatives need to be strengthened in the permanent representation, who deal with agricultural matters in Brussels. Without developing the subject, Brussels Stuff cannot consist of people whose only recommendation is that they were related to PSL, which bears full responsibility for the lack of effectiveness in the negotiations with the European Union. Second issue, bilateral agreements. At a time when the Minister was in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, he was prepared and launched a programme on agricultural advisors in many countries of Europe and the world - in countries where Poland may have agricultural interests. There were the jobs that were scheduled for the Ministry of Agriculture, and there were people who were pointed out. And then a broom came and threw up. One of the only delegates went to Rome - and it achieved excellent results - the rest was erased, [[♪ The bell ♪]] because the mythical belief that the Russian market would solve Polish problems was dominant. This programme needs to be returned to, and I think that good cooperation between the Foreign Ministry and the Ministry of Agriculture will allow us to resume what has once been good. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u335	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u336	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! First question: How do we reconcile the political concept of the Intermarine with the concept of good relations with the United States in the context that the concept of the Intermarine actually makes long-term economic sense when it is compatible with the concept of the new silk route? Because only then can it be used economically effectively for the long-term growth of our country's economic development. Second question: What about the price of natural gas, or in principle its renegotiation, in the context of the rapid decline in world prices for both natural gas and oil? It is said that our long-term contracts have this in common that the price of our natural gas is long-term linked to the price of oil. Oil scrubs the stomach by the bottom, but gas prices in Poland do not scrub the bottom by the stomach. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So can we look forward to renegotiating on this? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u337	Thank you, sir. I ask Mr Jan Kilian, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u338	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The aim of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is to continue political, economic cooperation with Lithuania while leading to the failure of the Lithuanian authorities to discriminate against the Polish minority. The starting point is, of course, the provisions of the Polish-Lithuanian Treaty, European standards on the rights of national minorities. We envisage stepping up political action to improve this situation, especially in the area of education. This will be accompanied by organizational support, and probably also financial support, of the Polish minority. Question: "What will happen to this Polish minority in Lithuania?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u339	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Adam Abramowicz, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u340	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! When will the small border traffic between Poland and Belarus begin? The previous government - Platforms and PSL - for 8 years could not bring this project to a happy end. There is a small border traffic at the border with Russia, there is a free movement of people at the border with Ukraine, while the border with Belarus is still impaired in this respect. It is very necessary for cultural exchange, for economic exchange, for improving human and family relations. The previous government had this opportunity because there was a time when relations between the European Union and Belarus were warmed up when this small border movement could be introduced as part of this warming, but nothing had been done. This case is still very painful for residents of Eastern Poland, [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's stuck as that spike. I ask the Minister very much that this problem be brought to an end by our government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u341	Thank you very much. The last question will be asked by Mr. Ireneus Zebra, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u342	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, over the past years we have witnessed foreign policy, and indeed, on behalf of society, but also above society, and often against the interests of society and the Polish state. In your speech, you said: "We will continue to provide citizens with direct access to information about foreign affairs. Should society only be informed about foreign affairs? Or should we better listen to the voice of the public and consult with citizens and representatives of society on important international decisions? These decisions concern citizens and their interests, e.g. decisions on admission of refugees. Don't you think that in the current situation the Polish government should hold a referendum on this matter? In addition, what steps are you going to take as Minister of Foreign Affairs in order to prevent the unjustified collection of children from Polish citizens by offices in Norway and Germany? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u343	Excuse me, one more question. Mr. Piotr Polek. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u344	Thank you. Marshal, I'm sorry I'm late. Minister...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u345	Late is not good, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u346	Minister! High Izbo! My question, Minister, will concern Polonia, people living abroad, strictly Polish schools, namely Latvia. This is where the topic came up in the club speeches. It concerns Krasław, a Polish school in Krasław. I, when I was an old man 10 years ago - mom, my county has, uh, established contacts with this city - I saw this school. And after yesterday's e-mail I received from Polonia in Krasław, I am very sorry that the institution that he called to life was dead. Marshal Andrzej Stelmachowski will cease to exist in August. My question, Minister: Is there any chance to help this school in Latvia, a Polish school in Latvia, [[♪ The bell ♪]] where classes are conducted in Polish? I do not know how many Polish schools there are in Latvia, but it would be good for the school in Krasław, where many Polish children are taught, to continue to exist in Latvia. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u347	Thank you very much. In this we have exhausted the list of Members who wanted to ask questions. Before the Minister answers the questions, I will announce a five-minute recess. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 17 mins 33 hrs. 17 min 37]] We're reconvening. We continue with item 4 on the agenda. Foreign Minister Witold Waszczykowski will speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u348	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, And Dear Disappeared! I wanted to answer in Flemish, but I don't have anyone. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for the many questions, for the relatively substantive debate, although there were a lot of public statements in it, some were even ideological. I was given charades to solve, many questions were rhetorical, some Members obviously overslept and did not listen to me, did not see my speech and did not read or at least read with understanding. Therefore, I would just like to remind you that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not build border crossings, does not build trains, does not open railway lines, does not provide bicycles in Mazury, etc. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] So that many, many questions were asked to completely different resorts, about the price of oil, gas and other serious things... I can't answer that. There were also many myths raised about the fact that over the years Poland enjoyed trust, great image, position, was strong in the Union, once there was a concept, today there is chaos. I will ask: Why are there a hundred and dozen questions about foreign policy after 8 years of government today? After eight years, there are a hundred and dozen questions. Who are these questions to? Me? After two months? Me? I just started. I couldn't compensate for the payments, I couldn't open these transitions, I could even up relations with Russia, with Belarus, with Ukraine, I could take out the Weimar triangles, Kaliningrad triangles and others. These were tasks for two ministers who held power for eight years. Why are there now, after eight years of government by these ministers, a hundred and dozen questions in such different areas? I'll try to answer some of them. I've grouped them together. The first thing I'm gonna do is start with Germany. I think I was listening to the German ambassador, so I'll answer. 25 years of our relationship will be celebrated, celebrated. The case is not threatened, it is coordinated by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and all those issues which have been discussed in recent months, how to celebrate this anniversary, are currently being discussed. Some will be, perhaps, adapted more or better or worse to some deadlines, because time is running and we all have different issues that are also imposed from the outside. I am not talking about bilaterals, but about things that are external at the moment imposed in Europe and we need to adapt. If I was talking about remanence, it was the investigation into these celebrations of 25 years to review the issues that need, perhaps complement, explain. I've already talked to Minister Steinmeier about this. I talked about education, I talked about the Jugendamts, we talked about how to start solving issues that haven't been solved over the years, because no one put them up, because over the years you thought: 25 years of victory and freedom - you have to enjoy it. Today, these issues begin to arise. Many issues concerning the region, the Visegrad Group, the Intermarine, the Carpathian Mountains, etc. I spent a lot of passion during the speech, explaining that yes, we want to focus on working with the region, not instead of working with someone. We simply want this region to be solidarity-based, to be integrated within existing institutions. No one wants to move the region out of the Union. Nobody wants to get the region out of NATO. We want this region not to be the peripheries of NATO and not the peripheries of the European Union. That's why we have so many ideas about infrastructure and environmental programs, because mountains and divide, and combine, the tourist that you have been asking for, because mountains are also a tourist attraction. It is to be a region that is to function as a united region, not just as a periphery of today's European Union, the centre of which is in the Paris-Berlin-Brussels triangle. We would also like to be a normal, credible, developed part of the European Union, not just its end. A few more issues from the bilateral regions. Of course, the important issue is Lithuania, Poles, education. We say to the Lithuanians unambiguously: You are in the European Union, you have accepted commitments, acqui communautaire, standards, standards of the Council of Europe and we want you to fulfil them. You have also made bilateral commitments and we would like you to implement them, bind them. We do not accept the Lithuanian approach: because at the moment we are threatened by an empire from the East, we must unite, forget these unresolved issues, wait for better times. No, we say the opposite: the threat from the East cannot be an excuse for not fulfilling the commitments made by the Lithuanian State towards Poles and towards Europe. [[Applause]] I'll tell you about Belarusian matters when I get back from Minsk. Lions. As far as I can tell from Deputy Minister Dziedziczak, the case is pending. In a few weeks, the Minister will be conducting an inspection and I hope the case will be resolved. As regards the meeting with the Russians, it was a working meeting and the details of the working meeting are not discussed, it is not publicly presented, it is not made public because it is working. It starts a series of other meetings, opens it. It was also a remanent of things that divide us and unite us. Some decisions are made: how to carry out the next meetings so that perhaps some of these problems can be resolved. Smolensk. Nothing has changed in our conduct. We believe and continue this message to the Russians: The longer you hold the wreckage, the more you confirm us that the catastrophe looked different than the two reports described it, the more you confirm us in the belief or suspicion that you have something to hide. [[Applause]] The position is clear. Sanctions, when we talk about Russian issues, continue until the end of this six-month period. They've just been imposed and extended. It is therefore still too early to discuss whether they will be extended in June. There is still hope, although it was scarce that the Minsk agreement that Ukraine would regain control of Donbas will regain control of the Donbas border - Russia, that the Russians would withdraw from Donbass... Hope is still there, they'll be in the next few months, but they're not. Therefore, we need to give opportunities to those formats that work - while both sides are still willing to cooperate, we do not seek to create new formats, to replace them. We give these formats a chance to achieve, implement these issues. As far as Russia and the region are concerned, one of you raised the issue of the group on difficult matters, the question of Mr Rotfeld, but he quoted not my words. Because I was just expressing concern in various media that the group had been out of operation for a long time. Professor Rotfeld himself decided to leave this group. Well, that's the way it is. This is a professional diplomat, for years, professional expert in international affairs, security and relations, Russian politics. So he felt that if for many, many months the group under his direction did not function, then we should give a chance either to another format or to other people. So this is his obvious decision. The third issue that has often been addressed is migration and refugees. I was talking about it in my exposé, it was a significant passus, so let me just remind you a little bit. We distinguish between refugees and migrants. As far as migrants are concerned, this position is increasingly common in Europe: all those who come from outside the war area, such as Syria, part of Iraq or Libya, are not eligible for refugee status. As a result, more and more countries in Europe are deciding on those who have been classified as immigrants, illegal immigrants, their return, their deportation. However, I made it clear: someone who is qualified under international law and has been granted refugee status, has the right to apply for political refugee status, has the right to apply for political asylum in Poland, provided that he wishes to do so and meets the security criteria that are established by the Polish security services, by the Polish security apparatus. The fourth segment, which was discussed, is Polonia issues. There was a question about the budget, why the Foreign Ministry was taken away. Because he was taken from the Senate earlier. [[Applause]] The Senate claimed it because in Polish tradition for years it was so that a part of the money directed for Polonia was owned by the Senate. There is also, of course, money in the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for consular care, which also concerns this, partly dealing with Polish issues. Therefore, such traditions are in Poland, we will manage. We talked a lot about Poles in Germany here. I was talking about the fact that I already had a conversation with Minister Steinmeier. He promised that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and other departments would engage with Polish organizations. He promised that they would look at this in Germany and apply positive solutions that were applied at the eastern border of Germany, where many Polish children are taught in German schools. We will hold to our word and in the coming months, when various Polish-German meetings take place, we will continue to ask that question. The question is, can we organize Polonia? The answer - we do not organize Polonia because we do not organize the lives of Poles where they live. We can help them, we can respond to their needs, to their requests. On the other hand, if they live abroad, they are citizens of the countries concerned, they live in accordance with the laws of the countries concerned and have the opportunity to organise themselves in accordance with the laws of the countries concerned, we can help them. As far as the school issue in Latvia is concerned, we have already initiated an intervention. The case has been moved a few months and we hope that it will be decided positively within a few months. As I mentioned, a number of questions that have been addressed to me concerning issues such as promotion, culture, for example, can be addressed to other resorts. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has a role to play here and uses materials that are most often prepared by other departments to disseminate information about Poland. We have already undertaken close cooperation with the Deputy Prime Minister of Gliński, and we want to ensure that Poland finally has a historical policy, a cultural policy directed towards the world, directed both to Poland and foreigners. [[Applause]] In this spirit, we think of serious reforms of Polish institutes, so that they are institutes that will conduct a broad policy in both segments, directed to foreigners and Poles simultaneously, living side by side, so that the Pole who is in the world can come to the cultural institute and also see the Polish newspaper, watch or rent a Polish film even to show it to his friends, foreigners or neighbors, those with whom he lives or is neighbouring. So there can be no such situation that these are just institutes aimed at some kind of elite contact with the society of the country where they are organized. Mrs. Augustine asked about schooling. It seems to me, because I think she was the vice minister of education, that I should probably be the one asking her... [[She was, wasn't she?]] ...about certain things. [[Applause]] If we're on a promotion, culture, I'd like to say that I was recently paid for interviews and articles. We're not paying for my interviews and articles, and I'm giving up my gas right now. [[Applause]] The Venice Commission is our initiative and, as someone has accused, it does not result from the fact that I doubt Polish democracy or the actions of the Polish government. We just didn't want to lead to such a situation that it was somewhere in the country, through some inspiration, inspiring some institutions, NGOs... [[It's backstage.]] ...makes the Venice Commission accuse us, come and settle us. We invited, as a government, the Venice Commission, we invited the Venice Commission so that together with the Polish government, together with the Polish institutions, not quietly, through some informal institutions, we could examine the state of democracy. The Venice Commission is not a European institution, it is an advisory body at the Council of Europe, it is an advisory body. [[But will you follow the recommendations?]] The final result is recommendations, which later negotiates with the government, how to possibly implement them - which you did not want to implement, when she recommended it to you after the Warsaw elections, right? So do not accuse us in advance that we will not take anything when you yourself rejected her recommendations. [[Applause]] [[We didn't negotiate it.]] Many questions were about the economy. I will remind you that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not, of course, pursue economic policy, but as in the case of culture, promotion and others, it can help. Unfortunately, as I said in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, although I am the third month Minister of Foreign Affairs, no company, no representative of a great Polish business company or institution connecting businessmen did not catch the phone and did not call me: Minister, help us, because here furniture, window frames, bottles and other things that we have produced and would like to put on a train in Łódź, which is going to Chengdu to sell all of this. I'm here to help. [[Maybe we need to make the call ourselves, Minister.]] I'm here to help. [[You've got to be kidding me.]] [[A sense of realism.]] I'll go anywhere, to every country, the most exotic, if anyone gives me an offer that I can promote. Without the offer I will not invent a product in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I will not make a product from a stick which will be a Polish brand. It's the Polish business that should create a brand, and I'm here to advertise this brand. [[Applause]] I'm ready to do it. Just as we have already started working with several resorts, just with Minister Jurgiel, with the Ministry of Agriculture, how to jointly launch the promotion of Polish food or some things, you can continue, right, because before we managed to sell many Polish food products successfully. As I am currently working with Deputy Prime Minister Morawiecki to actually create institutions for Polish diplomacy that will promote the Polish economy. There is one Polish diplomacy. It cannot be that several resorts will have their own diplomacy abroad, as in previous years. If we're talking diplomacy, we're talking about HR at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. No one will be fired unless disciplinaryly deserves it, while executive positions, executive positions in institutions, including ambassadors, I said this during the election campaign, are not protected jobs. [[That's right.]] If someone is in a position of leadership, it does not mean that they must be held for life. However, he can take a different position, including in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, not necessarily in charge. Does that mean cleanup? No. This means a staff policy that I will adapt to the implementation of my foreign policy. It's just that. [[Applause]] Several yet very political issues such as bases and security policy. I have discussed this very thoroughly, so in short, it was Mr Dziuba who raised the problem that, in the late 1990s, the North Atlantic Alliance made a political declaration in Paris, which has two sort of paths, two proposals. One is that, with enlargement, with the accession of new members to NATO Russia, a privileged relationship with the Alliance will be proposed in parallel. These privileged relations with the Alliance led after several years to the creation of an institution called NATO-Russia Council. For several years it has not functioned for obvious reasons. First Russia did not want to participate in this Council and then NATO, after the aggression on Ukraine, suspended talks within the Council. We don't question that part of the declaration. We believe that some form of talks with Russia, contact with Russia should work, although the Russians understand consultations differently. We understand consultation as information. Often the Russians understand consultations as joint decisions. However, in parallel to this project, NATO's privileged relations with Russia and Russia with NATO, the Western partners also declared that nuclear weapons and significant military troops would not be stationed in the new members' territories, nor would significant defence facilities be built. We believe that this part of the declaration is obsolete today because it was made in completely different international conditions of a completely different Russia, in 1997, which did not express such imperial behaviour. Furthermore, we believe that we can discuss what it means to be meaningful. Is divisional deployment significant or not? Here discussions are underway within NATO, which is to be the nature of this presence, what character of weapons, which can be stationed in Poland, and how it will be mentioned, to ensure permanent presence through the exchange of troops, sub-groups for which there will be no bases, cities, which still exist or still exist today. in Germany, in the western part of Germany. So, if someone says there will be no bases, then within the meaning of such military cities as they used to operate in Germany. On the other hand, we are talking about a constant presence, which can be through rotation, exchange de facto, so that every day in Poland actually there are soldiers, allies. That's what it's all about. Shortly, the border guard of the European Union. We are in favour of strengthening the external borders, but the problem is that the Union would like to create an extraordinary mechanism, i.e. that such border guards would be directed to the external border of a country even without the agreement of the country concerned. We believe that this is a precedent that could lead to the fact that, in other ways, the Commission, which was not elected in democratic elections across Europe, would decide on a political or economic solution in other areas. [[Applause]] [[How to seal this border in Greece?]] There are so many groups of questions. Of course, we have written down all of these questions and we will try to answer them in writing. [[Do we get these documents for the Venice Commission?]] The Venice Commission is coming to Poland on 8 February. And I will, I will, even now I think she has expressed her willingness to meet parliamentarians. You'll all get the materials. [[We want to get ready.]] These are the materials you've approved. [[There's a memorandum he's preparing...]] This is a memorial prepared by government institutions. Any institution that the Venice Commission wants to visit can present its narrative. You can also present or present yourself to these institutions. [[But we want to...]] If we present such a narrative, of course we will pass it on to you, you will also get to know it. [[That's what I'm asking, thank you.]] These are mostly the things I wanted to talk about. Shortly at the end. You have, the opposition, this main opposition, still a certain confusion at the moment, because you are not very able to understand, accept these stereotypes or lack these stereotypes. [[You're the one with the problem with us.]] You pinned it on us, you stigmatized us, telling us months ago that if the PiS came to power, there would be a war with Russia. He's not with Russia, is he? Then you have to do the opposite narration. Oh, that's what they love about Putin, then. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] So bad, so bad. They sent a delegation at the working level, bought some oil, which means it's evidence that they're up to Putin, right? Oh, no. Now if... [[Because it's too expensive.]] ...they bought the cheapest one because it's... The possibilities of oil diversification are because if you... [[That was the exact price.]] [[Above the market.]] These are commercial terms, that's not what we're talking about. I don't even know it because Orlen buys it. [[But you don't want to tell me.]] But we didn't know how you and Pawlak negotiated the price of gas for several years. Did you tell anyone? Did you tell anyone? You didn't say. [[Applause]] You've covered yourselves with trade secrets. [[Voice from the room: Former committee.]] I wanted to say, because I spent twenty years as an active diplomat at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and other institutions, for thirty years I have been teaching diplomacy, which is the problem. I don't want to go into the distant past, the beginnings of our sovereignty, say, a dozen years. Following the SLD, the main direction of cooperation was the United States. The Democratic Left Alliance, which is no longer in Parliament today, wanted to be credible and was often more radical, pro-American than everyone else, hence the betting on one card. You have found one of your politicians to be a black man working with Americans. [[Yes.]] We are going the other way, close cooperation with Germany will draw us to the decision-making centre of the European Union. You put it on the second card. We, in line with the recommendations of a humble lecturer and an official of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, believe that diplomacy is a game on many pianos and we want to continue working with the Germans, we want to join this cooperation of the Great Britain, we want to maintain the Weimar Triangle. [[Applause]] We don't want to keep the Kaliningrad triangle because it's a political zombie. We want to extend our cooperation to different areas of regional cooperation. We want to be in all these regional structures: Balkans, Central Europeans, with the Baltics or with the Nordic countries. It's called playing a lot of pianos. It's called in business that you don't put all the assets into one basket, it just breaks down to be able to cooperate. You've focused on one thing. You destroyed the instruments of impact by withdrawing, for example. The troops of all operations, because you thought it wasn't an instrument of political play and so on. This is an instrument of political play. I could give a little longer lecture here because some people could use it, but I'd like to invite you to the Foreign Office for an open door. Then we'll talk more about what professional diplomacy should look like. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u349	Thank you, Minister. That concludes the point. The discussion is closed. A request for rejection was made in the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We move on to the next item on the agenda. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on amending the Law on the departments of government administration and some other laws (print No 211). I ask Mr Maciej Małecki to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u350	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As a result of the amendment of the Law on Government Administrations, it was created a new department: energy, the Ministry of Energy was established and the Minister of Energy is appointed. In view of these changes, it is necessary to equip the Minister of Energy with the competences and powers which have so far been assigned to the Minister responsible for economic affairs, as this is the department that handled energy issues. Therefore, I present a draft law amending the law on government departments and some other laws. The aim of the project is to make appropriate changes to the laws which have so far assigned the tasks and competences of the Minister responsible for Economic Affairs. We can divide these changes into three areas. The first area is to adapt the competences which have so far been with the Minister responsible for economic affairs, and now, as a result of the adoption of the Law on Departments, should belong to the Minister of Energy. These changes include a modification of the provisions of the laws which replace directly the competence of the Minister of Economy by the powers of the Minister of Energy. The list of laws is in the justification of the project. The second area is the revision of the legislation aimed at including the Minister responsible for Energy in consultation and agreement procedures, ensuring that the Energy Minister is adequately represented in certain energy collegial bodies and the obligation to provide the Energy Minister with documents and reports. These changes include the opinion of the application for permission to build or use artificial islands, structures and equipment in Polish maritime areas and the laying and maintenance of cables or pipelines in the exclusive economic zone, the obligation to submit quarterly reports on the liquid fuels and biofuels market by the President of the Energy Regulatory Office and the President of the Agricultural Market Agency, the provision of a representative of the Minister of Energy in the composition of the Government Crisis Management Team and the composition of the Development Cooperation Programme Board and the provision of participation in the development of the Government's Strategic Reserve Programme. The third area is the change, which is a novelty among the tasks and competences of the Minister responsible for energy matters and comes from the concept, by essence, of the mission of the new ministry. These changes include, among others, supervision of the President of the Higher Mining Authority, supervision of energy companies, including oil and mining companies, provided that the companies involved in the transmission of energy: electricity, gas and the oil pipeline operation company Friendship remain the responsibility of the government's proxy for strategic energy infrastructure. The Minister of Energy also has the right to control investments in this area, to give an opinion on issues relating to the financing of mining. The draft shall contain transitional and adaptation provisions. It contains rules that temporarily maintain implementing acts issued on the basis of provisions authorising them to be amended. The period during which the existing implementing acts will apply is the time to issue implementing acts on the basis of amended provisions, but no longer than 24 months from the date of entry into force of the Act. The Act is expected to enter into force 14 days after its publication. Except for the transfer of supervisory powers of the State Treasury over energy companies, these provisions are due to enter into force from 1 April 2016. High Izbo! I am convinced that this project will allow not only for the smooth functioning of the Ministry of Energy, but also for the implementation of the objectives to which the Ministry of Energy has been set up, i.e. the consolidation in one place of matters related to the widely understood energy industry, the improvement of energy security of Poland, as well as the smoother implementation of regulations which in the field of energy impose European regulations. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u351	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Marek Suski, Mr Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u352	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour on behalf of the Law and Justice Club to review the draft law on government departments and some other laws. In fact, there is little I can add to what the applicant has said, because it is our club project and it would be difficult for us to have any special comments on the project we have submitted. So I will say at the outset that we fully support this project. This is a change, as the previous speaker said, adapting powers to the new structure of the government, as well as ownership supervision of the respective Treasury companies and economic sectors in terms of That's the energy. I will also say two words about what happened when it comes to the decision to set up the Ministry of Energy, which was caused by it. It can be said that, for many years, the world has been facing an alternative to where to find energy sources and to prevent climate change, and in many countries, there are resorts that deal with energy, where companies, companies, climate issues are under one authority, concerning mines, energy, heating, energy transmission, gas or oil, precisely to ensure that there is coordination in a situation where today, one can say, the strategic good is energy, energy sources, fossil fuels or liquid fuels. Following this path, the Government of Law and Justice has just decided to create a resort that will take care of energy security, which is, you can say, strategic for the development of the country and the security of citizens, while at the same time ensuring that energy resources, their processing, electricity generation are as cheap as possible so that citizens can benefit from cheap energy or cheap fuel. This affects not only the cost of living, but also the possibility of economic development, because those costs that are to be borne by every activity are also due to the need for heating, and our climate zone is concerned that most of the year needs to be heated, and yet there is a fact that this summer there are such temperatures that we also need to have air conditioning. Thus, the continuous increase in energy demand must be of particular interest to the government, which is responsible for ensuring such security. Therefore, this law basically changes so much in different laws that there is a switch between different ministers who have so far dispersed the entire energy industry, and there is a switch It's for the Minister of Energy. I think that adapting such a structure, as in other countries that want to take care of energy, and bringing together all these companies, businesses, departments or energy agencies, will be beneficial in one resort. It will also help to resolve, maybe not immediately and not fully, but strongly mitigate what is happening today in mining, which has been very dimmed, and in the last eight years even aimed at the liquidation of Polish mining. We remember the words of Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz, who said that it was necessary to close the mines, to destroy our national treasure, the coal mining industry. Following... [[She never said that.]] We remember that. We remember... [[Whoever did, but the Prime Minister didn't say it.]] ...as the Prime Minister said, the miners went out on the street and you shot them, you might say, first... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Yes, with rubber bullets, gentlemen, you shot the miners, so please don't say such things here.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u353	Mr. President, why don't we go back to...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u354	Marshal, I'm so sorry. [[♪ The bell ♪]] But I'm answering.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u355	I'd ask for no polemics in the O.R. This is your speech, and I'm asking you to take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u356	I answer to the quarrels of an MP who, from the benches of Parliament, referred to my speech...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u357	Just don't answer any of the questions, sir. Stay calm.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u358	...so that I would ask you very much to draw your marshal's attention to the Members, that, however, we should not interfere with the speeches made by the speakers. [[There's a line.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u359	I'm asking for peace in the courtroom.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u360	Thank you very, very much, Your Marshal, High Izbo, and the fact that you shot the miners is undisputed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u361	Thank you, sir, but I would ask that we refer to the content of the bill. [[But that's exactly what the bill was about.]] I think the bill is about guns, as I recall. Mr Marek Wójcik, Civic Platform, will be the second to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u362	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We certainly didn't shoot the miners, sir, and that's how it looks. Please do not introduce such a thread in this discussion at all. On the other hand, back to the bill. In the last two months, this is the third amendment of the law on government departments. This law is a fine example of how lawmaking is being applied in this term. The amendment of the law on administrative departments of November last year also concerned changes related to the creation of the Ministry of Energy. Then we asked the draft to be sent to the committee to work calmly on it, to catch all the necessary consequences in other laws relating to the creation of the Ministry of Energy. Unfortunately, the PiS club decided otherwise. You decided to consider that law in the first, second and third readings in plenary, without directing it to committee, at an express rate of 53 minutes. Today's need to amend the Government Departments Act is in fact the result of the PiS's disregard for all opposition Members' proposals, as well as a completely irrational rush to work on the November Act. Therefore, your Marshal, now in the work on this law, I submit an application on behalf of the Civic Platform Club to refer the bill to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, because we believe that important matters such as the Law on Departments should simply be worked calmly and substantively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u363	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Andrzej Czerwinski, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u364	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I want to add some information, because in this tone of universal peace something is happening that needs to be separated from the substantive work of ministers. And here I would respectfully like to say that you gentlemen must do hard work, but you have been involved in politics. This is a typical policy that's happening here in the courtroom. Why? Because it was said that Poland is mismanaged, that a new power will come, otherwise it will organize it. And what does the organization of work in the new edition look like? The Ministry of Treasury and the Ministry of Economy have three independent administrative entities: the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, the Ministry of Energy and the Government's Representative for Strategic Energy Infrastructure. As we can see, all the bodies and companies, organizational units, which were the first to be dealt with? Personal exchange. We have a few organizational units that have continuity of management. We have the chaos of management, because like people, hundreds of people, even thousands of people who still have a changed boss, do not know exactly who will decide their fate and future, do they have to make decisions every day? In such a difficult field as energy, the economy of wealth, it simply cannot be chaos. And by the information addressed to the people that Law and Justice are prepared to exercise power, that it has all the laws ready, that the Ministry of the Treasure will be liquidated - there was information that from day to day the state will be better managed - we have chaos. The chaos introduced to such an extent that companies, undertakings, entities, companies that have had tasks so far have been accounted for, are now floundering, going from Annas to Caiaphas, to present reports to which they are legally obliged to submit, to increasingly new created administrative entities. When it comes to mining and what is happening in Silesia, what is the result? actions and decisions of the Government of Law and Justice? Well, in the Ministry of Energy we will have additional general directors of mining. This is the result of these actions. Why? Because the Minister and the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy under the law will be general directors of mining. So we're looking at what's going on - change is good for administration. Administration is growing, and those who perform specific tasks have fewer and fewer tools to carry out these tasks. Finally, on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I would like to say that I am counting on you ministers to carry out these tasks, but your subjects. [[♪ The bell ♪]] you have become the pressure of a policy that has created a powerful chaos in an important area of the state economy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u365	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Grzegorz Długi, the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u366	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I guess my previous speaker, when he said energy, meant energy, old habits, but I have to agree with some of his thesis, namely that the pace of certain things does not help in creating good law and sometimes, even as these are technical issues as in this project, we are not able to examine thoroughly, working at such a rate, whether it is for sure what it is about, and whether it is not here. Another mistake, as this bill is the result of a few weeks ago, a few weeks ago... a few weeks ago, actually. However, some things should be done comprehensively for the future, and this will help to avoid misunderstandings and difficulties. A transition period is never easy. If we change competences in the administration, it's already chaos, so to speak. In a situation where we create a new ministry from different parts of other ministries, this chaos will be very serious if it is not prepared, if the legal, organisational, technical instruments are not prepared, and it is probably not all prepared. However, this does not change the fact that it is necessary to work on this, the decisions that this ministry is being made, and others will change, have been taken, and we therefore propose that this law be referred to a committee where we can work together to make sure that everything has been done. At the same time, we are looking forward to the decision on the deadline when the Treasury Ministry will be removed, because certain things should be done immediately. If it is to be eliminated, there are others on the basis of it, then let's do it, with one organizational pain, everything that needs to be done, and the fact that it's actually going to cost us all is a different matter. In this situation, High Izbo, Kukiz15, asks that this draft be submitted to the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u367	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u368	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the modern club, I am pleased to present my position on the draft law amending the law on government departments and some other laws, print No 211. This submission concerns changes in 26 laws and is a consequence of the earlier establishment of the power unit in the government administration and the change in the competences of ministers, and therefore the changes made, as indicated in the justification of the project, are in principle adjustmental in nature... [[Technical.]] ...technical. However, it draws attention to the transfer to the Minister for Energy of the powers of the State Treasury in respect of energy companies, as well as to the subsidiaries of those companies in which the State Treasury is entitled to shares and shares. In principle, there is one substantive change contained in Article. Point 2 (2) concerns the new wording of paragraph 2. Article 1 27 Law on maritime areas of the Republic of Poland and maritime administration. Here, in principle, the order of conditions that can be arranged and maintained is changed, but it also seems to be irrelevant, because these conditions must eventually be met together. With regard to the transitional provisions for the ordering of implementing acts, a period of 24 months has been set. However, it seems too long, in my view a 12-month deadline would suffice, because there is no need to prolong the state of uncertainty here. And the final note. We already knew about the creation of the Energy Ministry in November. There was really a lot of time to prepare this act, and yet this act is being added to us again, in a hurry and we are actually proceeding in a very short time, because this bill was given a number yesterday, or at hours. 15. Well, that's a really, once again, frivolous approach to creating a good law. The Modern Club, of course, requests that the bill be referred to the committee responsible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u369	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, PSL Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u370	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This project needs to be investigated, because we have no choice at the moment, because a new ministry has been created, it is all, as the predecessors have said, during such suspension and chaos, which is natural on the one hand, and on the other hand is caused by haste and lack of preparation. This was said in the election campaign, as I recall, there will be a new ministry, that there will be full coordination. I am therefore surprised that this is a parliamentary project, that it is not a government project, that it is not a ministerial project. Why? What am I afraid of? That's because they're difficult problems. There is coordination of many, many institutions, influence - I know something about it - and right now we can lose some things. If it were a government project and had passed no longer a public consultation, but an inter-ministerial consultation, then every minister would have the opportunity to speak and to suggest even something. Oh, here are the powers of such, here such, this institution, this institution, could then be avoided some negative consequences. One must agree with the fact that energy is an important branch of our economy, very important, and here there can be no gaps that will cause everyone to suffer for it. We had an example this summer, the climate is changing, but we're also running out of energy, and if this hot summer comes and the Vistula gets dry, it's not even for technical reasons, but for low water reasons, the power plants are going to have problems that couldn't have been predicted before, because that wasn't the situation and no one predicted them. Energy demand continues to increase and this energy needs to be replenished quickly. I fear that, with this process, if we do not have the positions of other departments, there has been no wider inter-ministerial consultation, it may turn out that in a month we will continue to revise this law. It better not be, but I'm afraid it might be. Well, the target is elevated, as it's said here, to help mining, etc. I am in favour of making the miners as successful as possible, we will work on this project, but from the project itself and from the change of name and transfer of one institution to another, from one place to another, it will certainly not improve. It takes a lot of energy and a lot of strength to keep things from getting out of hand. Next thing you know, it's a RES thing. There's a state of suspension, and right now there's also... and uncertainty about what's next. There is no clear position on how renewable energy will be produced in the near future, as is the case with prosumer. In the last term of office PiS supported these solutions, the Prosumer Act was passed, even the Platform did not support it, PiS supported this proposal, we approved it, and today is a state of suspension and quite a concern. Just a lack of knowledge for six months after that. I am no longer talking about detailed solutions, but at all about the direction in which these solutions will go. Mrs. Marshal! The Polish People's Party is for really good proceding, so that it is not such a rush, because it is really better to work a week or 2 weeks longer, and to make a good bill and so that, as I said, in a month's time, we do not start again on this subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u371	Thank you very much, sir. That's what we've run out of club appearances. Six Members joined the questions. Would any of you like to sign up for any more questions? Then do it. I'm closing the list. The first question will be asked by Mr Jerzy Gosiewiski, Law and Justice. Time, two minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u372	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the Minister! This draft law on the amendment of the Law on the departments of government administration and some other laws provides for amendments to 26 laws, and therefore there is an answer to why these 26 laws cannot be changed diametrically, but at the moment we are dealing with one specific topic. We are creating the Ministry of Energy, this is the solution expected because it is known that energy will be increasingly needed in the future. In most laws, we change the powers and rights of the Minister of Economy, the Minister of Energy, that is right. And my question is only about amending the Geological and Mining Law, because there some of the tasks of the Minister of Environment are transferred to the Ministry of Ecology. And this job done, it's mostly about... [[Another one?]] ...the President of the Higher Mining Authority, is bound by the law of control of the performance of tasks in the field of geology in mining. So my question to the Minister for Energy: How and according to what procedures do you plan to work with the Minister of the Environment on the tasks performed by the President of the Higher Mining Authority and its subordinate organisational structures? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u373	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u374	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today's project is another parliamentary project, which amends the records in twenty-several laws. And let me remind you that in the previous project, this November of last year, there was an amendment of the provisions in thirty-several laws. At that time, applicants pointed to the need for changes so as not to interfere with the work of the resorts created. And that's what we agreed on. On the other hand, we disagreed with all-out chaos, mess, the preparation of parliamentary projects on our knees and the subsequent first, second and third readings at one meeting within 56 minutes. Mr. Fifty-six minutes, that's what happened. But then there were also arguments that a government amendment, a large project, was being prepared. And I wanted to ask you about this government presentation. Is it really being prepared? When can we expect this project? Will it not be so that there will be further parliamentary projects amending the records in the next dozens of different laws? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u375	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Mark Suski, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u376	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I basically wanted to ask a question, it's true, referring to a slightly broader scope than just the law, a little related to the theory of relativity in politics and in the work of the bill. I've heard accusations here that there's been a lot of time since November to prepare that it's been a long time. And now I hear it's too fast. So it all depends on how it's assessed, dear friend of the Kukiz club15. Indeed, it was done quickly at that time. Now it is also fast, only that not as fast as then, because today we have the first reading, and the second reading will be at the next sitting. Relax, then, for two weeks Members will have to read the contents of the Act. So that there is no fear that we will not know what we are working on, although the law was actually introduced at this meeting of the Sejm and the first reading takes place at this meeting of the Sejm. But it's not a very fast path. About... [[That's what we're gonna do.]] ...quietness during work - because here it was said that it was a quiet job and that that's why we have a speech to refer it to the administration committee - I remember how various things were happening in the administration committee, there was rather no peace there. I wanted to ask the applicant whether, in fact, such scenes as they were in the administration committee took place on the energy committee, because I do not recall them. It's more like we work there. [[We were supposed to take it back.]] Although sometimes the opposition had a different opinion, there were no such scenes as in the administration committee. Finally, I also wanted to thank Mr PSL, who really appreciates the importance of energy and raises the fact that there have been [[♪ The bell ♪]] Blackouts. So I wanted to ask the applicant: Will this bill allow the threat of blackout to be reduced when supervision of this resort is in one hand? And as for the knowledge of energy, it is actually PSL that has it. He had a specialist in John Bury's field. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u377	Thank you very much. In corrigendum - Mr Wójcik. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u378	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Well, Mr President, I have no idea what scenes in the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs the Member is talking about, especially since it is the policy of law and justice that is chairing this committee. I think that in this term of office the work on this committee looked like [[Applause]] It's really quite decent. On the other hand, we have considered withdrawing our proposal because we have learned that the Marshal of the Sejm has proposed that this project be sent to the Energy Commission. But after such an attack on the part of the Member, unfortunately, we cannot withdraw this proposal. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u379	Thank you very much. The next question is asked by Rafał Wójcikowski, Kukiz Club15. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u380	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have two questions. First question. Since supervision of the Higher Mining Authority, the President of the Higher Mining Authority, passes to the Ministry of Energy, so I understand that supervision of the safety of the copper mining sector also passes to the Ministry of Energy. Yeah, I get it? That's the first question. Second question. Since the supervision of energy companies is transferred to the Ministry of Energy, dividend policy in respect of companies of the Treasury, which was the domain of the Ministry of Treasury - and dividend policy is an important component of the creation of revenue of the state budget in the case of energy companies, which ensure the impact of large dividends on the state budget - also passes to the Ministry of Energy. Therefore, is a change in the dividend policy of energy companies to be expected under new supervision? Please answer the second question in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u381	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Mirosław Suchon, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u382	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In the beginning, I would like to express my appreciation for Mr Suski's oratory abilities. [[Thank you.]] For 5 minutes, the Member was kind to present the position of the club, in which two opinions were a response to this project, and then you raised climate issues and various other issues that were not too much in common with the project... [[You don't know anything about energy.]] ...and in addition, the Member was kind for two minutes to ask a question about the project that you yourself signed. This also requires recognition, so that congratulations, Mr President. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] On the other hand, I would like to share your general attention. Ladies and gentlemen, for a few weeks now, Members of the Law and Justice have been going on the media and saying that they are putting together a lot of projects. And you're actually putting together these projects, but the scheme is that the first project is a material project that unfortunately contains a lot of mistakes. You do not listen to the opposition, which points out mistakes, asks us to discuss and correct this together. You vote it out, you sign it, and then there's a lot of laws that fix the mistakes that were in the previous laws that we talked about. Well, that's my reflection. If we work at this rate, we will indeed break our world record in passing laws during this term. But that's not the point, ladies and gentlemen. Poles expect that we will process the projects so thoroughly that ready-made laws, which do not contain errors, come out immediately. I remember yesterday when we asked for a thorough analysis at the previous committee meetings during the previous session of the Sejm, for us to sit down and examine these projects. You were deaf to these calls. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, once again, please listen to the opposition. If four clubs tell the Law and Justice that something is wrong, then you have to sit down, you have to take a walk, maybe just like last night, the Minister can sleep with this project and go back to talking again. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u383	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Marek Suski submitted a corrigendum.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u384	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to correct, because I do not think the Member has fully understood me. Speaking of climate, I was talking about issues relating to carbon dioxide emissions, charges for carbon dioxide emissions reduction, which is precisely thanks to modern technologies that can be used in energy, precisely thanks to the accumulation of these different companies under one supervision can be reduced. This has a huge impact on the price of energy, so this is closely related to energy issues. I hope you understand that this is not separated from the scope of the law, which is talking about energy. As for the recognition of skills, thank you very much, Mr President, and I would also like to point out that you also have these skills, because you did not refer much to the law, but only to various other issues, so that you are a good student. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u385	Thank you very much, sir. Please, the last question will be asked by Mr Grzegorz Matusiak, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u386	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In the previous act, the competences of the Minister of Economy and the Minister of the Environment were often inconsistent. Will the bill that is being processed today change and put these problems in order? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u387	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. [[Applause]] Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski, Minister of Energy, will speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u388	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to state that the reality often goes beyond planning and expectations, by referring to the questions that have been addressed to the government, to me as Minister of Energy. That's what happens. Referring to the comments made in the framework of the club speeches, to the statements made by Minister Czerwiński, I would like to stress that the administration did not expand in connection with the creation of the Ministry of Energy for this reason. The Ministry was created on the basis of posts transferred together with employees from individual resorts. [[Guilty ministry.]] In this way, we are at the end stage of his organisation, and even though it has been pointed out to me that if the ministry is created under the assumption that the management will be taken over by a minister without a briefcase, he will rather receive these inferior employees from other departments, because the ministers of these departments or department directors want them to be the best, I think that despite such opinions, the team I have is able to cope with the tasks. Of course, it all has to be organized as in any band. Slowly this ministry begins to function, fulfilling the tasks it should fulfil. Indeed, I would like to confirm that a global cleaning bill is being prepared, but because of all the resorts being reported various kinds of comments, certain life issues have arisen. The budget was created, because the energy department already operates, where money was spent on the operation of matters related to the performance of the duties of the Minister of Energy, e.g. on various types of financial resources. This applies e.g. Companies for the restructuring of mines, water draining, decommissioning of old sulphur mines still in progress, etc. That money has to be paid out first in February, early February. The competences are with the Minister of Economy, while the money with the Minister of Energy and now from a formal point of view is a problem. That is why I actually asked Members to help me solve this problem, and there was this bill that I had already... What Mr Gosievski has noted is that the change in how many laws of the Minister of Economy to Minister of Energy or Minister of the Environment to Minister of Energy is a partial ordering of these things to somehow close it. As the committee meeting will be in the next session of the Sejm, I am open to such statements. Mr Suchoń pointed out here that if you notice as Members any errors in all this, in preparing this project, we have a chance at this moment to do so so that at least in the energy minister's department everything will be all right. We can take it easy... I'm very eager to have a full order at my place, and I'm waiting here for my conclusions. Besides, I've never avoided inter-club cooperation on such matters. Those things which Mr Grzegorz Matusiak also referred to, also at the beginning of Mr Gosiewski's cooperation with the Minister of the Environment, I think it would be worthwhile to add at this moment and these things, so that the two things that operate around the Minister of Energy, which are organized here, i.e. the affairs of the Ministry of Economy... Cooperation with the Minister of the Environment must also be fully organised. These things are already housed, in which new formula it will work. I would like to stress here that as for what is at the interface of the Minister of the Environment, we have agreed on such a formula that the search, the study, that is, the whole geology, the exploration of our land resources and the making sure that certain natural water lines or others are not affected, this is the sphere the activities of the Minister for the Environment. But if it is already established that a given fossil can be extracted and allocated a concession, it will be done in agreement with the Minister of Energy on the basis that it already has an element of economic policy. Similarly, with regard to the allocation of emissions, all issues relating to the fulfilment of the emissions directive, here too will be environmental protection, the fight for an appropriate allocation of free emissions for Poland - this is one. And the other is to whom to assign them. This is already part of economic policy. So we also agreed that this would be done in agreement, in cooperation with the Minister of Energy. So some things are tidy up here. As far as any matter of chaos is concerned, as regards Mrs Leszczyńska, who spoke on the subject, I think that we will work out solutions here without any conflict at the committee meeting if there is a need for other solutions. I assume we don't have any... The point is to make these things work well, and I also believe that it is the intention of Members who make a parliamentary request that it is about ordering and not creating some functional chaos. The decision to reject the project... I will no longer comment on this request from the Member here.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u389	But there's no such conclusion. [[There was no such thing.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: To the Administrative Commission.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u390	Oh, to the administration committee, because I realized the rejection of the project. I'm sorry, then.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u391	No, there's no such conclusion, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u392	Excuse me. Excuse me. Then I withdraw that remark. At some point, I misunderstood. This seems to me that I have fully commented on the comments made here. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u393	Thank you very much, Minister. Please, Mr Małecki, the applicant. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u394	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will start by answering Mr Marek Suski's question. Ladies and gentlemen! Blackout from last year, case without precedent in the last few decades, 20th power level. Not only do I hope that improving the management of energy matters in Poland will allow us to avoid such situations in the future. [[The water in the Vistula will arrive.]] Mr Andrzej Czerwinski... One of the reasons. On the other hand, I remember the meeting of the Treasury Commission of the last term, when we were just discussing the readiness of energy companies for crisis situations. I think we both remember that then the presidents of individual companies of the State Treasury related to energy one by one told us that they had no risks and even had more powers. The reality turned out to be completely different. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, I invite the Member who requested that the debate be moved to the meeting of the Administrative Committee, and I invite him to the meeting of the Committee on Energy and the Treasury. Here is a very good custom of such strong substantive cooperation. We may differ in certain matters, but let's switch to arguments without emotion. I think this is a well-started term in this committee, and that is why it is the best forum to work on this bill. There was also the voice of one of the Members who said that the Act was as if it had not been moving forward with the RES work. RES is a completely different bill. We are talking about departments today, while work is underway on the RES Act or on the law implementing the new Energy Efficiency Directive. And I ask once again, continuing with Minister Krzysztof Tchórzewski's statement, about the substantive remarks when we will work at second reading in committee, because we all want this bill to be prepared as well as to serve Poland and Poles as best as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u395	Thank you, sir. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that the Sejm refer to the Parliamentary draft law amending the Law on the departments of government administration and certain other laws, contained in print No 211, to the Committee on Energy and the Treasury for consideration. The discussion also requested that this draft law be submitted to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and to the Committee on Energy and the Treasury. We will proceed to this settlement in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy and the Treasury on the draft law amending the Law on the control of certain investments (prints 212 and 214). I ask Mr Kubov to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u396	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Energy and the Treasury a report on the draft parliamentary law amending the Law on the control of certain investments. The project, print number 212, entered the Sejm on 26 January. The project was then addressed on 28 January to work in the Committee on Energy and the Treasury. The purpose of the proposed amendments to the Law on the control of certain investments is to extend the catalogue of entities which may be considered protected. The extension concerns economic operators whose business is the production of rhenium or the extraction and processing of metal ores used in the manufacture of explosives, weapons and ammunition, and military and police-purpose products and technologies. The draft provides for the extension of the advisory powers of the consultative committee, the clarification of the procedure for issuing recommendations by the committee and the extension of its composition. The draft also modifies the mode of occurrence of the control authority to the notifying entity of its intention to acquire or acquire significant participation or acquisition of dominance over the protected entity. The Energy and Treasury Commission, after first reading and considering the project, recommends that the High House adopt this draft law amending the Law on the control of certain investments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u397	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Ewa Malik, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u398	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present an opinion on the parliamentary draft law amending the Law on the control of certain investments, called the Law on Control. It aims primarily at extending the catalogue of entities which, by the control authority, the Council of Ministers, may be considered to be protected. This applies to certain entities that may be classified by the Council of Ministers as relevant for the security of the State as well as their potential investors who will be required to notify their intention to acquire or achieve significant participation or dominance in a protected entity. The essence of the amendment to the bill on control is to update it in view of the need to supplement the list of protected entities recognised by the Council of Ministers as strategic from the point of view of State security. It goes on, among other things. for certain companies engaged in the supply of raw materials essential for the manufacture and manufacture of explosives, weapons and ammunition, and military or police-purpose products and technologies or unique on a global scale elements such as rhenium. The Audit Act also sets out too narrow the powers of the Consultative Committee, which relate only to the issue of recommendations on the appropriateness of the statement of objections by the Audit Authority. It is also necessary for this law to correct the tasks of the consultative board. The amended provisions contain important changes to the possibility of obtaining advice and to the security of your opinion throughout the scope covered by the Act. The proposed regulation also provides for the composition of the consultative committee to be adapted to the recent law on government departments and certain other laws adopted by the Sejm. The membership of the consultative committee was supplemented by new departments, i.e. on the Minister for Energy, the Minister for Maritime Affairs and the Minister for the Economic Affairs of the Kosalin deposits. The proposed law is not contrary to European Union law, nor does it completely affect the public finance sector. Although the Audit Act entered into force in October 2015, it did not actually function, there was no control mechanism provided for in it due to the lack of an appropriate regulation, not issued by the Council of Ministers, the previous government. So this situation needs to be corrected. In summary, the amendments to the draft Print Act 212 are as deliberate as possible and are conducive to safeguarding the interests of the Polish State by strengthening control over strategic entities as well as investments covered by the state control presented in this form. The Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the provisions of the revised Print Act 212 and recommends its adoption by the High Sejm. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u399	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Zdzisław Gawlik, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u400	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present comments on the Act on the control of certain investments. I am quite in trouble because I tend to read acts that are being processed in this House. I have two legal acts ahead of me - prints 211 and 212 - and I would like to refer to both, because the issue we are talking about here is addressed in both legal acts. I checked the list of draft Members who signed under both laws, and I think it would be good for someone who signs a specific bill, sometimes review the content, read the content of one and the other act. I think the problem would be less. The Investment Control Act is dated July 2015. As Mrs Malik noted, it entered in October. Of course, it is an intentional law which gives the government the opportunity to take a decision on a regulation in which it will indicate a list of the entities for which the control authority will be competent to decide whether a regulation may take place. So the drop on the predecessors who did not prepare this regulation in October, Madame, is -to put it mildly - as if I didn't know if it was on the spot. You should have a bit more of a grudge against the current government, which, as far as I know, has not yet prepared such a regulation. But I think it's gonna happen so the bill can pursue these goals. She is needed - because I remember the previous term and speeches, opinions - necessary, and this regulation is necessary. But here we are dealing with a particular situation, that there are two legal acts, of course created... Colleagues, my previous speakers, talking about the so-called. the departmental law, they made comments about the pace, which sometimes causes different situations to occur that should not be the case. One at a time. The proposed law extends the scope of the subject matter, and it is possible to achieve the objectives referred to in the novel, without the need to extend the scope of the subject matter. Secondly, please note that the Control Act and the Divisional Act deal with the control of certain investments, in such a way that the solutions proposed in both laws are not identical, are divergent. So we're putting things upside down. Why? One at a time. If you look at the Law on the Control of Certain Investments and the Divisional Act, one and the other amends the article. 13 Investment Control Act. This law, this article. 13 is amended in different ways in the Investment Control and Division Act. I don't know if that was the intention or not. Secondly, the departmental law introduces a second control body, which is a breach of a rule that one body in the State was a control body. We create an inspection body by way of an exception in the form of the Minister of Energy. At the same time, we share the property between the Minister of Energy and the Minister of the Treasury, which was in the previous legal act. We don't do the rest. So there is the impression that we are creating a legal act, and as a result of this legal act, there will be a situation that the amendment, which is introduced by the law I am talking about in print 212, will be outside any control. So it's an empty recipe. It is not known why someone would propose such a provision, such a novelty, when there are no implementing rules and the objectives underlying this law are ignored. At the same time, please note that the intention of the legislator in the Audit Act was to set up an Advisory Committee. We're talking about one committee here. You don't know who's calling him to the end, you don't know who's funding him. Because this bill makes there's no transparency and no clarity. This causes another problem when it comes to resolving these doubts against the application of this law. So, ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of the bill we are talking about, the novelty of the Investment Control Act, can only be fulfilled if the relevant regulation is implemented. And the control of all entities, even those you speak of in the amended law, is assured. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There's no risk. Of course, it is a very delicate act. I don't refer to the need... We drew attention to this in the committee, but as if the appeal for the Foreign Minister to lean over this bill was not appreciated. The opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office was considered sufficient. In conclusion, it is as it is, but in content, if we look closely, the Sejm Analysis Office clearly states that due to the urgency of the opinion it is not possible to fully analyse the project presented. It's not that clear. Please note that...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u401	To conclude, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u402	Now. ...the question concerning the substance of this investment, the control of this investment is contained in Article. 2. Because we break the rules about which, among other things, we break the rules. Today you said Minister Waszczykowski, some principles of the European Union. This bill is a very delicate act. In order for it to function and to achieve its effects, it must be built in such a way that no one accuses it of non-compliance with EU law. It's not an ax-written bill, it can't be done, because it's just so delicate matter being moved. Hence, on behalf of the civil club, since the objective can be achieved without this law, if no amendment to the law is made, we are against the adoption of a law in this version. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u403	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Krzysztof Sitarski, club Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u404	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present today the position of the Kukiz Poselski Club15 regarding the Law on the Control of Certain Investments. The purpose of this law is to protect strategic Polish companies from hostile takeover. The aim of the Act is to reduce the risk of losing control of companies necessary to ensure the safety of Poland. This law concerns the most important companies in the gas, electricity, chemical, petrochemical and armament sectors. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 4 The Act proposes to extend the list of entities that may be protected. The Kukiz Members' Club15 asks for a vote in favour of the amendment, but not without comments. First of all, please inform whether and when the Council of Ministers will finally publish a regulation to the Act on the control of certain investments. This regulation is not in place at the moment. This is a burning matter. Without specifying the list of entities to be protected and controlled, the law shall not apply. In order to sum up, I would like to quote the 2015 Supreme Audit Chamber report on the privatisation of selected companies of the Treasury, an assessment of the economy and reliability of privatisations carried out in Poland in 2012 and 2014, carried out by the then Ministry of Treasury. The Supreme Audit Chamber requests correct verification of the value of privatised companies contracted and received. I will give only three examples: the sale of Ciech's shares below the market value, with an unreliable analysis of the call for sale, unnecessary expenditure on advisors in the privatisation of PHN, sale at an underpriced price of the shares of Zakład Górniczo-Hutnicze The law itself without a regulation will be an empty legal act. At the moment, this is another subject which, once this law has been passed, must be implemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u405	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u406	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I am pleased to present the position of the Modern for the Act on the Control of Certain Investments, the amendment of this Act. The recent law itself introduced a mechanism to control investments in certain sectors of the economy. I would remind you that this concerned the production and distribution of electricity, the production, transport and storage of fuels, the production of chemicals, telecommunications activities, the production and marketing of ammunition or the technology of military use. The novel proposes to extend this scope to the production of rhenium, mining and processing of metals used in the manufacture of explosives, weapons and ammunition, and military or police-purpose products and technologies. How is this bill supposed to work in the legislator's mind? According to that provision, the control authority, which is the Minister of the Treasury, will be able to object to the acquisition of shares, shares or an undertaking or an organised part of the company. At this moment, as the previous speakers pointed out, because no implementing regulation has been issued, we do not know exactly what companies this law will concern. The proposed amendment also proposes a change in the competence of the consultative committee, i.e. such an advisory body, which will be created from the heads of economic departments, the Minister of Defence, the Head of the Intelligence Agency, the Director of the Government Security Centre, the Head of the Military Counterintelligence Service, the Head of the Intelligence Service and finally the President of the Energy Regulatory Office. The Act also introduces amendments made to the Law on Departments and therefore takes into account in particular the creation of a new Ministry of Energy. In principle, we have no comments on this amendment and on the whole law. The only critical element that my previous speakers have pointed out is the compatibility of these regulations with EU law, because it is indeed very sensitive matter. On this point, we would recommend far-reaching consultations or even prior consultations, in particular before drawing up a list of the entities to be included in the regulation, because infringement of EU rules here could result in the lack of effectiveness of this solution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u407	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, PSL Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u408	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Polish People's Party cannot agree with this method of proceding. We don't mind the need for proceding, but we have entered some strange competition arrangement: who more projects will report which club will report more projects, later publications, accounting, etc. We're still dealing with the clubhouses, we're dealing with parliamentary projects, so you'll be able to boast that the club has reported so many projects. That's what I said at the last bill. If it were a government project, it is a greater guarantee that there is the consistency of this law. Here in a free lecture Professor Gawlik gave us an example and showed us exactly as an expert on the law how to do it. We should simplify the law here, not complicate it. Later we also go to the media and talk about how complicated the law is in Poland. Employers write to us and show us these mistakes. We are wondering how to simplify the law and on the other hand We're ruining this law. If something can be simplified, and here, for example, what Mr Gawlik said: include in the regulation. If we turn out to have missed someone in a week, will we be simplifying this? On the other hand, such a pace of work, what is extraordinary at the moment that we have to proceed from hour to hour with laws? On Wednesday, printing appears, on Thursday we process, on Friday we adopt a law already at second reading, when the law does not yet have a regulation and does not actually function. We should not support such solutions because it is not necessary for anything. It spoils the law, it spoils the transparency of this law. Therefore, the Polish People's Party will not support such solutions, your marshal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u409	Thank you very much, sir. We have one envoy to question. Would any of you like to join the questions? If not, I'm closing the list. The question is asked by Jerzy Gosiewiski, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome, sir, two minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u410	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the Minister! This draft law on amending the Law on the control of certain investments strengthens the protection of public security and public order in Poland. The proposed amendments will allow for inclusion in the list of companies subject to protection, for example those active in the supply of essential raw materials for the production of explosives, weapons and ammunition. The provision authorising the issue of a regulation determining the list of protected entities is optional. The proposed law creates the right to include a new group of entities in the protection provided for therein. I wanted to ask a question addressed to the government: Did the government at this moment, at this stage, prepare and define, at least initially, a list of those entities that will be included on the list? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u411	Thank you very much, sir. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Treasury Mr Filip Grzegorczyk will speak on behalf of the government. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u412	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In answer to the Member's question, yes, I confirm that there is work on such a list of entities in the Ministry of the Treasury. These are, of course, work carried out in consultation with other resorts. As you know, the scope of the law is wider than the scope of our supervised entities. It is true that the law is fragile, and it is true that the various entities notified to be covered by the Regulation require such robust verification that they fulfil the statutory conditions. I assure you, on the other hand, that this work is ongoing and essentially close to completion. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u413	Thank you very much, Minister. The applicant's representative, Mr Marek Suski, asked for the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u414	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to say a few words about the progress of the work and what was going on is Mr Gawlik, because, among other things, I wanted to thank Mr Gawlik for his work in committee, because we actually worked, although quickly, but according to the opposition Members supported this proposal, it seems that only one vote was holding back, so that understanding the need to protect our investments is. This project is basically an extension of the project of the predecessors, i.e. in the time of the Minister, although the Minister claims that it is inefficiently written, with an axe, but I assure the Minister that it was written on a computer using a keyboard, not an axe, so I think it is a bit overly critical to evaluate this project, all the more so because, as I say, we worked on the committee in agreement. The difference in the record between the two prints submitted is valuable. I think we're gonna be working on a change to the guns bill, and we're gonna make amendments there that will make no discrepancies. So thank you for your attention. We didn't catch that either. As you can see, the role of the opposition is invaluable, Minister, so to speak. As far as the regulation is concerned, this was already mentioned at the committee meeting, so I will once again quote what the Minister said that the list of actors is being prepared and the regulation, as the Minister said, is ready. This was prepared during the period from the adoption of the law to today. So that this amendment is needed so that this regulation can be combined... Although knowing the way of legislation and requirements, at least when government projects are adopted when the law is adopted, the regulation should be an integral part of the law. So if you're criticizing the Minister that there's no such regulation, then that's it. a little self-criticism, because in the previous term you had to give a bill along with a regulation. Now this case has been fixed, now, ladies and gentlemen. There was also talk of representatives on the committee, who will finance it, how it will work. It is clear from the Act that representatives of various ministries, as well as agencies, are posted to the Committee, which oversee the activities of, for example, services that will protect as far as security, counter-intelligence or intelligence is concerned. After all, these people will not be posted, without employment. Therefore, funding will be on the part of those institutions from which they will be delegated. Therefore, this law will not generate additional funding. Perhaps the Minister doesn't think so. If there is anything in this bill, we will also be happy to hear what the Minister will have to say. But I assure you, Minister, there is no special threat here. Again, thank you very much and nevertheless, despite some minor comments to support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u415	Thank you very much. In the correction procedure, Mr Zdzisław Gawlik, Civic Platform. [[But he wasn't mentioned by name, so he shouldn't straighten it out.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u416	Thank you, Marshal. No, sir. You've replaced me several times. Thank you for that, because even in a good light. So that you know, Mr President, using an axe, I have used the axe for these amendments that are, because I believe that someone who signs should take and read both, because if no one had read and done so - I will not mention the list of Members who signed under one printing - we could be at risk of being ridiculous in a moment. In fact, these changes lead to the fact that they do not have any legal effect, and as a result I am afraid - I do not know whether it is or not. We are overturning the whole idea that lies at the root of this law, in the absence of a position at least by the Foreign Minister. I know this bill wasn't born in one day or two. We have worked on this law for a long, long time, consulting it with various services, comparing these solutions with Austrian, German solutions. You know, they had it two years ago. We're late. [[Too long.]] OK, maybe too long. And there's another question. It's not as simple as you say, setting up a second control body, you know, because art. 14 notes that this is covered by the authorising officer from the part of the State budget to which the control authority is the authorising officer. Which one? We've got a lot of them. We have one consultative committee. You create something that really makes this bill an empty bill. I don't think that's the point. Unless, sir, that's the point. It's not enough that there's no regulation... The regulation was annexed to the proposed law. They just had to be filled in, put in a few names. It's not a difficult problem to do that. It was, check out those prints there, too. We honestly prepared the proposed legislation and it was 100%. Check it out. You should have filled it out. It could have been done. And today, if we're introducing some solutions for the consultative committee, I don't want to repeat what I said in the energy and treasure committee yesterday, because I'm maintaining these sentences, it's all so powerful, [[♪ The bell ♪]] That the designer really doesn't know what his intentions are. Really. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u417	Thank you very much. The rapporteur of the committee will take the floor. You're welcome, sir. Mr Filip Grzegorczyk. Excuse me, committee rapporteur Mr. Krzysztof Kubów. I'm so sorry, Minister, I'm lost in all this.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u418	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The intentions of this draft law, the amendment of the law, are as positive as possible, sir. This is an extension of the protection of the most important institutions or companies in our country. That's the truth. On the other hand, with regard to the comments on costs, for example the services of the consultative committee, I will say that the audit authority is one. The control authority is the Minister of the Treasury. [[No.]] Yeah, that's part of the bill. [[It's from this bill...]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u419	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. I'm declaring a time-out. 21. Then the vote will begin. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 19 min. 29 hours 21 min 02]] I'm reopening the session. I ask Members to take their seats. [[Game in the O.R.]] We are returning to the review of item 14 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy and the Treasury on the draft law amending the Law on the control of certain investments. Formal proposals have been made by the Members. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The High Sejm, with a formal request, was submitted by Mr Jakub Kulesza, a Kukiz club15. Please, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u420	Thank you, I've been waiting for a moment of peace. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] I would like to make a formal request for a break and a call for the Seniors' Convention to clarify the delay of the debate and discussion on the most important law in the year - the Budget Act. I'm guessing, like most of the people sitting here, what's the real reason for this shift and the re-votes of the night. By the way, Mr. President, I would like to congratulate you very much, I think this is a well-deserved reward. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u421	Mr President, this is not a formal proposal, so please formulate your statement as a formal proposal. At the moment, you are not in the area of the formal proposal to say that.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u422	Formal request for a break and clarification of the reason for the extension of breaks and debates on the Budget Law.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u423	Thank you, sir, but...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u424	I just want to say one sentence, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u425	Thank you very much, sir. I cannot accept this formal proposal as a formal proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u426	I'd like to say it's not just a matter of our time...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u427	Thank you very much, sir. I can't treat this proposal as a formal application.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u428	...but respect for the citizens... [[Don't prolong it.]] ...who are waiting for the most important bill to be passed in a year that is more important than any...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u429	Mr President, you are beginning to make it more difficult...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u430	...laws in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u431	You're making it difficult for me to hold a meeting. The formal application was submitted by Monika Wielichowska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u432	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! I would like to make a formal request for a break and a convent of the Seniors' Convention to explain to the High Sejm whether this is an important reason for interrupting the proceedings of the High House while the President of Kaczynski receives the Human Award of the Year from the Polish Gazeta. Mr Kaczyński has rested.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u433	This is not a formal proposal either, Commissioner.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u434	During the debate on the foreign policy of the President, there was no...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u435	Thank you very much, Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u436	...and we've been working.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u437	...but this is not a formal conclusion. [[Voice from the room: What do you mean no?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u438	This is, Mr. Marshal, a formal conclusion.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u439	Member, please leave the speaker, because this is not a formal proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u440	Are we in subjection to only one Member's calendar? We have the same parliamentary mandate as the President. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Don't yell!]] It's the same.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u441	Madame, this is not a formal proposal, please leave the platform. Ladies and gentlemen, please do not abuse formal requests, because this will end with a proposal which, in the previous term of office, submitted to the Civic Platform Club, so that the formal proposals can only be submitted by the club presidents... [[Applause]] [[I don't remember that conclusion.]] ...and I do not know if this is what you want. We're back to point 14. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 214. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Question.]] Excuse me, there's a question to be asked. Mr Zdzisław Gawlik from the Civic Platform Club. [[Here we go.]] One minute will do. [[Half a minute.]] [[A quarter, even.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u442	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I would like to ask you to postpone voting on this draft law on the control of certain investments because this law is important for compliance with EU law, and therefore the draft should be assessed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. At the same time, this draft law introduces certain amendments, which at the same time introduce a departmental law. Therefore, I believe that these draft laws should be dealt with together so that the effect of the Investment Control Act can be achieved. In addition, it must be borne in mind that those objectives, which are laid down in the Investment Control Act in the current version, can be achieved without the need to revise the Act. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u443	Thank you, sir. However, that was not a question, sir, first of all, and second of all, you spoke on your behalf, and that is the authority of the committee. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] The committee's power of attorney. [[But, Marshal...]] This is the authority of a committee that can expect or demand from a minister. [[He spoke on behalf of the club.]] No, it's a privilege. It's not a club, it's a committee. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 214, will want to raise your hand and press the button. [[It's not working.]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 288 voted against - 150, 2 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Act on the control of certain investments. We return to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on amending the law on government departments and some other laws. Two proposals were tabled to refer this draft law: firstly, only to the Commission for Energy and the Treasury, secondly, in addition to the Commission for Administration and Home Affairs. If I do not hear any objection, I will believe that the Sejm has sent this draft law to the Committee on Energy and the Treasury, and I will put the proposal to the vote. I can't hear you objecting. We are voting on the proposal for an additional referral of the bill to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of sending the draft law in print No 211 in addition to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. There were 198 votes against - 245, two Members abstained. I find that the Sejm has rejected the proposal. We return to the consideration of item 4 of the agenda: Information of the Foreign Minister on the tasks of Polish foreign policy in 2016. In the discussion, a request was made to reject the information submitted, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm has accepted the information. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the request to reject the foreign minister's information about the tasks of Polish foreign policy in 2016, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 186 Members voted against - 243, 18 Members abstained. I conclude that the Sejm rejected the application and therefore accepted the information of course. [[Applause]] We are returning to the examination of item 1 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the Government Draft Budget Act for 2016 - third reading. Let's move on to 69. a minority proposal. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of 69. a minority request, he'll want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. In favour of 183 Members, against - 220 Members, 42 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. Let's move on to the 26th amendment. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 26 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 156 votes against - 284 abstentions have been tabled by 9 Members. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. We're moving on to the 70th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 70th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. There were 183 votes against, 236 abstentions. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. [[Mr. Marshal, I have a formal motion.]] Mr Sanocki with a formal proposal. I'm listening. [[Voice from the hall: Friday...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u444	Mr. Marshal, yes, the Sabbath begins, and we are still sitting here. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a formal motion to vote as far as the entire en block budget goes: who's behind the budget. [[Voice from the room: No.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this may look ridiculous, but I don't know if you have any sense that we're participating in a slightly ridiculous undertaking. No government would allow itself to be involved in the budget of the amendments. [[Applause]] Therefore, it is obvious that I have a formal proposal as far as possible to put the entire en block budget to the vote. If it does not pass, all of you who have amendments will vote on the amendments. I think that's a logical solution. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Yes, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u445	On the surface, sir, this seems to be a correct conclusion, [[Joy in the Chamber]] But apparently, it's just that. I kindly inform you that, in this particular case, it is about the order of voting, we do not work on the basis of an article. 184, which is characterised by what are formal proposals. The order of voting is stated in the article. 50, which actually does not allow us to accept the Member's proposal. So that I am very sorry, I cannot accept this as a formal proposal. We're moving on to the 71st minority request. The question was asked by Elizabeth Stępień, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u446	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I ask such a kind request to all bikers, cyclists. Namely the Kunice - Legnica route is a very besieged route by cyclists. For safety reasons, I would like all those who like cyclists to support this proposal. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u447	Please. In fact, it wasn't a question. [[Joy in the Chamber]] But I thank you for this voice in the discussion, actually in the form of a question, let's say. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the 71st minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 211 Members voted against - 233. I state that the Sejm has rejected the minority's motion. [[A lot of those cyclists.]] We move on to the 72nd minority request. Here is another question, Mr Andrzej Maciejowski, Kukiz club15. Please. [[Maciejewski.]] Maciejewski, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u448	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have a request for you from Law and Justice. I understand that the injury account between you and your colleagues in the Civic Platform is very large. You can vote like this and always vote out, but I have a hot request on behalf of the east wall, Warmia and Mazury. So far, six amendments have been voted out in favour of specific investments in Warmia and Mazury. There will still be about six amendments before us, which are asking for concrete investments in an area that really requires investment. Ladies and gentlemen, without your vote the port of Elbląg, the reconstruction of the church in Braniewo, the sixteenth and many other investments will have no money. I'm asking for your support. Mr. President, I ask you to keep your word from the election campaign. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u449	Thank you for this appeal, although that should be a question. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 72nd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 202 Members voted against - 236, 12 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. Let's move on to the 27th amendment. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 27 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. The vote was 189, against 238, and 21 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 28th amendment. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 28 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 184 Members voted against - 254, 7 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. We're moving on to the 73rd minority request. The question was asked by Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u450	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The point of this amendment is to spend a little more money on the work budget and the activities of visual artists. It is one of the artistic groups which is completely outlawed in Poland. There is no insurance, no health insurance, no social insurance, and therefore it is very important that artists, painters, sculptors, art-video artists have some financial equipment. I ask you to support this amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u451	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House... 'Cause no one wants to answer to the Member? Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 73rd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 181 Members voted against - 262, six Members abstained. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. We're moving on to the 74th minority request. The question was asked by Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u452	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! No one has ever tabled an amendment with such a small financial dimension. It's only about PLN 2 million. At the same time, no one has made such a major amendment, because it is about covering the cost of medical treatment and buying medicines for our fellow countrymen from the East. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know if you are aware of how low the pension is in Ukraine. The lowest pension, and most of it is paid by our fellow countrymen from the East, is only 160 zlotys. It's only 160 zlotys. Ladies and gentlemen, I have repeatedly declared, also from this speaker, that I will support good changes. A few days earlier, I supported the draft of the Polish Charter Act. [[♪ The bell ♪]] prepared by Law and Justice, because it's a good bill. This law will not be able to benefit from the obvious reasons for older people, but only young and middle-aged people. I ask you today to support the good amendment, because it is a good change. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u453	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 74th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 215 Members voted against - 230 and 1 Member abstained. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. We move on to the 75th minority request. The question is asked by Mrs Lydia Gądek, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u454	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I have this question, but at the beginning maybe a quote: Olkusz is particularly close to my heart, and therefore the national road will be a priority for renovation. We heard such words about 4 months ago at the pre-election meeting of Law and Justice activists, and said them, otherwise, my favourite minister in the current government, Mr Adamczyk. Will this small amount of PLN 2 million, which we tabled in the amendment to start a renovation priority, be supported by the countries of the PiS club? I think it is obvious that all Members of the Olkuska land, but also the entire Małopolska and Silesia, will support this very good change. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u455	There you go. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 75th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 193 Members voted against - 235 Members, with 17. I state that the Sejm has rejected the minority's motion. We're moving on to the 76th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 76th minority request will raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 188 Members voted against - 236 Members, 23 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the minority's motion. We're moving on to the 77th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 77th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 194 Members voted against - 236, 20 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the minority's motion. Let's move on to the 29th amendment. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 29 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 159 Members voted against - 276, 15 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. We're moving on to the 78th minority request. Mr Radosław Lubczyk, the Modern Club, asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u456	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to ask you a question like that. Are you able to support an amendment that costs 800,000. zł, and this is an amendment that will cause that... I'm from the Szczecin district. There are only three ambulances, and the county is very large. After the last situation that happened, a young man died, just because an ambulance had to get from a remote village, because three ambulances were busy at that time because they ran around the county, I'm asking you to support this amendment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u457	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 78th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. Two hundred Members voted against - 244, four Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the minority's motion. Let's move on to the 30th amendment. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question was raised by Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u458	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! I have a first request to your marshal that your marshal cause your questions to be answered. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: No.]] It's a rule-of-law duty. And there is a appointed member of the government to respond. [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice chant: 8 years! Eight years!]] [[Who's asking?]] In 2005... There you go, I'm gonna talk about those eight years with every amendment. In 2005, the nutrition programme was launched and the funding for the programme was gradually increased. Last year the amount of PLN 550 million was allocated to this programme. This year, i.e. for 2016, this is also the amount of PLN 500 million. By serving the Prime Minister, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr Duda, who always talks about the fact that children have no meals, we have tabled this amendment. We would like to offer you the opportunity to finally give your children, like Minister Rafalska, if necessary. This has never been the case, and today, the state...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u459	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u460	...you say they're hungry children. We're giving you a chance to have the money for this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u461	Thank you, Member. I accept the call from the Member, everyone has heard it, only I would like to ask questions in substance at these moments, not to make appeals. [[Applause]] [[It's factual.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 30 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 186 Members voted against - 254, 10 Members abstained. [[Disgraceful!]] [[You don't give starving kids?]] I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 31st amendment. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is raised by Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u462	Dear Marshal, I, as part of my previous question, asked the Prime Minister a question. Will the Prime Minister answer that question? I would like Mrs Pavłowicz not to disturb me. [[I haven't heard from you.]] I would ask that Mrs Pavłowicz be silenced. [[I haven't heard from you.]] [[♪ The bell ♪]] Since 2007, the then Minister of Health, Ewa Kopacz, has increased the funds for medical rescue - a sum of PLN 1200 million by 2015. [[Applause]] The following situation appears. The previous government gave the nurses four times 400... [[And he didn't secure the resources.]] ...and gave the reserve. In this case, we are making another request and we want to ask the government whether it supports this amendment and whether medical rescue workers deserve a raise, because in the budget [[♪ The bell ♪]] is saved the amount of PLN 1870 million... [[Voice from the room: 8 years.]] [[Voice from the room: Time.]] ...but these are the same money they received in 2015. The government had a chance to show that it was giving rise. We've been raising for eight years... [[Voice from the room: Time.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u463	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u464	...four times the means. So are you going to give a raise to paramedics? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u465	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 31 would like to raise your hand and press the button. [[Answer.]] [[Voice from the room: Tomorrow.]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice in the O.R.: In writing.]] [[Eight years.]] [[Madame, it is a pity that you are here.]] 449 Members voted. 188 Members voted against - 255, six Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. But I would ask your fellow Members not to shout. [[Voice from the room: Full culture.]] We move on to the examination of Amendment 32. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. [[Say it, Mrs. Pavlowicz.]] The question has been asked by Members. Mr Bartosz Arłukowicz, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u466	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! For a few days now, you have been having a dispute, a discrediting argument, to whom to take 20 million PLN to give it to Tadeusz Rydzyk. [[Look who's talking.]] Whether to take the theatres or the universities. I don't know why you want to give Rydzyk that 20 million, because the answer would probably compromise the Sejm. I'll leave it on the side. Prime Minister, I have a question for the Prime Minister. You want to give 20 million to Rydzyk, while you took all the money away from people who need it in vitro. [[Applause]] And here I wanted to ask the Prime Minister: does the Prime Minister know that if the 20 million you want to hand over to Rydzyk... [[Voice from the room: Father.]] ...for in vitro use, 400 children would be born in Poland... [[How many dead?]] ...would there be 400 happy families for exactly that money? [[Applause]] Do you know that? Prime Minister, could you be a mother? [[♪ The bell ♪]] The godmother of 400 born children. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] Rydzyk's favorite... [[Voice from the room: Father Rydzyk.]] ...you'll never stay. You know...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u467	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u468	...how he treats women. [[Voice from the room: Time.]] He showed it. Prime Minister, 400 children born. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u469	Thank you very much, sir, and I would like to ask you, however, to respect other people because you are speaking in the High House. [[Joy in the Chamber]] That's one thing. Secondly, the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Andrzej Jaworski, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u470	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I am pleased, Mr Marshal, that you have drawn attention and brought your Member to order when it comes to addressing people with respect. [[But to the point.]] I always respect the opposition, too. [[Voice from the room: What's the comment?]] [[Voice from the room: Quiet!]] [[♪ The bell ♪]] On the other hand, in response to your speech, I would like to remind you that if you had not wasted money in previous years, this budget would also have greater opportunities in terms of the allocation of the resources you are talking about. [[Applause]] [[You wouldn't have to raise the deficit.]] Who spent PLN 100 million on unnecessary referendums? For this PLN 100 million, a whole mass of investments could be realised. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir!]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Who spent PLN 10 million on a program promoting mathematics on private television when it could be done on public television? [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir!]] Who spent 5 million PLN from the sports budget for a concert that aroused great controversy? [[Applause]] Who spent PLN 35 million on Cam Media when ministerial officials could do this promotion without any problem? [[Applause]] [[300 million!]] And if you have such doubts that private investment is being co-financed... [[What does this have to do with family drama?]] ...maybe you should ask yourself why 465 million went out of public money for a private investment in Warsaw. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u471	Mr Adam Szłapka, the Modern Club, also asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u472	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You talk so much about supporting families in Poland, so much about reversing bad demographic trends, and you want to deprive 38 thousand in this budget. couples' right to have children. Is there any medical reason you want to take the money? [[There it is, there it is.]] Do you really feel sorry for the resources? And do you really want to deprive people of their right to happiness, their right to have children? [[Applause]] [[They do, they do.]] [[We want...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u473	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 32 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 178 Members voted against - 263, six Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 33rd amendment. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is that for me? [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] I'm sorry, it's... We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 33 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. There were 190 Members voted against - 234, 21 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 34th amendment. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 34 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 204 Members voted in favour, 235 voted against, 12 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. [[Formal conclusion...]] Mr Masłowski with a formal request.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u474	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, we've got 175 votes, about 200 more ahead. I'm so worried because I'm watching and I see that every time there are 234 votes on this board, 235, 236 votes, about... [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: This will be the case for four years, sir.]] [[Einstein.]] I'm just a little surprised that sometimes you can even vote against your region. I understand party discipline, but things like the ambulance or other things... It's hard for me to understand how you can answer to the voters later. It's a formal request for a break and a short refresher training on how to use this voting machine... [[Voice from the room: No...]] ...because you might have a problem with that. And besides...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u475	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u476	...watching recent events at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe... [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u477	Mr President, I would like to address Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u478	I'm almost done.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u479	Wait a minute. Listen to me. [[Voice from the room: There is no such conclusion.]] Art. 184, specifically paragraph 1. 3... [[Voice from the room: He doesn't understand.]] ...includes as many as 12 points - examples of formal applications. Tell me which point this is. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] in your case, about what you're saying. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] The adjournment, adjournment or closure of the sitting. Well, then, sir, the training of Members can be carried out and thank you very much for showing such concern... [[Voices from the room: Course! Training! Training!]] Ladies and gentlemen... ...but here we can possibly talk about a change in the way the vote is conducted. Mr President, I would ask you, however, to step out of the podium, and we will thank each other because this is not a formal proposal. [[Applause]] Minority requests 79 to 214 and amendments 36 to 86 were submitted to Annex 2 containing a plan for state budget expenditure in 2016. We're moving on to the 79th minority request. Mr Stanisław Żmijan, the Civic Platform Club, asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u480	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 79. The minority proposal proposes an increase in expenditure in the budget section 39: Transport, in chapter: Railway infrastructure, for the revitalization of railway line 72 in the section Zamość - Hrubieszów with the restoration of passenger transport. I am asking the High House to support this proposal and, in particular, to ask Members of the Lublin Land, because we have had good experience in the eight years you emphasise. In the past, we restored it in the first stage, after 12 years of shut-off, on the section Lublin - Lubartów, Lublin - Parczew. Of course we still have: Chelm - Italy and Zamość - Hrubieszów. That's why I'm asking for your support, because [[♪ The bell ♪]] I have no doubt - the change of national authority has not changed the needs or expectations of the Lublin society. Unless you don't think so. Is that so? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u481	Thank you, sir. I interpret your appeal as a veiled question to the government if he will change his mind and support this motion. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] But that doesn't sound like it, sir. [[Applause]] Let's move on to the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 79th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. There were 196 Members voted against - 234, 16 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. We're moving on to the 80th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 80th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[I've been notified, Mr. Marshal. I've been asked to ask a question.]] 443 Members voted. 192 Members voted against - 248 Members and 3 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the minority's motion. [[I volunteered yesterday.]] Excuse me, sir. We'll try to keep an eye on all the applicants. We move on to the 81st minority request. On this proposal, Mr Jaskóla, the Kukiz Club15, raises the question. [[Voices from the room: Hurry up!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u482	I'm so sorry. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Socialists believers and unbelievers, you spend money on the right and left. In the case of most amendments, I am voting against, but there is information here. I'll ask you a question in a minute. One institution, Mr applicant, must never touch and recite a penny, even though it cost 100 million PLN - the referendum institution. This society has a sacred right to a referendum. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] No matter who does this referendum. Never. [[Applause]] [[Mr Andrzej Jaworski enters the podium]] [[Voices from the hall: Ooh!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u483	No, no, no, no, no, no! [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please calm your emotions, [[Joy in the Chamber]] because the Member asked, returned... It wasn't a question, it was a question he addressed to the applicant. I would remind you that at this point, questions, not appeals, should be addressed to the rapporteur or to the government. There is no such institution as the applicant here. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 81st minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 180 Members voted against - 250, 18 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. We're moving on to the 82nd minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 82nd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 178 Members voted against - 250, 19 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the minority's motion. We're moving on to the 83rd minority request. The question was raised by Magdalena Kochan, the Civic Platform Club. [[The voice from the hall: Oh, Jesus, no!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u484	Thank you very much, Marshal. In 2010, in the midst of the global crisis and in really difficult years for the state budget, the government of Donald Tusk considered it right to establish the Academy of Arts in Szczecin. It's a unique university, the first art university in West Pomerania. [[Right.]] 5 million PLN, because this university was equipped by the local government and the local government of Szczecin - over 14 million PLN. Today is really one of the few chances of developing this academy, enabling it to work in better conditions. Prime Minister, today you have announced that the amendment withdrawn in the Sejm supplementing the money of one of the private universities will be re-examined in the Senate. [[It will be.]] You'll find money to make one venture, commercial in the end, because that's where students pay tuition, help, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Even though the law doesn't allow it. Why don't you want to support the development of the Academy of Art in Szczecin? [[Applause]] [[What else?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u485	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 83rd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 183 Members voted against - 244, 21 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. We're moving on to the 84th minority request. Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, the Kukiz Club15, asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u486	High Izbo! Mr. Marshal! The 80th motion is gone, but with regard to the minority's motion, 84th, let me ask you a question. It is about a lousy 5 million for sports organizations of the Kresów, former Kresów of the Republic. These sports organizations, these Poles need much more money than many of the ones we voted out here. Of course, the question is: Would there be 5 million for our compatriots who also want to cultivate Polishness? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u487	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 84th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 191 Members voted against - 249, 10 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. We're moving on to the 85th minority request. The questions have been raised by the Members. Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, Civic Platform Club. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u488	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are discussing millions, tens, hundreds of millions, ba, sometimes more than a billion, and my question is related to a minority proposal of a small value of 446 thousand. zł. It has been said here that nurses - that's the worst, you can say, an enlisted professional group in the public sphere - received increases. Not all of them. 68 nurses in the Silesian Voivodeship did not get these increases. Although they work in public health establishments and their colleagues in other branches, these increases have been received, they have not been received because under the law the same public hospital is a subcontractor [[♪ The bell ♪]] Voivodship emergency service. My question. If the Honourable Sejm cannot vote in favour of this minority request for certain reasons, I ask the Prime Minister whether, in the name of justice, equal treatment and solidarity... [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] ...in front of women will find these really small resources for those honest, decently working... [[Voice from the room: Time!]] ...with the great sacrifice of women to be treated equally, because as for the fact that this is the solution...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u489	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u490	...unfair and de facto unlawful, there is no doubt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u491	Thank you, Member. [[Eight years.]] Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, of course, questions... [[Voice from the room: No, no.]] ...doesn't ask. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 85th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 209 Members voted against - 235, five Members abstained. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. Let's move on to the 36th amendment. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 36, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 176 Members voted against - 258, 7 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 37th amendment. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 37 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 180 Members voted against - 258, 9 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. We move on to the examination of Amendment 38. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 38, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 157 Members voted against - 276, 14 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. We are moving to the examination of the 86th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 86th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 178 Members voted against - 243, 27 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We're moving on to the 87th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the 87th minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 66 voted against - 291, 91 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the minority's motion. Let's move on to the 39th amendment. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 39 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the room: Uh...]] [[We're in. What are you guys doing?]] 451 Members voted. There were 273 votes against and 175 abstentions. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. We're moving on to the 88th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 88th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 160 Members voted against - 278, 11 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. Let's move on to the 40th amendment. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The questions have been raised by the Members. Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Platform Club. [[There's no Honest.]] [[He's coming, he's coming.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u492	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! We move on to a very important group of amendments. Amendments 41 and 45 are amendments concerning the Ombudsman, the constitutional control body and the protection of the law. The President is probably unaware, and the Prime Minister, but you have not only reduced the Ombudsman's budget by one-quarter, but you have also reduced its budget by PLN 3.5 million compared to 2015. This limitation of financial independence, which will lead to violations of the international obligations of Poland and thus will violate the established international standards. These are very harmful amendments. All I ask is for you to vote on Amendment 42 differently than on the committee. He's about to meet, Prime Minister, with the Commissioner for Civil Rights of the Venice Commission. Is the first words to be said to the Venice Commission spokesperson, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will it be that you violated his financial independence by lowering his budget by 3.5 million? [[Applause]] [[Not enough!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u493	Thank you. We're at Amendment 40 right now. Please, Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u494	Dear Marshal and Prime Minister, High Izbo! Is it true that, in fact, the amendments that have been approved by the Committee on Public Finance and concerning the Ombudsman's Office are shifting the institution back to the 2011 budget? In fact, we perceive these amendments as not substantive amendments, but substantive amendments, because it is as if to go deeper into the history of the discussion on this budget, just the depth of these amendments. [[Political.]] Prime Minister, let us let this body work for our citizens, because this is the money that was about to be used to support our citizens, to erase bad judgments and others of this kind, to control the closed places in which our citizens are staying. Today these places are controlled once every 15 years, and according to international law they should be controlled once every five years. Please do not support any amendments that reduce the Ombudsman's budget. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u495	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 40 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 270 Members voted against - 172 and 6 Members abstained. [[Applause]] I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. We're moving on to the 89th minority request. The questions were raised by Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u496	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 89. The minority's proposal concerns an amendment which increases money for the Institute of National Remembrance, specifically the Committee on the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals. A total of 5 million... [[The voice from the hall: Oh, Jesus...]] ...is a symbolic sum, but symbolic is also who is to pay for it. The Ombudsman has to pay for this. We very much ask the Law and Justice to consider, especially since just now the 39th amendment we supported as a Kukiza club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u497	Thank you. The question is asked by Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u498	High Izbo the Sejm! The originally planned budget of the Ombudsman was PLN 40.5 million. It's still one of the smallest budgets among public institutions. [[Voice from the room: Don't cry.]] The IPN, to which the funds allocated for this amendment are to be sent, is to have the amount of PLN 270 million and has not even requested additional funds. I do not want to compare the roles of both institutions, because they are both important, but it is to the Ombudsman's Office that citizens report, who are in a dramatic situation and are being victimized by the state. How, then, can the desire to deepen the financial gap between the IPN and the Ombudsman's Office be explained, unlike the desire for political revenge? In any case, you have been very open about this, and you have clearly pointed out that the budget, the smaller budget, is a penalty for hiring a substitute for discrimination, because you are familiar with gender. So I would like to remind you that combating discrimination is one of the basic actions [[♪ The bell ♪]] ombudsman and a serious social problem. And the spokesperson should... [[Voice from the room: Time!]] ...help act and have the means to act in this matter. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u499	Thank you, Member. Mrs Lydia Gądek, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u500	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! The Ombudsman is a legal body. According to the wording of the article. 80 of the Constitution, every citizen shall have the right, on the terms set out in the Act, to ask the Ombudsman for assistance in defending his or her freedoms and rights set out in the Constitution and other provisions of law which are infringed by public authorities. Ladies and gentlemen, you are voting against improving the air in Krakow, against regional amendments. We are able to understand this, but whether you also want to limit civil rights, or maybe contrary to what you have said in the campaign, the rule of law in Poland and civil liberties are so good that you may have to eliminate the Ombudsman even if there is no means for this... [[Voice from the room: Yes!]] ...so he can function properly? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u501	Mr Szymon Szynkowski, a.k.a. Sąk, Law and Justice, is also asked to allow the question to be asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u502	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! I am surprised at this concern for the Ombudsman expressed by you at the moment. For nine years as a self-government officer from Poznań, I met with residents in dramatic situations many times. And these inhabitants, coming to the councillors, to the Members, very often in thick files with their affairs had letters, correspondence with the Ombudsman. And this correspondence has always shown that the Ombudsman failed to help them. Today, ladies and gentlemen... [[And that was another spokesperson?]] ...you're defending him. This institution is inefficient, it needs to be cut. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u503	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 89th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. The vote was 42, against - 401, and three Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the minority's motion. We're moving on to the 90th minority request. The questions have been raised by the Members. Mrs Barbara Chrobak, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u504	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Will the government include in the budget an increase in the remuneration of the prosecutor's staff? The Ombudsman, in order to receive an amount of 10 million, should first answer questions, in how many cases he joined a constitutional complaint or referred such a complaint, to how many proceedings he joined, whether the Ombudsman's Office had taken any legislative initiative in recent years. [[There's no spokesperson's initiative.]] Ladies and gentlemen! 70% employees of the prosecution receive a salary of less than 2 000. zł. Yes, you can hear me. Often they don't get enough from the first to the first. This independent Attorney General, whom we have talked so much about in recent days, has not cared for his employees, has been led on a string by the Minister of Finance. I ask: Where is this independence here? [[Applause]] I am pleased to assure Minister Ziobra that the workers [[♪ The bell ♪]] The courts will receive an increase because it is the same professional group. Minister, does this mean you'll remember the D.A.'s staff as well? Thank you. [[Voice from the room: No!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u505	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Adam Szłapka, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u506	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Your consistent fight against the institutions of the rule of law has also moved to the budget law. What is the justification for reducing the Ombudsman's budget? After all, on a budget scale it is a very small amount. Who's gonna lose on this? Citizens whose affairs are dealt with by the Ombudsman. There is no justification for this change, apart from threatening the Ombudsman with the finger: keep your head down, or we will do with you what we do with the Constitutional Tribunal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u507	However, I would ask your fellow Members to clarify the questions, because the questions, by the way... [[That was good.]] I'll remind you again. Explain the questions raised in the question whether the rapporteur or a representative of the government can answer the question. Mr Szczerba, the Civic Platform Club, has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u508	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! After your arrival from the European Parliament, you were declared Beata the Great. Today we can say... [[Voice from the room: Right.]] ... Beata Silent. [[Voice from the hall: Stop it, respect a little.]] But this is really serious. The issue of the Ombudsman's financial independence is an element of the documents... in the international documents recorded: the UN, the Council of Europe. I will only mention one thing that can be used against the government, against the parliamentary majority. The UN Human Rights Council in Resolution 27/18 of 2014 wrote: National human rights authorities must not be exposed in the context of any form of retaliation or intimidation, including political pressure, physical intimidation, or [[♪ The bell ♪]] and an unjustified reduction in the budget. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u509	Please, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u510	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Today, most of the day in this room we discussed Poland's position in Europe, Poland's position in the world. The Ombudsman - I think you are fully aware of this - is sanctity in democratic legal order. [[Joy in the Chamber]] And I wanted to... [[Wow, you hit it.]] ...to ask: Are you aware that you are opening another front for the fight against civilised Europe, with the European Union? Are you aware of the consequences of this fight you are taking with a democratic institution, which is very respected in the European Union? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u511	The committee rapporteur, Mr Andrzej Jaworski, asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u512	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I would just like to point out that both these speeches at this point and the previous ones, this is a discussion between the opposition, so please do not ask here the government, what it thinks about it, because these are the conclusions of the minorities that you have reported yourself. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u513	And there's an explanation. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 90th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 37 votes against - 407, two Members abstained. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. Let's move on to the 41st amendment. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The questions have been raised by the Members. Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u514	High Izbo! Mr. Marshal! It's not about restricting the independence of the Ombudsman, the secular sanctity you've announced just now, it's about motivating him to work more effectively. There is nothing better for the Polish state than a more efficient official, [[Applause]] And only financially can you motivate an official to do better work. So I don't think it's any restriction on the Ombudsman's independence, but it's about motivating him to work more effectively. Perhaps if he works more efficiently next year he will get more money. [[Applause]] [[What are you saying?]] [[It's called blackmail.]] On the other hand, there is nothing more important than the criminal prosecution committee against the Polish Nationals. This is a matter of reason, and there is no discussion here, which is more important. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u515	Please. Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u516	High Izbo! The money you collect from the Ombudsman was intended to be used, among others. for the renovation of the building at ul. Longer - Warsaw monument. I suggest we motivate this monument to refurbished itself. [[Did you work there?]] Indeed, the funds received were also intended to increase staff in the criminal law team, to which 2800 applications for cassation are now being submitted. These proposals are only dealt with by seven people at this point. Without additional posts, this office is unable to fulfil its obligations under both the Constitution and international agreements. The third element of the Ombudsman's budget is the increase for office staff. These salaries have not been raised in eight years and are really one of the lowest in the central administration. [[It's a platform.]] This results in a significant turnover of the staff of this office and a reduction in the quality of their work. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voice from the room: 8 years!]] Are you aware that this office is often the last resort for many Polish citizens? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u517	The rapporteur of the committee, Mr Andrzej Jaworski, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u518	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Exactly the same thing at this point. These are points, cases raised by the opposition, so please don't speak to the government or press charges against the Law and Justice in these matters. [[Who asked for your vote?]] [[Then throw them away.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u519	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 41 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 35 Members voted against - 407, 1 Member abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 42nd amendment. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The questions have been raised by the Members. Mr Michał Jaros, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u520	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! Hugo Chávez, the dictator of Venezuela, was famous for writing to him. Asking for 10 bags of cement, and he generously sent them these bags. Until 2 months ago Poland was a state of civil service rules and procedures. Today, thanks to the activities of the PiS, she's not like that anymore. Today it is a discretionary state, not to be confused with a religious one: depending on who writes the letter, depending on who gives the prize, depending on who invites to the radio - at their discretion. One day you take money from the Ombudsman's budget and the next day you give $20 million to Father Tadeusz Rydzyk's private university. [[Voice from the room: Don't get excited.]] My question is, what are you afraid of when you take money from the Ombudsman's budget? [[Quiet!]] And one more thing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Dear President, Mr Jarosław Kaczyński: don't be like Hugo Chávez. [[Applause]] [[Who are you?]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u521	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Sorry, we're not voting yet. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u522	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Maybe it's worth talking about what we're really talking about. Mr Law and Justice from Poznań said that the Ombudsman's Office is an ineffective office, does not help Poles. [[And unsuccessfully.]] Perhaps it is not surprising, if only in 2015 the team received 2842 new applications for the annulment of judgments and these applications - and there are also, of course, conclusions from earlier years - there are only seven lawyers working. In fact, the money you're taking today was supposed to go, among other things. to strengthen this team. As I understand it, you are not interested in it, you prefer to give it to other purposes, e.g. Rydzyk's father's school. Yesterday we heard that this amendment is withdrawn, and today the press reports that Mr President claims that this money will still be passed on to Father Rydzyk. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Very good.]] In this connection, we ask you to answer the question: What would you like to finance: the cancellations of our country's citizens or the school of Father Rydzyk? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[She's on the charge... amazing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u523	Thank you. Member Blazej Parda, Kukiz club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u524	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! I have a question for the Minister of Finance. Is it true that in 2013, the ombudsman's budget was 39 100,000, in 2014 - 39 100,000. and in 2015 - 38 600 thousand? Thus, from 2014 for 2015 it was reduced by half a million. Is it true that the Civic Platform has for the last four to five years not only maintained this level but actually reduced it in this plan? [[Yeah, it's the Platform's fault.]] There are great emotions here today. I'm just wondering... Because the ombudsman said 46 million, he said he needed that much. If he needed 100 million zlotys and then he was cut off 50 zlotys, you'd be yelling that he was taken away 50 zlotys and still have more than he has today. [[Now they're increasing the deficit.]] So, ladies and gentlemen, summing up all the amendments - the real Ombudsman will have 2 million fewer, [[♪ The bell ♪]] 5% Less than he had last year, so I don't think it's time to be foaming. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u525	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 42 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. Two Members abstained from voting 269 against - 177. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. Let's move on to the 43rd amendment. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The question has been asked by the Members. Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u526	High Izbo! All amendments, all minority proposals amounted to almost PLN 25 million, making half of the Ombudsman's budget (45 million). [[Applause]] And the State as a Kukiz group15 participated in the accumulation of all the amounts that were to be collected from the Ombudsman's budget. The Constitutional Tribunal was assaulted and the Ombudsman's Office wanted to starve. The tribunal has destabilized... [[Voice from the room: Way.]] ...on the basis of law, and the Ombudsman's Office wants you to overpower on financial grounds. You want to destroy... reduce the Ombudsman's budget so much that he can't carry out his constitutional duties that he can't carry out the obligations on him... [[But he's done it so far.]] ...pregnant, resulting from international agreements. And say it straight. This is hitting the Polish state right, re ridiculing Poland in the international arena. [[The voice from the hall: Oh, Jesus...]] Shame. Is that what you want? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u527	Mr Szczerba, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u528	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! At every international meeting, the Prime Minister and Foreign Minister will have diplomats written: the government of Beata Szydło reduced the funding of the Ombudsman, the Polish ombudsman. [[He starved.]] This is an international issue. You can still back off. There are three amendments you can give up. But let me be very honest: lowering the ombudsman's budget is hitting ordinary people, older people, poor people, people often lost. I don't know if the Prime Minister knows, but we ourselves have put a new task on the Ombudsman by ratifying the Convention on the Prohibition of Torture. He is to monitor, visit 1800 places of isolation in Poland. These aren't just prisons, psychiatric hospitals, they're social services houses, public and private, where the elderly are 24 hours a day, [[♪ The bell ♪]] chained to a bed. Very often, their rights are violated. There must be a spokesperson out there, and he won't be able to do it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u529	Thank you. I remind the House that in this case the Sejm makes a decision, not a government. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 43 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. There were 263 votes against, 185 votes against, 1 abstention. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. Let's move on to the 44th amendment. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. Tomasz Cimoszewicz, the Civic Platform Club, asked the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u530	Nice to meet you. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The human language doesn't get to you, [[Applause]] So there's gonna be prosthetics. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] I'll quote the great thinker of this House who used to say... [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal...]] ...I thought it was gonna be a set-up factory, and this barn is. [[And she was right.]] Yeah, it's a barn. You made a barn after October 25th. [[Mr. Marshal, get to the point...]] The level of evil and social injustice you are introducing will certainly not open the sky of the gates. In a minute, you'll take PLN 0.5 million from the ombudsman's budget, and all day you're arguing about how you're going to hand over 20 million to your friend, his Holiness Rydzyk. I said, what's this going to go for? For the new Maybach model? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Or maybe another hole in the ground? [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u531	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u532	Now you're giving money to the polling room... [[The Marshal shuts down Mr Tomasz Cimoszewicz's microphone]] [[He's not done yet.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u533	I remind you, High Sejm, that we are talking not about the barn, not about the sky, but about the Ombudsman. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the room: Ooh...!]] Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u534	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Let us really look at this: we are taking money from the Ombudsman, an institution that should really serve the citizens, and what are we spending it on? On the World Youth Day, whose budget is already, I think, sufficient, for a dental clinic, for the Centre for Social Opinion Research and for the construction of a roundabout. Ladies and gentlemen! Prime Minister! Are these things really more important than defending the citizens of our country? [[Yes.]] I don't think so. I have one more question. Amendments reducing the budget of the Ombudsman's Office have already been tabled during the first work of the committee. That's when they were withdrawn. Is it just because there was a debate in the European Parliament? If that's the case... [[There'll be another one.]] ...and now you're coming back with them, because then you didn't have the civil courage, so congratulations.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u535	Thank you. Member Paweł Lisiecki, Law and Justice has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u536	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I have a question. Because the opposition defends the ombudsman, the question is: Where was the ombudsman when the women were insulted in Kraków Przedmieście? [[Yes, sir.]] Where was he, why didn't he intervene then? [[Applause]] [[What's a city guard for?]] Why do you not intervene when children are taken away by the courts for poverty? Where's the ombudsman then? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: Lying!]] Ladies and gentlemen, the question is: Does this institution perform its duties? And that's the basic question. [[Voice from the room: I spokesperson for the rights of the child.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Civil Rights.]] [[Voice from the room: There is no shame. How's he gonna go to confession?]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u537	The rapporteur of the committee, Mr Andrzej Jaworski, asks for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u538	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I would just like to remind you that if we wanted to consummate all the opposition amendments on the change of the Ombudsman and his budget, this money would be taken on a much larger scale than it has been allocated at the moment. [[Grace, great grace.]] But if you do not know what happened to the money that could go to this institution, which you are defending so much, remember how 300 million PLN was spent without meaning on the Polish atom. Remember how PLN 125 million was spent on advertising by the government of Donald Tusk, half of which went to the Gazeta Wyborcza. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir!]] [[Voice from the room: Demagog.]] [[And how many of yours are coming?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u539	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. [[Mr Paulin Hennig-Kloska: corrected, Mr Marshal.]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 44, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. One Member abstained from voting 243 against - 205. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. Let's move on to the 45th amendment. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. Mr Szczerba, the Civic Platform, asked. And then the other Members.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u540	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! It's the night of shame. It's a night of shame, really. You take the money to operate, you paralyze the office of ombudsman. It's really embarrassing. I will remind you that the Ombudsman has constitutional responsibilities, has statutory responsibilities, but also has international responsibilities. It is an independent body monitoring the implementation of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. This is another international issue worth mentioning. These are also specific tasks imposed on the Ombudsman by the Law on the implementation of certain provisions of the European Union in the field of equal treatment. You're not paralyzing so much, which is really leading to the fact that a reduction in the budget for 2015 is firing people, it's firing professionals, it's firing the best human rights experts, [[♪ The bell ♪]] civil rights in this office. Shame. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u541	Mrs Joanna Schouring-Wielgus, Schering... [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Sorry, Scheuring-Wielgus, Modern Club. [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u542	Could you shut the room down, please?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u543	Ladies and gentlemen, please listen to the honourable Member. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u544	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am listening here to the views of Members of the Law and Justice with such a slight embarrassment. You Members have forgotten one important thing - we are not talking about your money, your finances. This is the money of all citizens, your constituents and our voters. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]] That's one thing. I understand, if it was a piss attorney, the money would go up, right? You don't like the fact that we have a completely new spokesperson, a spokesperson who has been reported by a coalition set of NGOs. This happened for the first time in the Republic of Poland. [[Voice from the room: Good set.]] Really, it's embarrassing that with such a... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voice from the room: Time!]] ...you're disrespectful of the financials. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u545	Thank you, Member. I would just like to inform you that none of the Members of the Law and Justice have spoken so far. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u546	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's not about restricting the Ombudsman, it's about building a better efficiency and efficiency of offices, which the State in the Civic Platform couldn't do for eight years. [[It's best to take all the money.]] We're trying to fix it. [[Applause]] [[God, protect me.]] And I don't think he has any better motivation for acting as an official than if he took some money and saw that he had to do better. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u547	Mr Zbigniew Babalski, the Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u548	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Civic Platform, how much hypocrisy does it take to attack the Law and Justice today that we weaken the position of spokesperson? Do you remember the time when Mrs Lipowicz was spokesperson? In those days the Ombudsman's Office was closed in Olsztyn. I can show you the answer: because the budget has been reduced. That's what it looked like. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: No, that's not true.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u549	We'll proceed with the vote. [[Ad vocem.]] You've already asked the question. No one was referring to you. We're voting on it. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 45 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. One Member abstained from voting 271 against - 176. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. Let's move on to the 46th amendment. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question was asked by Rafał Wójcikowski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u550	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I ask the question: Wouldn't the Polish state look better if we started repairing public finances and reducing spending in the administration? At the National Radio and Television Council - by 9.8 million, at the National Election Office in the year without elections - 31 million and of course for public finances, financial institutions - by 183 million. Together we will reduce administrative expenditure, no one needs it - in the latter case they are tax houses and tax offices, citizens will be pleased [[Applause]] - reduce this by 225 million and reduce the budget deficit. We will start repairing public finances, as we talked about during the budget debate, instead of protecting those years of funding that are. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u551	Please. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Platform, requested the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u552	Dear Marshal, I have a great request to follow the rules of procedure, because the rapporteur, when answering the question about the amendment, is unfortunately not responding to the amendment. Therefore, any questions to the rapporteur make no sense. [[Then why are you asking them?]] Any questions to the Prime Minister make no sense if you do not have the President's permission. So, Mr President, from now on, if there are any questions to the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister will be able to... [[But these are only questions to the rapporteur, you don't know the rules.]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] ...to give answers, will she have your permission?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u553	This is not exactly a question of Amendment 46. Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u554	Mr. Marshal! Membership! Mr Terlecki! Now we're gonna wave. I agree with Mr Kukiz15, who just said not to give money to the Ombudsman, because then it will be more effective. You all clapped when he said that. Then, if not giving money leads to efficiency, why would you suggest giving 20 million Rydzyk's father's school? [[Applause]] Why? [[Voice from the room: Because it's good!]] I've got a proposition for you. Mr. President, you like to come to my hometown. Rydzyk's school can handle it. She doesn't have to get that money. [[Voice from the hall: Father Rydzyk!]] ... It's gonna be effective. [[Joy in the Chamber]] But there is a high school in Toruń, which is the best high school in Poland in all rankings. Give this university $20 million. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u555	As corrected by Rafał Wójcikowski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u556	You misunderstood my speech, my question. Catholic priest... [[But you're the rapporteur?]] ...he is not a public official and the state budget does not need to require him to be more efficient. I don't know what, giving away communion? [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u557	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 46, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 64 Members voted against - 374, two Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 47th amendment. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The adoption of this amendment requires amendment of Annex 6. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 47 with the consequence would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. The vote was 254 votes against - 186, with five abstentions. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. We're moving on to the 91st minority request. The question was asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u558	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The amendment provides for a reduction of only half a million of the expenditure of the National Council of Radio and Television and the Public Procurement Office and for the same amount of the general reserve and the allocation of these funds to finance or finance tasks arising from the law on anti-violence in the family. This is a very important task of interest to all parliamentary clubs. Every institution I've talked about, without the small ones against their budgets, will do just fine. However, these small measures will increase the budget for these important tasks by 100%. For these small resources, the government will be able to do twice as much good in these important matters. So I ask the High House to support this proposal on this very important issue and I also ask the government whether it would like to support this amendment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u559	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 91st minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 53 Members voted against - 385, 6 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. Let's move on to the 48th amendment. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question was asked by Małgorzata Zwierzan, a Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u560	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! A month ago, we passed a new law on the functioning of public television. The reason for the change was the fact that so far public television did not fulfil the mission it was called for, especially in the field of culture and the protection of national heritage and patriotic education of young people. As a result of the new law, the duties of the National Radio and Television Council have decreased significantly. Would it not be appropriate to allocate some of the funds planned in the budget to the Council for the direct increase of cultural and national heritage expenditure, in particular teaching activities, to youth patriotic education? Please support this amendment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u561	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 48 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 46 Members voted against - 397, three Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 49th amendment. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question was asked by Mr Sitarski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u562	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Is it true that one of the many examples of wasted taxes obtained from work is the prime labour inspector's nomen omen? Do not confuse with the State Labour Inspection, which is very much needed. The Chief Labour Inspector has requested an increase of 26 million in the budget. This institution requires a thorough reform, not pumping into it additional resources that are wasted on exquisite rauts, galas. Why, by appealing for reasonable spending, are we proposing an amendment that will allow another 21 million to be wasted? [[God's Messenger Boris-Raccoon: Shame on you!]] And now, yes, 21 million. All 20 million will be agreed here: here the missing 20 million and 1 million per ambulance for the other side - everyone will be happy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u563	Please. Mr Krzysztof Brejza, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u564	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Labour law - as this amendment concerns the reduction of State Labour Inspection expenditure - is very important. As a matter of fact, today's session of the Sejm was postponed until noon. 21 because of the political gala. We as Members, 460 Members, can work, we can fulfill certain whims, because we have abnormal working time, but here are the employees of the Sejm who work on employment contracts. Therefore, I have a question: Will these people be paid overtime and work allowances... [[Voice from the room: From the money of the PiS.]] ...in the night hours and will the organizers of this gala cover these costs or will these costs fall on the taxpayer? [[Which colonel wrote this to you?]] Finally, I address your Marshal under Art. 21 Act on the implementation of the mandate of a Member and a Senator with oral intervention - as the State Labour Inspection is subject to you - to carry out this check and answer these questions. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u565	Thank you, sir. Of course, your question and your appeal, if that's how I can accept it... [[It's a fact.]] [[Reasonable.]] [[The poor locker room sits up until the hour. Three in the morning because of your whims.]] ...not applicable to the 49th amendment. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 49 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 58 Members voted against - 384, two Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 50th amendment. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 50 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. There were 261 Members voted against - 175, with six abstentions. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. We're moving on to the 92nd minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 92nd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 180 Members voted against - 233, 18 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. We move on to the 93rd minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 93rd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 184 Members voted against - 233, 21 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the minority's motion. We move on to the resolution of the 51st amendment. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 51 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. Four Members abstained in favour of 364 against 74. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. We're moving on to the 94th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 94th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. There were 180 Members voted against - 238 and 24 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the minority's motion. We're moving on to the 95th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 95th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. There were 179 Members voted against - 236, 28 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. We're moving on to the 96th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 96th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 176 Members voted against - 259, 6 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. Let's move on to the 54th amendment. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 54 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 362 Members voted against - 72, with five abstentions. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. Let's move on to the 55th amendment. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 55, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 316 Members voted against - 116, 9 Members abstained. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. We're moving on to the 97th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 97th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 141 Members voted against - 268, 33 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. [[Mr Krystyna Skowrońska approaches the marshal]] [[Oh, look out, 'cause there's this...]] [[Voice from the room: Attention, threat!]] Let's move on to the 56th amendment. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 56, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. There were 392 Members voted against - 47 and three Members abstained. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. Let's move on to the 57th amendment. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The adoption of this amendment requires amendment of Annex 6. And the amendment is long. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 57, along with the consequence, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. There have been 5 abstentions in favour of 366 Members against - 73. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. [[Voice from the room: No consequences.]] Let's move on to the 58th amendment. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 58, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 422 Members voted against - 18, with 5 abstentions. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. We're moving on to the 98th minority request. The question was asked by Rafał Wójcikowski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u566	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are repairing again, although this time symbolically, public finances and increasing the efficiency of the functioning of offices, this time by PLN 1 million. On the other hand, we believe that such a need as additional money for Polish education abroad in the context of what the clubs declared, especially the club Law and Justice, in terms of taking care of Poles abroad... is a very reasonable conclusion when it comes to increasing expenditure. Thank you very much. [[Well, you're about to find out.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u567	There you go. Let's move on to the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 98th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 92 Members voted against - 348 and 1 abstention. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. Let's move on to the 59th amendment. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 59 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. There have been 9 abstentions for 236 Members against 196. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. Let's move on to the 60th amendment. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question was asked by Rafał Wójcikowski, a Kukiz club15. [[He's quitting.]] And you are? Is this Mr Wójcikowski? No. [[There isn't.]] Oh, he's not here. [[He wasn't.]] Then we shall proceed to the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 60 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. The vote was 39 against - 400, with five Members holding back. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 61st amendment. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 61st amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. Four Members abstained for the 376 vote against 62. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. We're moving on to the 99th minority request. The questions have been raised by the Members. Mrs. Isabella Leszczyn, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u568	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Prime Minister! The fact that there is no water supply in the municipality of Koniecpol is known to the whole of Poland, because you, when going there, informed all possible television stations and all possible radio stations. And you stood in front of the cameras and misled the people of this community and the public, because you said that the previous government, instead of giving money to the waterworks, put them on a TV spot about sorting out garbage. That's not true. You know, if it weren't for the last two months to be your government's financial decisions, this waterworks would have been long overdue. And now the question about the taxpayer's money. Prime Minister, tell us: What better way to spend the taxpayer's money, or on an educational spot that teaches us how to sort out garbage, or on a spot where the Prime Minister of the Government hangs bombs on a Christmas tree, in addition to Minister Macierewicz? [[Applause]] [[With our money.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u569	Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u570	I have a question for the Prime Minister: Is this about the same waterworks that the Prime Minister promised to build, or is this some other waterworks in Koniecpol? Thank you. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u571	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 99th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 198 Members voted against - 237, 9 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the minority's motion. We're moving on to the 100th minority request. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] The question will be asked by Mr Wojciech Król, the Civic Platform. [[Eight years.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u572	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! A minute is actually very little time to quote all the arguments in favour of this investment, but I would like to appeal to Members of the Law and Justice, especially Members of the Law and Justice of Silesia, to support... [[And the question?]] ...this minority request and allocated PLN 10 million to draw up the design documentation of the Road Diameter Route. It is a very important investment for the Silesian voivodship, important for Mysłowice, Jaworzna, Katowice, for Sosnowiec. I'm asking for your support. Given your gesture to the director's father yesterday, your doctor's spin, I think that 10 million is really not much. Please support this request. [[Eight years.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u573	How do I put this? Ladies and gentlemen, once again, this is not a question to the rapporteur, who may possibly answer on behalf of the Members of the Committee, but is an appeal which is not a question. [[But it was to the government, too.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 100th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. The vote was 198, against - 243, six Members abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. Let's move on to the 101st minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 101st minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 202 Members voted against - 224, 8 Members abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We move on to the 102nd minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 102nd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 199 Members voted against - 233, 9 Members abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 103rd minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 103rd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. There were 197 Members voted against - 240, 8 Members abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We move on to the 104th minority request. Mr Wojciech Król, the Civic Platform Club, is asking the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u574	Mr. Marshal! I would like to ask you a question, but I don't want to extend the queue of questions because the Prime Minister... [[Voice from the room: Now get down.]] ...she hasn't answered my questions about the exposé yet. But I would like to appeal again to Members of Silesia, Members of Law and Justice, and to remind... [[Voice from the room: you were 8 years old.]] ...that recently we had a meeting of New Year's Silesian parliamentarians in the presence of the Archbishop of the metropolitan of Katowice, where the state declared interpartyity in matters concerning Silesia. So you have the perfect opportunity at this point to confirm the credibility of the words said then and vote for the transfer of 3 million to renovate the building of Christ the King's Cathedral in Katowice. Please support this request. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u575	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 104th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 187 Members voted against - 238 and 21 abstentions. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. We move on to the 105th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 105th minority proposal will raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. There were 193 Members voted against - 234, 13 Members abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We move on to the 106th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 106th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 202 Members voted against - 229, with seven abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We move on to the 62nd amendment. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question was asked by Mr Sitarski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u576	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The amendment, which is complex, concerns the purchase of a service car for the President of the Higher Mining Authority. The president himself at the state control committee admitted that he doesn't need to buy a car for 206,000 this year. Evil, for the one who has is good for him. [[Applause]] I would at least ask permission in this regard, because if the president doesn't want to be forced to be happy, why make him happy? It has an excellent superb skoda and it will serve it perfectly for another year. I'm sure this expense is unnecessary. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[And that's true, he's not kidding.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u577	There you go. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 62, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 68 Members voted against - 372, 3 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 63rd amendment. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u578	High Izbo! Mr. Marshal! Again we learn to save and learn to manage rationally. Social Insurance Institution: minus 150 million. Profit: reduced budget deficit. Citizens will be pleased. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u579	Please. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 63, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 62 Members voted against - 370, two Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. The formal proposal is submitted by Monika Wielichowska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u580	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Maybe we can take a look at the president's calendar together, or maybe between 23 and 23.15 we can take a break. We've been working long enough... [[It's not a job.]] I think we deserve 15 minutes. Mr. Marshal, I request a recess, this is a formal conclusion. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u581	Well, actually... [[Voice from the room: Break!]] I understand it's the club's request. Or just the Member? Because you started... [[Yeah, the club.]] The club. Fifteen minutes off. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 23 a.m. 23 min 16]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 1 of the agenda. Let's move on to the 64th amendment. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Ms Agnieszka Szczaj, Kukiz club15, asks. [[Game in the O.R.]] I ask Members to take their seats. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u582	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The Kukiz Club15 submitted a reduction in expenditure on the Social Insurance Institution. However, this is not about the whole ZUS, it is about one particular item: sending data where the 410 million is allocated to ZETO. ZETO, which has been providing data and services in Polish institutions for many, many years, has already earned millions. I ask for a transfer of at least 50 million to the current Civil Initiative Fund, for NGOs, because I am convinced that NGOs will do much more for these 50 million for the elderly as well as for people with disabilities than ZETO. I will also reply to Ms Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, who said that we want to restrict civil liberties by limiting the Ombudsman's budget. I am convinced that NGOs are better at dealing with civil rights, much more effectively than any official. So this is our club's conclusion. I'm asking for his support.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u583	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Mr Marshal, in correction mode.]] Wait, what correction? [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: I was mentioned by name and surname.]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: No.]] [[She was.]] Sorry, I didn't hear you mention it. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: I was mentioned by name.]] [[Voice from the room: ex-wife, ex-wife.]] [[Voice from the room: There is no mode.]] I think this is what we are going to do. Ladies and gentlemen, in the future, remember. In such cases, if the Member does not speak and is misunderstood... [[Voice from the room: There is no correction.]] ...wants to be corrected, not spoken, that is a special point every day - the parliamentary statements. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] But I'm really sorry. Please don't clap because there's no need. [[Joy in the Chamber]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 64, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 404 Members voted. 61 voted against - 341, two Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. We're moving on to the 107th minority request. There's a question. The question is asked by Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u584	Dear Marshal, Dear Prime Minister, Dear Prime Minister Professor, In October last year, President Andrzej Duda signed the Act on Revitalization, it is a good bill, and also in October during the election campaign debate we agreed with the Prime Minister that Łódź needs to be revitalized. Today we heard another good news. Minister Waszczykowski said that he would support activities so that the exhibition Expo could be organized in Łódź, it was the Theme Expo devoted to regeneration. Will I be lucky to announce to the Łódź on Monday that thanks to the votes of the Prime Minister, Minister Łódź will receive funds for revitalization in the budget? [[Applause]] [[Don't count on it.]] [[Voice from the room: 8 years.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u585	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 107th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 188 voted against 226 and 17 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We're looking at 108. minority request. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 108th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 184 voted against - 224, with 23 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We're looking into 109. minority request. The question is asked by Marek Owa, the Civic Platform Club. [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u586	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! You guys keep having so much fun. [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] To counter and eliminate natural disasters for the last eight years... [[Marshal, do you hear that?]] ...the government of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party has allocated over PLN 10 billion. [[Voice from the Owl Room: The Owl was attacked.]] The lowest amount was 1 billion 200. The state in this budget only allocates 800 million PLN. You should be aware that you are unable to carry out even those tasks for which commitments have already been made. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha...]] Aren't you ashamed, Prime Minister, to give such an important issue to all the people of our country less than the Civic Platform? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u587	Thank you. However, I have only a request to your Members that we behave as we should in the Parliament's Chamber. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Mr. Marshal, may I?]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 109th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[I'd like to ask a formal motion, Mr. Marshal.]] 445 Members voted. 151 Members voted against - 282 and 12 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. [[Formal conclusion.]] Mrs Magdalena Kochan with a formal proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u588	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, I'd like to ask for a five-minute break... [[Voice from the room: No.]] ...so we can think about where we are, what we decide today. Why minority proposals are rejected, I understand that, but I can't understand why you are insulting all parliamentary rules, [[Applause]] You're beating up parliamentarianism, you're behaving like a man with a specific name, and he's about to get scared... [[Eight years!]] [[Voice from the room: How did we feel?]] ...to enter the pulpit to carry out your duties as Members. How can you not be ashamed? [[We're gonna quack by other names or we're gonna gobble.]] Then you're surprised that politics is what they are. If we do not earn a good reputation for parliamentarians who really care about the interests of their countrymen, care for the interests of our country's citizens, and you act as if we are... [[Tell that to Niesiolovski!]] I'm talking to all of us, I'm talking to all of us. And I don't remember being per you with you, I don't remember. [[Formal conclusion.]] On the other hand, I'm simply asking that we realize where we are. This is a parliament. [[Applause]] The legislative power of our country. Think about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u589	Thank you, Member. I understand that this is an appeal to all Members not to comment more in the future... [[No, no, it's for Law and Justice.]] [[Voice from the hall: One club.]] And I urge Mr Niesiołowski not to comment at the moment, Mr Niesiołowski. [[Voice from the Chamber: To the Members on the right.]] Please behave as you should in the Seym. [[I'll quack.]] We're moving on to the 110th minority request. The question is raised by Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u590	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! An appeal, Minister, I don't see you, Minister Adamczyk. [[Voice from the room: The question was meant to be.]] I would like to address Minister Adamczyk. [[Rise in the room, ring the bell]] The Minister spoke yesterday about not missing out on certain opportunities. I wanted to tell you about the investment, give you some information about the investment... [[Voice from the room: But the question...]] ...which concerns just such a situation that, if not now, it never, because we have the last tranche of such large EU funds and it will not happen again. I mean the way Mr Jaworski knows very well, the Green Way with the tunnel under Pachołek. The road, which is very much needed by the entire Gdańsk agglomeration, not only as regards Gdańsk, but also Sopot, access to the ring road. I would like to ask the Minister as well as the Members. [[♪ The bell ♪]] from the Gdansk district, who unfortunately voted against this investment at the committee meeting, I am talking about my favourite Members: Mr Jaworski and Mr Cymanski...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u591	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u592	Maybe they'll change their minds and accept it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u593	Thank you. Mrs Ewa Lieder, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u594	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I don't agree with you, I'm also a Member from Pomerania... [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] ...and it would seem like I should be enjoying 150 million on Green Road documentation. And that would be an unreasonable amount of money spent and an unreasonable investment. We'd have to add $2 billion to that investment. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] The construction of this road raises great controversy among the inhabitants of Gdańsk, because the coastal belt and the beach would be cut off from the rest of the city, which is not at all the attention of the PO. [[Voice from the room: Uh...]] This multi-lane road shouldn't go through the middle of town. That's not how you build cities today. [[Applause]] This money can be spent in different ways, you need 500+, so I think they should stay there this time. [[Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus: Bravo!]] I hope you will appreciate that we will vote like the PiS this time, although you have a different motivation. [[Oh...]] And support our important other investments, such as the metropolitan ring road in Gdansk [[♪ The bell ♪]] and a bridge taken to Sobieszewska Island, unless you intend to fly planes or helicopters there. Thank you. [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Joachim Brudziński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u595	Thank you very much, Member. The rapporteur, Mr Jaworski, asked for the floor. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u596	Thank you. Mr Marshal, not as rapporteur now, but as a Member from Gdansk. I don't agree to this road either, I've said it many times. We cannot enter into Byzantine investments that destroy Gdansk, which destroy nature, which cause nothing. [[They don't cause anything.]] And if, Mrs Adamowicz, it is about the bridge to Sobieszewska Island, after all, the Marshal of Pomeranian Voivodeship from the Civic Platform, President Paweł Adamowicz from the Civic Platform repeatedly assured that this bridge would be created by the funds of the EU Marshal of Pomeranian Voivodeship. [[Applause]] [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u597	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. [[Mr. Marshal, is there any way to correct this?]] Madam President, we are already in the middle of a vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 110th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. At 152 against 283, 12. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. Let's move on to the 111th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 111th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the room: Faster.]] 447 Members voted. For 194, against 237, 16. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We're moving on to the 112th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 112th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. In 192 against 237, 18 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We're moving on to the 113th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. [[I'm saved.]] Are you registered? [[I won't.]] You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u598	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This investment is very important to all and worthy of support. Why the PS Members voted against their own electorate, I do not understand. I mean the historic, beautiful bridge in Tczew. Mr Cymanski, this is your closest electorate. I don't know why you did it. I ask you to secure money for the second stage of the renovation of the historic bridge in Tczew in Vistula. As you know, the first stage is almost complete, and now we are waiting for the second stage. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u599	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 113rd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. In 190, against 238, 17 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We're moving on to the 114th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 114th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. In 199, against 243, six stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We're moving on to the 115th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 115th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. In 188, against 236, 25 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We're moving on to the 116th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 116th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. In 187, against 238, 22 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We're moving on to the 117th minority request. The question has been asked by Krystyna Sibińska. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u600	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The government of the Civic Platform together with the Management Board of the Lubuskie Voivodeship led to the extension of the provincial hospital in Gorzów Wielkopolski. Inexpensive amount - over PLN 250 million. The Civic Platform government has also secured the construction of an air rescue base. And that's very good. On the other hand, the health needs map published by the Minister of Health shows, not only the map, but also the needs previously diagnosed, that a radiation centre should be established in Gorzów. However, the Minister has not put money in the budget for this facility, and it should be written down. Hence such an amendment and I ask you very much to support this amendment. And since we're in Gorzów, Prime Minister, I'd like to ask you one more question. During the election campaign you were in Gorzów, promised to support the formation of the Gorzow Academy, appropriate [[♪ The bell ♪]] the application has been made. I'm very happy for you, but please tell me...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u601	But, Commissioner, unfortunately, time has run out, so thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u602	...where there's money saved to support this academy. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u603	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the 117th minority request, will be willing to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. For - 197, against - 238, holding 13. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We're moving on to the 118th minority request. The question was asked by Mrs Danuta Pietraszewska. You're welcome, my fellow Member. [[Voice from the room: Half a minute.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u604	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! This proposal refers to the continuation of the construction of a strategically important road for the Silesian region linking A4 to the Central Route. Currently, construction is at the second stage. Already in 2006, we tabled an amendment to finance this investment, but the amendment was lost because two Members, unfortunately Silesian, did not vote. Then eight good years came and the investment moved on. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha.]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, the money we need has been found. [[Joy in the Chamber]] for the first stage, now the city finances the second stage. I cordially ask all Members of the Silesian Law and Justice to support the second approach [[♪ The bell ♪]] this investment because it's really necessary and important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u605	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 118th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[But slower for you to come, Marshal.]] 448 parliamentarians voted. For - 197, against - 237, with a hold of 14. The Sejm's motion is denied. Let's move on to the 65th amendment. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 65 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? I state that the Sejm... Excuse me, we're waiting for the results. 447 Members voted. For - 182, against - 237, with 28 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. We're moving on to the 119th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 119th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. For - 189, against - 235, halted 23. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We are moving to the examination of the 120th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 120th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. For - 191, against - 233, 20 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We are moving to the examination of the 121st minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 121st minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. For - 181, against - 239, with 27. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We are moving to the conclusion of the 122nd minority proposal. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 122nd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. For - 182, against - 235, holding 30. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We're moving on to the 123rd minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 123rd minority request would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. For - 185, against - 236, with 27. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We are moving to the examination of the 124th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 124th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. For - 179, against - 241, the 28. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We are moving to the examination of the 125th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 125th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. For - 196, against - 237, the 15. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We're moving on to the 126th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 126th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. For - 169, against - 258, with a hold of 19. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We are moving to the examination of the 127th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 127th minority request will raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. For - 183, against - 234, the 26. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We are moving to the examination of the 128th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 128th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. For - 180, against - 236, holding 30. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We're moving on to the 129th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 129th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. For - 187, against - 234, with a hold of 24. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. Let's move on to the 66th amendment. Commission requests rejection of this amendment We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 66 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members took part in the vote. For -50, against -384, the 12. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. We're moving on to 130. a minority proposal. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of 130. a minority request, he'll want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. For - 183, against - 236, with 28 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. Let's move on to 131. a minority proposal. The question was asked by Mr Bogusław Sonik. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u606	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! 131. the minority request concerns an increase in the budget of the President of the Republic of Poland in this part, which refers to the National Fund for Revalorisation of Krakow's Monuments. As you know, this project has been going on for many years. During the previous term of office, presidential funds of around 200 million were transferred. But next year there is a unique event in Cracow, a world event, so I have this question: Will the High Chamber, its majority, want to increase this budget? Recently, Polish Radio extended the transmission of the Marian hejnał from the Mariacka Tower, so it would also be appropriate for you to agree to increase this budget line in this case. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u607	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of 131. a minority request, he'll want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. Za - 174, against - 266, abstained 6. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We're moving on to 132. a minority proposal. The question was asked by Bożena Kamińska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u608	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I was inspired to ask the question about this amendment by the Deputy Minister of Infrastructure and Construction of Mr Jerzy Szmit from Law and Justice, who said that the areas of Eastern Poland should be particularly invested in communication. [[Voice from the room: True.]] Under the rule of the Civic Platform and PSL, the Rail Baltica section was modernised from Warsaw to Białystok. We want this amendment to allow for the continuation of the modernisation of the further section - from Bialystok to Trakishek, the border with Lithuania. It is an important corridor of transport and freight, and personal, in particular for the Podlaskie voivodship. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Members of the PO from the Podlaskie Voivodship have submitted a request from a minority. I ask the question: Why do the Members of the Law and Justice not want to continue such an important investment...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u609	If you would be kind enough to fit in a minute with a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u610	...for the Podlaskie voivodship and do not support the position of their minister? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u611	Thank you, Member. We're moving on to 132... I'm sorry. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of 132. a minority request, he'll want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. For - 188, against - 236, stopped 20. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. Let's move on to 133. a minority proposal. The question was asked by Mrs Bożena Kamińska. I ask you, Madam, to fit in at the appointed time and ask, not to give monologues. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u612	Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. Prime Minister! High Izbo! The request of minority members of the Civic Platform from the Podlaskie voivodship concerns the continuation of the construction of further sections of the expressway S61, so-called. Via Baltica, on the Suwałki section - border crossing in Budzisk. It is a strategic road transport corridor linking Western Europe with the countries of Eastern Europe and Scandinavia. [[Question.]] Under the Platform's and PSL's governments, Stawisk, Szczuchczyn, Augustów and Suwałk's ring road were built on these sections. Why do the Members of the Law and Justice not want to allocate a small amount of PLN 10 million to continue the construction of the S61 road so much needed for the inhabitants of the region and Suwałszczyzna? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u613	Thank you. The question was also asked by Mr Jerzy Polaczek. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u614	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I rarely speak here, but I didn't. In the context of the last two speeches, I have a question to the government: Is it true, Minister of Infrastructure, that the issue previously voted - Rail Baltica - has been adopted by your government and is in 144th position in reserve? [[Voice from the room: There is no reserve.]] This is a European project, which is also implemented through EU funds, including Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia, so that you can think about what you are talking about today from this tribune, what are these fairy tales about. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u615	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of 133. a minority request, he'll want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. For - 188 Members, against - 239, 20 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We're moving on to 134. a minority proposal. The question was asked by Mrs Bożena Kamińska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u616	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Another minority proposal concerns the financing of the implementation, the construction of the road S19 Białystok - Lublin, the section so called. Via Carpathia. Today, on this speaker, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Waszczykowski particularly stressed the important role of this road corridor running at the eastern border of our country. I ask the question: Why do the Members of the Law and Justice not want to allocate PLN 10 million to start building and implement this section of such an important path of strategic importance? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u617	The question was also raised by Mr Jerzy Polaczek. [[But that's not a question, that's a statement - he didn't hate it. That's not a question.]] [[Why didn't he?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u618	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the context of the amendment on the implementation of part S19, I would like to remind you of the fundamentals. This European project was written in 2006 - you did everything you could to ensure that this expressway was not created - as the most important international project of Poland on the north-south transport axis. [[Applause]] You have to have some honor. How can you ask such questions? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u619	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of 134. a minority request, he'll want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. For - 182 Members, against - 245, abstained 22. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We're moving on to 135. a minority proposal. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of 135. a minority request, he'll want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. For - 190 Members, against - 237, the 18. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. Let's move on to 136. a minority proposal. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of 136. a minority request, he'll want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. For - 188 Members, against - 251, there were 10 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We're moving on to 137. a minority proposal. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 137. a minority request, he'll want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. For - 182 Members, against - 236, abstained 27. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. Let's move on to 138. a minority proposal. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of 138. a minority request, he'll want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. For - 180 Members, against - 239, abstained 21. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. Let's move on to 139. a minority proposal. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the adoption of 139. a minority request, he'll want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. For - 176 Members, against - 240, with 28 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We're moving on to the 140th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 140th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. For - 179 Members, against - 235, abstained 33. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. Let's move on to the 141st minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 141st minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. For - 179 Members, against - 242, the 27. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We're moving on to the 142nd minority request. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski asked the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u620	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Dear Prime Minister, High Izbo! For eight years, the Platform has been building roads. She built a few thousand of them. It also built railway tracks and built several thousand of them. [[To whom she built it, she built it.]] The fact is that between 2014 and 2015 she built and modernised railway line No.58, which opened a corridor between Warsaw, the subregion of the western Silesian voivodeship, by Rybnik, Wodzisław, up to the border, to the Czech Republic, to Prague. Since 13 December, the train to Prague was launched on this line, but the fact remains that the section between Wodzisław and the Chałupki with the construction of the railway station remained to implement this project. I have a proposal: support this proposal. Minister Adamczyk, we will have a chance to see how well you carry out this investment and whether it will actually be cheaper. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u621	Thank you, sir, but ask, not conclude. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 142nd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. For-- 191, against-- 237, holding off on 18. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We're moving on to the 143rd minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 143rd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. For-- 191, against-- 234, holding off on 19. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. Let's move on to the 67th amendment. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. [[No, the question was.]] That's not a question. With regard to the minority proposal, the question is, up to 144. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 67 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members took part in the vote. For - 101, against - 318, the 24. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. We're moving on to the 144th minority request. You asked Bożena Kamińska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u622	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! This is another amendment by Members of the Civic Platform of the Podlaskie Voivodeship who are proposing to secure funds for the programming concept of the Łomża ring road within S61, which is also Via Baltica. It is an investment very expected by the inhabitants of Łomża, through which thousands of tirors pass in terms of their safety as well as economic development. I have a question: Why once again do Members of the Law and Justice not want to support the territory of Eastern Poland, of which all ministers here say that these are very important areas in terms of investment, road and rail support? I would like to ask you to remember the areas of Eastern Poland which expect this support and continuation of the investments started. Thank you very much. [[Eight years!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u623	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 144th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. For - 186, against - 234, halted 23. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We're moving on to the 145th minority request. Mr. Krzysztof Gadowski came forward with a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u624	Mr. Marshal! Dear Prime Minister, High Izbo! In August, the majority of those sitting here in the hall attend the commemorative celebrations of August 1980 - in Szczecin, Gdańsk, you also come to Jastrzębie-Zdrój. You come and say you respect the miners, you respect what they did in the 1980s for Poland, you say it needs to be appreciated. This amendment, ladies and gentlemen, concerns the construction of the Hawk-Zdrój Solidarity House. We have a European house of solidarity in Gdansk, we have a Centre for Dialogue in Szczecin. Prime Minister, I ask you to support this amendment. The Council of Ministers has already taken the first step. Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz signed the construction of the Solidarity House for Silesia on 30 August. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Time's up.]] In June, 30 June 2015, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2015/1333 [2] appointing the
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u625	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u626	...the local government has prepared the area, and it is ready to carry out this task. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u627	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 145th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. For - 188, against - 238, holding off on 20. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We're moving on to the 146th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 146th minority request will raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. For - 184, against - 234, 27 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We're moving on to the 147th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 147th minority request would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. For - 179, against - 262, with a hold of 5. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We're moving on to the 148th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 148th minority request would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. For - 183, against - 237, halted 23. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're moving on to the 149th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 149th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. For - 197, against - 233, with a hold of 14. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. Let's move on to 69. Corrections. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 69 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. For - 187, against - 230, halted 23. The Sejm rejected the amendment. [[Voice from the room: 68. Stay!]] It has been withdrawn, sir. Let's move on to the 70th amendment. Andrzej Maciejewski came forward with a question. Did the Member give up this question? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 70 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. For - 189, against - 235, holding 22. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 150th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 150th minority request will raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. For - 183, against - 236, holding 30. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We're moving on to the 151th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 151st minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. For -190, against - 235, 20 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We're moving on to the 152nd minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 152nd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. For - 183, against - 237, holding 22. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We're moving on to the 153rd minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 153rd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. For - 191, against - 235, 20 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We're moving on to the 154th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 154th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. For - 180, against - 239, the 25. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We're moving on to the 155th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 155th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. For - 201, against - 233, with 11 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. Let's move on to the 71st amendment. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 71 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. For - 178, against - 267, holding down 3. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. We're moving on to the 156th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 156th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. For - 200, against - 241, stopped 5. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We're moving on to the 157th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 157th minority request would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. For - 187, against - 235, the 25. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We're moving on to the 158th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 158th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. For - 189, against - 235, 20 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We move on to the 72nd amendment. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 72 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. For - 421, against - 3 Members, the 22. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. Let's move on to the 159th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 159th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. For - 193, against - 243, the 8 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. Let's move on to the 73rd amendment. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 73 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. For - 193, against - 239, with a hold of 14. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. We're moving on to the 160th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 160th minority request would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. For - 167, against - 268, the 12. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We move on to the 74th amendment and the same 161st minority proposal. We will vote on these proposals together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Mr Grabarczyk asked. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u628	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! Law and Justice won elections, among others. thanks to young people's voices. Young people have unsatisfied housing needs. [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice chant: 8 years! Eight years!]] [[♪ The bell ♪]] Eight years ago, when the Civic Platform assumed responsibility for the construction sector, you had a family programme prepared by you. We have improved this programme and thanks to it, the apartments could also be purchased by young people who weren't in families and then replaced this program with a residence program for young people. [[Voice from the room: For developers.]] In April [[♪ The bell ♪]] will run out of money to meet housing needs, because there are about 5 thousand deposits per month. conclusions. We propose to increase the pool of funds to meet housing needs.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u629	But, sir, please make your way to the end.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u630	Will Law and Justice support this amendment? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u631	Mr Jerzy Polakzek, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u632	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! To remind you, was there any mention of any construction in the exposition of Prime Minister Donald Tusk in 2007 and 2011? [[What's your point?]] [[Of course it is, Poland under construction.]] That's first of all. Secondly, after 8 years, does the National Housing Fund exist as a tool for financing the housing programme, or does it not exist? And whoever took out this fund is worth asking. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u633	Minister Andrzej Adamczyk spoke. You're welcome, Minister. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] [[Voice from the room: First time!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u634	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, When I listen to such questions, I think of a quote from Sienkiewicz: The devil dressed himself in an ornat and his tail ringing at Mass. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to remind you that in 2012 the family programme was extinguished on 31 December. The programme adopted by the Government of Law and Justice, which benefited 183 000, was extinguished. Polish families, 183 thousand. beneficiaries. This programme generated 33 billion credits. [[It was supposed to be $3 million...]] The state added PLN 1600 million to this loan, which generated jobs. The Civic Platform government has shut down this program. On 31 December 2012, the programme was extinguished, and one of the articles of the Act - the Minister probably remembers, and I dedicate myself to remembering, Minister, we opposed it - also extinguished the refund of the VAT difference. [[That's not true!]] You took PLN 1100 million from Poles, because on average year-to-year this much was estimated to refund the difference in VAT. 2013 is the year without any state housing policy support instrument, zero, there was no support instrument. [[Zero, that's you.]] The year 2014 is the start year of the MdM programme, the residence for young people. It was often called the developer on its own - that's what the program was called in construction environments, [[Applause]] You dedicated the support program to developers, not Polish families. So don't tell me today that you leaned deeply, especially over young Poles. It was the other way around, you leaned down with the attention of the developers. You've forgotten about young people, [[Applause]] You've forgotten about young people in the country, outside of urban agglomerations... [[That's not true!]] ... You dedicated the program only to those who could buy apartments from developers where developers built apartments. And that's something to remember. When you ask questions today, I propose to the head of this party, here sitting Mr. Schetyna, moderate these speeches. Moderate these speeches, because when there's a question about the road... [[But don't lecture me, just answer me.]] ... Express S19, this is your Member, I answer you. Here, in this programme, which your government adopted in September 2015, the roads you are asking for are included in the post 2018. What do you call on Members of the Law and Justice? So they can channel the funds? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Go to those who are here, sit in the courtroom, and they are the authors of this program. Ladies and gentlemen, humility... [[You're in charge of the tribunal...]] ...humble and humble again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u635	Thank you, Minister. But you weren't mentioned at all, sir. We're coming... [[Voice from the room: What do you mean no?]] Mr... [[Voice from the room: He was!]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 74th Amendment and... [[Mr. Marshal...]] [[What's this? That's breaking the rules!]] Come here. [[He was asking a question!]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 74th amendment and the 161st minority proposal will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. For - 160, against - 278, the 7. The Sejm rejected the proposals. We're moving on to the 162nd minority request. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska asked. [[The voice from the hall: Jesus...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u636	Dear Marshal, First of all, Mr. Marshal in corrective mode should give the floor to Marshal Grabarczyk. [[Voice from the room: He shouldn't!]] That's a rule-of-law remark. [[Game in the O.R.]] Secondly, Minister Adamczyk carried out the vivisection of the housing program so thoroughly. [[That's right!]] Have you forgotten? Years 2005, 2006 and 2007/20013 million apartments. [[Applause]] [[3 million apartments.]] You didn't say anything about that in this room. I would also like to say to Minister Adamczyk, to remind him of the work in the Special Extraordinary Commission on the new project "Placing for young people." We talked and the Minister is not telling the truth, because then we allowed VAT to be refunded in the implementation of the investment in economic mode. Anyone who built a house could get a VAT refund. And that's not true... [[Voice from the hall: Owl and Friends!]] ...confirmation. One last thing. The secondary market case came up last year. Expanded to the market [[♪ The bell ♪]] Second... [[Time!]] ...because the investments were to be made... [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u637	We thank you very much for all these explanations. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 162nd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. For - 176, against - 238, the 27. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We're moving on to the 163rd minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 163rd minority request would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. For - 187, against - 251, holding down 3. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We're moving on to the 164th minority request. The question was raised by Mrs Margaret Płępek. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u638	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Amendment 164. concerns the construction of the missing section of the expressway S69 Bielsko-Biała - Zwardoń, so-called. Bypassing the Hungarian Mountains. It is part of the trans-European corridor south of Europe and is included in the existing national road construction programme. It is the most expected road investment in the Żywiecki district and neighbouring districts. It is a priority for our country. Deputy Minister Kazimierz Smolinski assured me on Wednesday from the Seymary that this task has secured funds for implementation and for the final stage of preparation. Besides, he gave a similar assurance in relation to... [[Time's running out!]] ...of the amendments I tabled regarding the construction of the Beskidska Integration Road. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm asking for an answer because I'm afraid...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u639	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u640	...about the credibility of previous assurances. Are you sure you have the resources for this...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u641	Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u642	...the investment is entered...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u643	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u644	...to the budget and how much? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u645	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 164th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the room: Gretel, vote!]] [[Voice from the room: She didn't vote for her...]] [[I voted!]] 438 Members voted. For - 178, against - 238, the 22. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. Let's move on to the 75th amendment. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 75 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. For -342, against -90, with a hold of 10. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. We are moving to a review of the 165th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 165th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. For - 169, against - 258, with a hold of 8. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. Let's move on to the 166th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 166th minority request will raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. For - 186, against - 235, halted 23. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We're moving on to the 167th minority request. Krystyna Sibińska came forward with a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u646	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Line 203 is the historic line of Berlin - the Royals. I assure you with full responsibility that there is no hidden German option behind this, but the interest of the residents is in this regard. During the reign of the Civic Platform, we spent 60 million on the renovation of the Kostrzyn - Gorzów section. 80 million is devoted to the renovation of the Gorzów estakady. More money is needed, among others. to electrify this railroad. Minister Andrzej Adamczyk, I ask for this money because it is possible to start an alternative route and connect Bydgoszcz - Piła - Krosz - Szczecin - Gorzów without having to change the locomotive to the exhaust. It saves 20 and 30 minutes, but it also saves money, and that's what this is all about. It's time for your turn. I think that you, who worked for the Committee on Infrastructure for so many years, know that very well. The money for the railroad is here, I'm asking for the money. [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u647	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 167th minority request would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. For - 186, against - 232, holding 22. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We're moving on to the 168th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 168th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. For - 184, against - 233, 20 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We're moving on to the 169th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 169th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. For - 137, against - 285, holding off on 20. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. Let's move on to the 76th amendment. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question was asked by Małgorzata Zwierzan from the Kukiz club15. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u648	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! In August 2015, the Act on anti-communist opposition activists and those repressed for political reasons adopted by the Sejm entered into force. After 26 years, the Sejm of free Poland remembered our heroes. Today, these people live very modestly and sometimes on the verge of poverty. The bill does not sufficiently safeguard the needs of these people. The amendment increases the funds for the Office for Combatants and Persons Impressed for Benefits, not for the construction of monuments. I ask the High House to support me.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u649	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 76, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. For - 91, against - 340, the 9. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We're moving on to the 170th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 170th minority request will raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. For - 114, against - 318, with a hold of 8. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We're moving on to the 171th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 171st minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. For - 173, against - 246, the 25. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We are moving to the examination of the 172nd minority request. Mr. Grzegorz Furgo, the Modern Club, signed up for the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u650	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! 172. the minority proposal concerns the Tricity ring road. The state probably travels very often this way bypassing the Tricity to the peninsula, this is the road connecting with Szczecin. I don't have to add that this is for the Tricity of oxygen - expansion and the money for the ring road. I cannot imagine, Mr Jaworski, that we will look people in Gdansk in the eye when you cut the money for this ring road. It's the foundation, we know it. I call on all Members of the PiS to think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u651	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 172nd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. For - 205, against - 233, holding down 2. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We're moving on to the 173rd minority request. We'll proceed to the vote... Oh, I'm sorry. Ms Ewa Lieder from Moderna has submitted a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u652	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The fact that the applicant, Mr Jaworski, said that for 8 years and even more, this drawbridge to Sobieszewska Island could have been built does not change the fact that there is no bridge. You would not want to be in the place of residents who pass through this bridge every day, or on the place of tourists who, you can say, put their lives at risk. This bridge is very much needed by the residents. The conflict between PO and PiS doesn't change the fact that residents are not guilty of anything here. So please, ladies and gentlemen, vote for this investment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u653	Member of the applicant, rapporteur, sorry, Andrzej Jaworski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u654	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Mrs. Member! Just because an amendment or a minority proposal isn't going to pass doesn't mean there won't be any investment. Please refer to the Law and Justice proposal on the override of the Vistula mine and the part of the infrastructure relating to this large investment. If it comes to that, which I believe very deeply, this problem will also be solved. You don't have to vote on it today. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u655	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 173rd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[This is the last time we're voting for you.]] 441 Members voted. For - 196, against - 239, 6 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We're moving on to the 174th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 174th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[But louder, Marshal, because you can't hear.]] [[No one can hear you, Marshal.]] [[Come on! Come on!]] Good. 425 Members voted. For - 179, against - 221, the 25. [[Voice from the room: Oh!]] The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We move on to the 175th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 175th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. For - 176, against - 229, 27 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We are moving to the examination of the 176th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 176th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. For - 191, against - 233, with 14 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We're moving on to the 177th minority request. The question was asked by Mr Sylvester Khrushch, Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u656	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Improving maritime governance, innovation - a very important thing. It's the money that's gonna come back to us, to the budget. This isn't just money for Szczecin, but this is the whole central coast, this is Kolobrzeg, this is Elbląg, this is Tricity. You can help happiness. I appeal here to my friends in Law and Justice: with this vote, you may be mistaken. [[The voice from the hall: Oh, dear!]] I don't think you're gonna have any consequences here, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u657	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 177th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. For - 187, against - 237, with a hold of 17. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We're moving on to the 178th minority request. Tomasz Nowak from the Civic Platform came forward to ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u658	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The dynamics of the years: 2013 - we start investment by opening investment areas in Konin, we spend several million zlotys on this, and then 2014 by 2015 - the whole infrastructure, the arming of investment areas, 18.8 million. We are approaching a wonderful, wonderful date on October 25th. So? And there are question marks. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha.]] How will these question marks end? [[Joy in the Chamber]] Will the Members of the PiS, to whom I have addressed my argument by letter, help build a road that will open up investment areas, or will these Members of the PiS today surprise and vote in favour of opening investment areas in Konin? [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: It's okay.]] I believe very much that, Wieslaw, you can do it. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u659	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 178th minority request would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. In 186, against 238, 20 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. Let's move on to the 77th amendment. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 77 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. For - 182, against - 238, halted 22. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. We're moving on to the 179th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 179th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. For - 170, against - 235, the 25. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We're moving on to the 180th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the 180th minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. For - 182, against - 231, 23 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. Let's move on to the 181th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 181st minority request would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. For - 189, against - 232, the 13. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We're moving on to the 182nd minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 182nd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. For - 183, against - 230, stopped 24. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We are moving to the examination of the 183rd minority request. We'll proceed to the... [[Mr. Marshal, who, because you can't hear.]] That's right: 183. [[Voice from the room: Hear, hear!]] Ay, 183! [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 183rd minority request would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. For - 179, against - 233, 28 Members abstained. [[Voice from the room: Life.]] The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We are moving to the review of the 184th minority request. We're coming... Ah... [[Voice from the room: Aah!]] Mrs Margaret Navel. You're welcome, my fellow Member. [[Applause]] [[Is the card there?]] [[There it is.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u660	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! [[Voice from the Chamber: Madam, time, time, time we count.]] The issue of amendment 184 guaranteeing the development of the Ethnographic Park of the Żywiec Region in the municipality of Ślemienie is very important from the point of view of tourism development of the whole area. It's lively. The first stage of this investment, which was carried out with the European Union funds, has been completed. The ethnographic park works dynamically and attracts crowds of tourists thanks to its uniqueness and presented values. However, its potential needs to be expanded. Unfortunately, without the support of the state budget, the park will not develop further, and this is extremely important from the point of view of the tourism nature of the whole area. It's lively. Will this be included in the state budget? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: No.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u661	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 184th minority request would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. For - 187, against - 240, holding 18. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. Let's move on to the 78th amendment. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 78 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. For - 194, against - 235, stopped 17. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. We're moving on to the 185th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 185th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. For - 182, against - 230, stopped 24. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We're moving on to the 186th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 186th minority request will raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. For - 182, against - 229, holding 22. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We're moving on to the 187th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the 187th minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. For - 183, against - 237, 16. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We're going over the 188th minority request. The question was joined by Bożena Kaminska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u662	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The request of minority members of the Podlasie Civic Platform concerns the construction of the Sibir Memorial Museum, which is an idea important for the history of the Podlaskie region and Poland. It was from Bialystok during World War II that tens of thousands of people were deported to Siberia. The Białystok government is prepared to start construction, the cost of which is about PLN 50 million. I have a question: Will the Members of the Law and Justice support the minority's request... [[Voice from the room: No. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] ...which will enable the construction of this investment of particular importance for national memory? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u663	Thank you very much. The question is addressed by the Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u664	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! For five years, the Civic Platform has not been practically involved in this project. It was notified in 2010 by me and by my competitor supported by the Civic Platform. Today, despite the fact that in Bialystok is governed by someone else's political option, both Deputy Minister Sellin and Prime Minister Gliński clearly indicated publicly that the Government of Law and Justice wants to support the construction of this important museum, because it is important not only regionally, but it is important for the whole state to build our identity. On this occasion, it is also worth asking the Minister of Finance whether several times the requests made by the Member, when she calls for a reduction in expenditure on the cost of foreign debt service, are reasonable to say that the Civic Platform has led to a double increase in our country's debt over the years and whether such a reduction in expenditure in the current budget has any basis at all. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u665	It was Mr Dariusz Piontkowski. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 188th minority request would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. For - 185, against - 235, 20 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We're moving on to the 189th minority request. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska from the Civic Platform joined the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u666	Many times the Minister of Science and Higher Education, although in a different role, stayed in Rzeszów and knows what the centre of Rzeszow University of Technology is. This proposal concerns funds of PLN 5 million for the construction of the Rzeszow University of Technology dorm. There will be another proposal for funding this university. I think the Minister just didn't put money in the budget for this investment project. And that is the question to the Minister whether the Minister has mistakenly entered this proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u667	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 189th minority request would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. For - 179, against - 237, the 22. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We're moving on to the 190th minority request. Krystyna Sibińska, Civic Platform, joined the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u668	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! After we built $3.5,000. km of motorways and highways, 8.5 thousands. km of local roads, so-called. Schetinski, it's time for the bypasses. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] One such bypass is the bypass of Krosna Odrzański, which was entered into the National Road Construction Program, and unfortunately there was no money for the realisation of this bypass, and this is, ladies and gentlemen, a 110-year-old bridge which is not used to loading such as 14,000. vehicles a day, that's the transport of military vehicles, that's Kronopol wood, that's the future deposit of brown coal. Minister Andrzej Adamczyk! I know I'm about to hear that we overestimated the National Road Construction Program, but that's not true, and you know it. But if so, why the investment? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Are you cutting out of this program? And second of all...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u669	Thank you, Member. Thank you very much. It's been a minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u670	...if you've taken the miracle of building two and a half thousand. After m. ...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u671	Mr Maciej Małecki joined the question. You're welcome, sir. Member, time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u672	...then I think you can handle this ring road as well. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u673	Mr Maciej Małecki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u674	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Since she referred to the subject of the ring road, I would like to remind you that the government of the Platform and the Polish People's Party has built a ring road for Warsaw S8... [[That's not the point, Marshal.]] ...paying PLN 200 million for 1 km. The total amount amounted to about PLN 2 billion. [[And that's not the point, Marshal.]] It is the most expensive road in the world, even more expensive than motorways run by the Alps. [[Minister Szyszko told me to make screens.]] So... [[Voice from the room: Don't lie.]] [[And who prepared the project? Who wrote the tender?]] ... I ask you, do you know the most expensive highway in the world? [[Who wrote the tender? Check it out.]] And if this investment had been carried out in a cost-effective way - without the Porsche I was talking about yesterday - would it have been enough for the ring road reported by the Member? [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] [[A voice from the room: No!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u675	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 190th minority request would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. For - 177 Members, against - 236, with 28 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We're moving on to the 191st minority request. Mr Arkadiusz Marchewka, Civic Platform, took the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u676	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The Western road bypass of Szczecin is one of the most important investment projects for the Western Pomerania and a project particularly important for the economic interests of Szczecin. A few months ago, the Civic Platform government put this road on the list of national roads and highways. Now we need to take another step to achieve this investment. This is a very important undertaking, because: firstly, it reduces the movement of trucks in downtown Szczecin; secondly, it opens up investment areas in the north of the city; thirdly, it improves the transport availability of chemical plants and also the sea port in Police; and fourthly, it paves the way between the Polish-German border and Goleniowo towards the coast. I therefore ask Members of the Law and Justice: Are you able to rise above political differences and support this important [[♪ The bell ♪]] for Szczecin and Western Pomerania project? Especially since recently, the leader of Law and Justice in Western Pomerania, Marshal Brudziński said this: This bypass is in the interest of the national economy. At all costs, efforts must be made to ensure that the circumvention is included in the national expressway networks. PiS leader Jarosław Kaczyński is of the same opinion. [[Voice from the room: Time!]] Mr President, if that is the case, I kindly ask you to vote on this important proposal for Szczecin and Western Pomerania. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Courage, Mr Brudziński, courage.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u677	The question has been asked by Mr... I'll name it at the end. [[Joy in the Chamber]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u678	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! We can't listen to words like that as a scissor. [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] [[Voice from the room: What about the plural?]] How road investments were treated - all - in the Zachodniopomorskie voivodship, where from S3... [[Don't lie to me!]] ...the money was taken to the bypass of Warsaw, where for eight years they had failed to comply with a minor case... [[You're lying!]] Prime Minister Tusk promised 200 million for a piece of the Szczecin highway and did not implement it. As an election sausage at the last minute, Prime Minister Kopacz proposed... [[You're lying!]] No, I'm not lying, I'm just telling the truth. I have a question for the Minister. Is it true that all these promises took place in the last election campaign? We, scissors, know very well, [[♪ The bell ♪]] how we were treated when it comes to road investments. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bravo, Arthur!]] [[Then vote like a scaffold.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u679	Thank you very much, sir. It was Mr Szałabawka. We'll proceed with the vote. [[3 million apartments were also promised!]] [[Green island, too.]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, Sicily.]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 191st minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. For - 189 Members, against - 234, abstained 21. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We're moving on to the 192nd minority request. Tomasz Nowak, the Civic Platform, asked the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u680	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! We'll make a deal. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Voice from the hall: Not yours.]] Prime Minister: 3.5 billion PLN for a big investment in September. Volkswagen's factory is one of the fractions of investments that were made for 8 years by the Civic Platform. There are many such investments. We want to share the success, but in order for us to share the success effectively, you have to put it a little bit. [[Ecology!]] Begin this year with 6 million zlotys to buy the land in September to make the bypass of September so that you can leave the Volkswagen factory. Let us add up to PLN 3.5 billion in the following years. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u681	You're welcome. Mr President, you were going to ask a question, not a business proposition. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 192nd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. For - 188 Members, against - 231, abstained 17. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We're moving on to the 193th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 193rd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. For - 183 Members, against - 234, the 15. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. Let's move on to the 79th amendment. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 79 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. For - 180 Members, against - 236, there were 25 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 80th amendment. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 80 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. Za - 176 Members, against - 246, abstained 19. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. We're moving on to the 194th minority request. Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, the Modern Club, joined the question. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u682	Mr. Marshal! [[Voice from the room: There's Terlecki!]] [[Voice from the courtroom: There's a marshal!]] Mr. Marshal! Honourable Members! I knew you were waiting for this moment of relaxation. I did it for you. I think I'm the only one who brought the whole parliament together yesterday. On the other hand, I have this attention to all Members. I was embarrassed to read the text of this amendment. I don't know whose amendment this is... [[Voice from the room: Yours.]] ...but, ladies and gentlemen, you can't write: revitalization of the market plate. Revitalization is a social, economic and spatial process. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh!]] You passed the Revitalization Act last year. [[A good one.]] At least 260 Members in this Chamber should know that. Don't just make that kind of crap. Thank you. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u683	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 194th minority request would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. For - 172, against - 232, the 26. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We're moving on to the 195th minority request. Tomasz Nowak, the Civic Platform, asked for the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u684	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! [[Let's not do business.]] I was addressing the Prime Minister, and now I will address my piS colleague Witka Czarnecki. You know, in the sugar factory community. [[Applause]] There's a thousand people waiting for you...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u685	You may ask a question to the government or to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u686	...who can't wait to repair the bridge on Bernardine's way. These people are waiting for you to say to them, "Why don't you vote and give us $3.6 million to save a bridge that's in danger of a construction disaster, and that's why there can't be crossings?" Thank you very much. [[We're giving.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u687	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 195th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Wait till we vote.]] 439 Members voted. For - 186, against - 236, stopped 17. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We're moving on to the 196th minority request. The question was asked by Alicia Chybick, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u688	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to talk to you about the investment that the previous government started. Many beautiful clinics have been created, including Cape Hope for those fighting for their children's lives. For me, for my entire professional life, the most important thing was the welfare of the human being, and the most important was the fate of the sick, who are fighting for their lives, and even more important if they are fighting for their health. I wanted to ask: Will there be money at the end of this construction? There's only one element missing, that's building C. Of course, that's a question for the government. Sick people in the region of south-western Poland - because there will be a cross-regional centre of pediatrics, i.e. small children, as well as a trans-regional centre of oncology - that is, patients fighting for their lives [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's what they're waiting for. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u689	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 196th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. For - 193, against - 232, with a hold of 10. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We're moving on to the 197th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 197th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. For - 180, against - 228, holding 22. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We're moving on to the 198th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 198th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. For - 179, against - 235, the 22. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We're moving on to the 199th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 199th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. For - 178, against - 226, the 24. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We're moving on to the 200th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 200th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. For - 177, against - 231, halted 26. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We're moving on to the 201th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 201st minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. For - 183, against - 234, halted 19. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We're moving on to the 202nd minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 202nd minority request would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. For - 166, against - 258, with 11 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We move on to the 81st amendment. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 81 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. For - 405, against - 12, with 28 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We're moving on to the 203rd minority request. Mr. Sylvester Khrushch, Kukiz Club15, joined the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u690	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I'm the one who's probably the last person to ask a question here. [[We hope so.]] My proposal concerns the Oder - Danube channel. This is a project that is still decades old. It is a very large negligence that we did not approach this important project for the whole western wall, for the port in Szczecin. This project is not only requested by the port in Kędzierzyn-Koźl, Opole, Brzeg, Głogów, Gorzów or Szczecin, but it is a very important transport line also for the whole Scandinavia, for the Balkans and for many countries, which here on the north-south line are waiting for our missing section. Prime Minister, the construction of this channel has already been promised by President Kwasniewski, he promised President Komorowski and the Czechs wonder why we haven't started this work yet. That's why I asked for 2 million PLN to start building this channel to start the project. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would like you, Prime Minister, to stab a shovel...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u691	Thank you very much, sir. ...when building this channel. So, please vote in favour of this amendment. Thank you. Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 203rd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. For - 78, against - 332, halted 23. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We're moving on to the 204th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 204th minority request would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. For - 185, against - 234, with a halt of 16. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We're moving on to the 205th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 205th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. For - 183, against - 233, halted 19. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We are moving to the examination of the 206th minority proposal. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 206th minority request will raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. For - 173, against - 253, abstained 14. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We're moving on to the 207th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 207th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. For - 168, against - 231, 20 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We're moving on to the 208th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 208th minority request would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. For - 189, against - 232, holding 21. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We're moving on to the 209th minority proposal. The question was asked by Mr Paweł Arndt, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u692	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The amount of over PLN 137 million for the National Election Office for possible elections in 2016 is entered in item 17 of the special provisions. Doesn't the Minister share my view that this amount is far too high? Therefore, I propose to reduce this amount by PLN 16 million, to create a new special reserve for the revalorization of Gniezno monuments. [[What kind of choices are there gonna be? They want to share the Mazowsze again? We're not gonna be shared.]] The year 2016 was recognized by the High House in the year of the anniversary of Poland's baptism, which is why I propose to accept this proposal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u693	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 209th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. For - 183, against - 236, withholdd 22. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. Let's move on to the 82nd amendment. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Mr Krzysztof Brejza, Civic Platform, joined the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u694	Mr. Marshal! But especially: Prime Minister! [[Voice from the room: Yes, we're listening.]] Yes, sir. The amendment concerns an increase in the appropriations taken by the PiS to the Constitutional Tribunal. We therefore support this amendment as a Platform. In justifying the amendment, when you took money from the tribunal, Mrs Krystyna Pawłowicz spoke. She stated that the tribunal had ceased to be a power in Poland, said obedience to the Constitution and to the Act. At the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance, the Member also stated, justifying the amendment of the PiS taking money from the Court, that the Constitutional Tribunal disregards the laws and says that it will not apply the laws. Can we finance the illegal activities of the Constitutional Tribunal? [[Of course.]] Mrs Pavłowicz also said that this is why she complements the PiS proposal. That's why I'm asking Prime Minister Beata Szydło, [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's why I'm gonna go...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u695	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u696	...consistently with its thesis before the European Parliament that the Constitutional Tribunal is proceding... [[Voice from the room: Question.]] [[That's it.]] [[Voice from the room: Time's up.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u697	Thank you very much, sir. We're coming...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u698	...on the basis of a good bill, she persuaded the PiS members to... [[Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki shuts down Mr Krzysztof Brejza's microphone, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u699	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 82 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. Za - 176, v. 262, 2 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. [[And what did the Prime Minister say?]] Let's move on to the 83rd amendment. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question was asked by Mr Michael Szczerba, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u700	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The government of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party began building senior policy in Poland, a policy to create conditions for decent and healthy ageing. We are very pleased that in this budget you have maintained our proposals, 40 million for the ASOS Social Activity Programme, 40 million for the creation of daily residence homes for seniors, but, Prime Minister, there is one more thing, namely on 11 September 2015. The Sejm, on the initiative of the Senior Policy Committee, passed a law on older people. President Duda signed it on 14 October. This law imposes new obligations on the Council of Ministers, monitoring the situation of older people and presenting a report on the situation of older people to the Sejm by 31 October. What's the problem? [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy lacks the resources for this.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u701	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u702	We propose a very symbolic amount - 250,000. zł on this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u703	Thank you very much, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 83, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. For - 176, against - 257, the 9. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 210th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 210th minority request would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. For - 177, against - 240, the 25. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We're moving on to the 211th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 211st minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. For - 177, against - 230, 27 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. Let's move on to the 84th amendment. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. [[Speak up!]] [[We vote in favour, we vote in favour.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Vote!]] Krystyna Skowrońska has spoken.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u704	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! The government's position on this matter indicated, the Minister said that there was no legal basis for transferring funds from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the Senate for the care of Polonia and Poles abroad. I would therefore like to ask what has changed since then and whether you will vote against the government's position. That's the first one. If a proper transfer or delegation of such tasks is to be prepared, this should be done from the beginning of the year in order to allow the recruitment of funds to be carried out. And in this respect there is a slight conflict between the Minister of Foreign Affairs, which today was a debate on foreign policy, and the Senate on the care of Poles and Poles. [[Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u705	Mr Michał Dworczyk with a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u706	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The purpose of this amendment is to restore funds to care for Polonia and Poles outside the country's borders to the Senate. [[It's about the legal basis.]] Until 2012, from the beginning of the Upper House, it was the Senate who took care of our fellow countrymen outside the country. Indeed, there were conflicting opinions on this issue, which is the legal basis for these measures, and as regards the agreement between the Government and the Senate, it was developed this year, unlike 2012, flawlessly. The whole transfer procedure has been prepared and there is no doubt about it. [[Applause]] [[What's the minister's position?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u707	Thank you very much. And we proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 84 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. For - 273, against - 152, 18 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are moving to the examination of the 212th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 212nd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. For - 172, against - 249, stopped 7. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We're going to consider 213 of the minority's request. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska joined the question. You're welcome. [[Sit down.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u708	Mr. Marshal! On the budget, Mr Neumann and Minister Shamacha were betting. I would like to make a bet with Minister Gowin today that he certainly forgot to write down these increases in funding for universities that train pilots. The funding was once related to the Rzeszow University of Technology, the University of Technology in Chełma and the Higher School of Officers of the Air Force in Dęblin. And the funding was provided in the amount of PLN 17 million. Poznan University of Technology has been here since 2016. So there are not enough resources, and in this respect I am convinced that the Minister has made a mistake, and if the Minister has not made a mistake, I would like to ask or ask, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why do you spend money on school in Toruń... [[Voice from the room: Time.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u709	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u710	...private, and the training of pilots at universities is short of money. At least fix it in the Senate. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u711	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 213rd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. For - 200, against - 233, 6 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. Let's move on to the 85th amendment. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Members joined the questions. Member Mieczysław Kasprzak, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u712	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Marshal Kuchciński! Dear Prime Minister, I have a question: Will the border crossing in Malhowice on the Ukrainian border be built? Because that's where all the conditions are now met. I therefore ask for the support of this amendment to Marshal Kuchciński. This is our business together. President Przemyśl took part in this case. I don't know if it's for you, Mr. Marshal, either, but he has spoken to me, I think, all Members. I would also ask Members from Podkarpacie to support this amendment, because this is a border crossing point. I think the marshal will confirm. Yes, Mr. Marshal? [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: No, it doesn't confirm.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u713	Thank you very much. Mr Wojciech Bakun, the Kukiz Club15, also asked the question. He's not here. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 85 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. For - 170, against - 237, the 25. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We're moving on to the 214th minority request. The question was asked by Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u714	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have good news and bad news for you. The good news is, we've got a final minority motion ahead of us. The bad news is that we've lost eight hours on these proposals and amendments... [[It's okay.]] ... 480 minutes and 28 800 seconds in an optimistic version. [[As part of a democracy.]] I'm afraid of what's gonna happen next year because the new opposition... [[Voice from the room: You shouldn't have reported it.]] ...it's just getting warmed up. [[Voice from the room: Minutes are lost.]] We considered Marshal Terletki to be the fastest marshal we've ever seen as an opposition. Congratulations. [[Voice from the room: Question.]] But we also have a motion for the Prime Minister to... [[Voice from the room: Get to the point.]] ...in fact, next year we will prepare the citizens' budget for Members and, on an amicable journey, give us our share of the budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u715	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 214th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. For - 169, against - 258, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. Let's move on to the 86th amendment. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 86 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. For - 43, against - 385, 5 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 87th amendment. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 87 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. For - 375, against - 59, the 9. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. Let's move on to the 88th amendment. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 88 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. For-- 21, against-- 404, holding off on 11. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Attention, attention.]] [[Voice from the room: Questions.]] The question was asked by Rafał Wójcikowski, Kukiz Club15. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u716	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We were hoping that, while voting on the amendments, we would teach you some saving and taking care of citizens' pockets, but unfortunately it did not work out, perhaps next year it would be better. In any event, the conclusion is that Kukiz15 cannot support this budget because it lacks elements of rational savings. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] [[Voice from the room: It was supposed to be the last time.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u717	Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, also spoke.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u718	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The last request of a minority. To sum up the budget: you give money for medicines for the elderly, which are enough for one pack of vitamin C, as we have calculated here, in a month. [[Voice from the Chamber: There is no debate now.]] You're putting in an expensive program that's supposed to be a cure for everything that's wrong. We've got vitamin C so far, we'll see what happens next. So far there are costs for Poles, which are the result of taxes implemented by you. It was supposed to be safe and stable, it's risky and quite shaky, especially on the stock market and the foreign exchange markets. [[So Poland in ruins, right?]] I have a question for the Prime Minister, because the Prime Minister said not so long ago that the budget not only has to be an ad hoc one-year document, but also has to have a certain perspective and look into the future. I have already asked the Prime Minister what happened, that the Prime Minister's strategy has changed, and today everyone asks us in our work on the budget, what will be next year or two. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And for that reason, we will not support this budget. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u719	Thank you, Member. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Platform Club, came forward to ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u720	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Firstly, we proposed to reduce the budget deficit due to the payment from the profit of the National Bank of Poland, which will be higher by PLN 5 billion. You didn't support this country. You did not support the programme of living for young people, increasing the funds by PLN 800 million. You're against the young. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Bravo.]] You did not support the proposal to increase the funding for medical rescue of PLN 100 million. You did not support the amendment concerning still the amount of PLN 55 million for in vitro treatment. [[Voice from the room: It's a scandal.]] [[Voice from the room: In vitro is not a treatment.]] You are in favour of the transfer and you will be looking for money for Fr.Rydzyk's university, that is what you have announced. But we're in favour of rationally talking... [[We support life. You're dead.]] ...if there's money, it's to reduce the deficit, and we've been asking you to give to those you didn't give raises to. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voices from the room: 8 years! Eight years!]] You once promised 3 million and didn't do it. They'll settle you in a year. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u721	We proceed with the vote on... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Please, Mr Andrzej Jaworski, rapporteur for the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u722	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Before the vote, I would like to remind you that the Committee on Public Finance has worked on this budget for a very long time and has given its opinion to adopt this budget. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[What does the committee now have to do with this at third reading?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u723	We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Oh, and Minister Paweł Shalamach. You're welcome. [[Voice from the room: No.]] You're welcome, Minister. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Voice from the Chamber: After the vote.]] [[And the vote?]] [[Mr. Marshal, we've already pressed the buttons.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: We vote.]] You're welcome, Minister of Finance. [[You've regained the minister's voice.]] [[Shut up.]] [[Voice from the room: We voted.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u724	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Commissioner, for your kindness, I have regained my voice. [[You should have answered the questions.]] [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] A few comments, some explanatory statements. [[Voice from the room: What about the questions?]] The government did not address all the questions concerning the so-called. sacred cows by nature. This is not nature, and it would be a violation of certain principles, because the decision on the budgets of the Ombudsman, the Constitutional Tribunal, is the responsibility of the House. [[Voice from the room: Sure.]] [[Those are sacred cows? The finance minister uses that vocabulary?]] Those of you who are for the first time may be surprised, the main opposition club is not surprising, because all Members should know that there are dozens of institutions in the country... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[The lady sits down and doesn't bother you.]] ...who have the privilege of putting their budgets directly into the state budget. The budgets of all other departments are subject to the rubbish of this democratic policy within the ministries and the government. [[That's what we know, Minister.]] Therefore, we did not answer all these questions concerning the Ombudsman, the Constitutional Tribunal. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: You didn't answer any of them.]] [[Voice from the room: NBP.]] However, there are still a few points to be clarified. Of course, this budget in its core is based on the document, the state of the finances we found. I don't think that surprises anyone. The fully authored budget of the Government of Law and Justice will be the budget presented this autumn... [[You guys did some work.]] [[It's gonna be a drama.]] ...and will be able to fully implement our priorities. But let us agree that the time from the Government's formulation: from mid-November to the end of budgetary work, does not allow for a complete reorientation of the state. I believe that the majority of the opposition is convinced that our budget is a realistic budget, and you know it. [[Yes, sir.]] While in November very alarming opinions were presented to the public about the financial meltdown of the Polish state, that disaster was coming, after the next few weeks you started to talk about the disaster, of course, but it will be in 2017. Why? Because we've built a budget so that we can implement our basic, priority family program, while keeping what's worth... [[No, it's not. For every child.]] ...a budget safe from the point of view of public finances. [[Yeah, $55 billion in debt. Yeah, sure. Safe budget.]] Of course, there were nervous moments for the government, for me personally one and a half weeks ago, when the decision of one of the credit rating agencies came in, which was followed by an intense political dispute in our country. [[What's the deficit, Minister?]] This agency has decided to lower the credit rating of Poland... [[It's just beginnings.]] ...she decided she didn't like Polish politics. [[Your politics.]] [[It's not polish, it's piss policy.]] I was a member of the previous term of office when the election of five judges of the tribunal was made in reserve. I have an opinion on this. [[But what kind of stories are these at an hour? 1.30?]] I didn't make it public, of course. The costs of this scheme from the summer and autumn of the previous year are somewhat borne. It was you who created this situation. Perhaps a lesson to the opposition, not to take... [[But what does that have to do with the budget?]] ...this type of action in the future is that today, politically speaking, you are not the beneficiary of this situation. The beneficiary shall be the second party. Even though the plot was made with the hands of the Platform... [[This is amateurism, Minister.]] [[What's that even?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u725	Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down. ...it's politically making use of it today Modern. [[You keep an eye on the budget.]] As regards these basic issues of income, both the quota deficit and the percentage deficit, as the President said at first reading... [[Cut the fuss.]] ...there was an honorary wager between Mr Neumann and I on these basic criteria. He's obviously sustained. I'm convinced, and I think you already know how this is going to end in a dozen months. [[Voice from the room: Ooh!]] Both in quota and percentage terms, the assumed deficit of 2,8%, 54 billion will not be exceeded. [[Revenue, income.]] Budget revenue will be fully realised and Poland... [[Don't whine anymore.]] ...comes in with a dry leg in 2017. [[Voice from the room: Thank you very much.]] We also agree - I have admitted this publicly here - that the fundamental challenge that is... [[Dude, let me vote.]] ...rebuilding the tax revenues of the Polish state, is still ahead of us... [[Thank you.]] ...and we'll do it. We will meet in November this year when Mr Neumann... [[We'll live, we'll see.]] ...will already know what the consequences of his unwise language are. [[What deficit?]] Deficit, like I said, 2.8% domestic product, not more than PLN 54 billion. Thank you. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. [[In corrigendum mode.]] [[Mr. Marshal, I'm gonna...]] No, no, you weren't mentioned. Member, please leave the stand. There's no way. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] No, you weren't mentioned. I'm so sorry. [[How can you not?]] We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. [[Voice from the room: Formal conclusion.]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 194, along with the amendments adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 236 voted against - 207, with three abstentions. The Sejm passed the 2016 Budget Act. [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice and members of the Council of Ministers stand up, long-term applause]] The adoption of certain amendments will result in appropriate amendments to other provisions and annexes to the Act. Mr Neumann with a formal request.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u726	Yes, Mr. Marshal, with a formal request to order a moment's break so I can explain to the Minister, first of all, that this honorary facility was about the tax revenue that you overestimated, and in a few months' time, You'll actually be able to evaluate... [[He's already denying it.]] ...but, Minister, to tell the truth here as well.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u727	But, sir, this is not a formal proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u728	The agency you've been calling for that she's downgraded her credit rating due to political action... [[Mr. Marshal, they're specially prolonging.]] This is true because you are ruining Poland's economic credibility, legal credibility of Poland and the credibility of Poland as a country. [[Applause]] But that's nothing, because two more agencies, Minister - you didn't mention it - give us a negative recommendation for the future, didn't lower the rating. But for what? [[Don't freak out on us.]] For the budget deficit, for the risk of overshooting the budget deficit. And Fitch, and Moodys are talking about it. [[Voice from the room: You did it.]] These are two more agencies that say that the rating of Poland can be lowered. You're ruining the political image of Poland, ruining the economy. You don't get it, I know it, you don't understand the economy. [[You're the best.]] It is a pity that the Minister does not understand this because he is responsible for Polish finances. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u729	Mr, where is the formal proposal? Thank you very much. [[Formal conclusion, Mr. Marshal.]] No, ma'am. We proceed to item 3 of the agenda... [[Mr. Marshal, I've asked you for a formal motion.]] But, Madame, you abuse the formula of the formal proposal. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[I have a formal motion.]] [[She hasn't abused it yet.]] But you're overreacting because we have another one. Mr President has just abused the formal proposal. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[But I have...]] Okay, but let's make it a formal conclusion. [[Voice from the Chamber: No debate, debate is over.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u730	Dear Marshal, With a formal request that you call to order the finance minister in this courtroom... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u731	But it's not a formal conclusion, ma'am. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: First reading of the civil draft law on the amendment of the law on national and ethnic minorities and on regional language, as well as some other laws (print No 27) - continuation. [[More culture, Marshal!]] [[Voice from the room: Learn the rules!]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] The proposal to reject the draft law at first reading was withdrawn in the discussion. [[Mr. Marshal, formal motion. I didn't finish the performance...]] But you haven't filed a formal application. [[Voice from the room: She didn't make it.]] You haven't filed a formal application. I'm so sorry, ma'am, unfortunately. After consulting the Sejm Bureau, I propose... [[But your marshal turned off the microphone.]] ...for the Sejm to refer this draft law, contained in print No 27, to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and to the Committee on National and Ethnic Minorities for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. [[Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, ……]] I hear an objection. [[Voice from the hall: Krysia, speak!]] [[May I?]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u732	Thank you very much...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u733	Once again with a formal motion.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u734	...for acting like an English gentleman. Thank you very much. So I'd like to...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u735	But I ask you to make a formal request, Madame.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u736	We behave differently in this room. But I would really ask you to be serious. The Constitutional Minister of other important, primate authorities of the State, who plan their own budgets, cannot express itself in this way. That's one thing. Second... [[Voice from the Chamber: Formal proposal, Member.]] By the time I'm done, I've got two minutes, I've got one more minute and 38 seconds. [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u737	Member, where is the formal proposal? Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u738	And if you were Minister Shamacha... [[Voice from the room: This is not a formal conclusion!]] ...he was also as honorable as your marshal, I assume... [[Get off that podium!]] [[Voice from the room: No way.]] ...he would have taken that bet when he reduced by 5 billion...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u739	Madam, for the second time, Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u740	...deficit of the National Bank of Poland's repayment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u741	...he's using the formal application formula. [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice hit desktops]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u742	It's a man's honor. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u743	Thank you. There's no objection, I hear you. It's a mistake in the O.R. [[Voice from the room: There is opposition!]] Is there an objection? There's an objection. Isn't there? [[Voice from the room: There it is!]] There's an objection. Referral of the bill to committee, that is the proposal and we will vote on it. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the proposal will want to raise your hand and press the button. [[Voice from the Chamber: But what are we voting on?]] A motion for referral to the committee. [[Voice from the room: But what?]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the Chamber: How do we vote?]] What, is there a misunderstanding? [[But I was supposed to speak, Marshal.]] The bill's been... 424 Members voted. For - 249, against - 51, the 124 stopped. [[Thank you.]] The Sejm referred the motion to the committee. [[Mr. Marshal, I was asked to ask you a question.]] But I didn't get that information. [[It's gone.]] [[Voice from the O.R.: There's no reconnaissance.]] We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on National Defence on the draft law amending the Law on the Military Service of Professional Soldiers (Prints 171, 206 and 206-A) - third reading. I ask Mr Michael Jacha to present an additional report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u744	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! The National Defence Commission held its meeting on 28 January this year. and recommends rejecting the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u745	Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft law on printing No 206. The Commission also presents an amendment on which we will vote first. In the amendment, applicants propose, inter alia, keep the sound so far... [[Louder, Marshal!]] ...pt. Article 3 31. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[From now on, all the votes at night. We have a chance.]] 443 Members voted. For - 143, against - 271, holding off on 29. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. [[But at what point are we?]] Paweł Suski, Civic Platform, joined the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u746	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! If you want to enslave someone, give them everything. This is the motto that illustrates your actions. [[Motto, gross, net.]] With public money, you buy yourself the favour of another professional group: private, senior private corps of the Armed Forces.... [[Voice from the room: Very good.]] ...withduring the 12-year period of the contract service they must perform today. [[But they're asking for it.]] In their current state of law, they also have the possibility, but they only need to advance to the degree of corporal. Is that so much? Does Law and Justice value so little to the soldiers of the army corps of the Armed Forces... [[We're highly valued right now.]] ... The Republic of Poland? Can you imagine an aging army in this corps? I can't imagine people going to fight. [[♪ The bell ♪]] 55,59-year-olds, seniors... [[Voice from the room: Time!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u747	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u748	Probably the seniors. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Mr. Marshal, may I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u749	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u750	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! This applies to soldiers who are trained in battles. It is a flower of the Polish army. Ladies and gentlemen, for 8 years you have been ruining the Polish army, for 8 years you have not dealt with this burning problem. Our country cannot afford to get rid of these soldiers from the Polish army. If you believe that these soldiers will pass after reaching 15 years of retirement, then, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, they will receive 40%. Preferences. [[Voice from the Chamber: After 12 years he will remain a private - why such service?]] Private in the Polish army earns 3.5 thousand. Gross. He will then receive only PLN 10001100 per hand after leaving after 15 years. Who's gonna live on that salary? Who's gonna live on that salary? [[Report a motion to shoot Suski.]] A young 30-year-old man? You're forcing them to go to a security agency... [[Voice from the room: to get promoted.]] ..for $3.5 an hour? Shame on you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u751	We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 206, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. For - 273, against - 165, with a hold of 7. The Sejm passed a law amending the law on military service to professional soldiers. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the Government's draft law on the re-use of public sector information (prints 141 and 199) - third reading. [[It's not the agenda. It's the night.]] The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 199. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern, and Mr... [[Voice from the room: There isn't one!]] You're asking the question. [[Report first.]] The man with the question. And the Member? There are no corrections. [[Rapporteur.]] [[Speaking from the room: He can speak.]] [[Voice from the room: No.]] He can take it. Please, let's let the first rapporteur go. [[Who's Versailles? In eight, two...]] Mr. George Polakzek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u752	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! As rapporteur for the draft law on the re-use of public sector information, I think it is worth to present some information to the High House in the late hours. First of all, I'd like to... [[Voices from the room: No, no.]] In two sentences, I would like to stress that this bill is a qualitative change in access to information and has a very positive impact on entrepreneurs, who will be the main beneficiaries of public sector information, particularly in the creative and cultural sectors. This law also extends access to sector information and standardizes the general principles of re-use. On this occasion, I would like to highlight very substantive work during the legislative work and, Prime Minister, I would also like to personally highlight here the very good cooperation of the Ministry of Digitisation with the Ministry of the Environment. Thanks to this law, after 20 years of efforts, public opinion, citizens, local governments and institutions gain, among others. free access to meteorological data, information... [[But we know that, sir, the question.]] [[That's all we know.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u753	Mr President, for the time being, please cut back. Everything's on my side. Thank you very much. Are you asking a question? Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u754	Despite the late season, however, I will allow myself two words in the form of a question. I wanted to ask if the government would agree with me that this project is going through quite without an echo, but it should be very exciting among all of us. Not all of you were present during the proceedings of the committee or during the proceedings of the High House. With this project, we are opening up a comprehensive database of the public sector for our creative citizens and companies. There's weather data, geodata, statistics, library resources, museums, archives. Our creative industry will be able to use this data to aggregate, process, combine and offer completely new services and products. In fact, we are creating, ladies and gentlemen, such a new sector of the economy. He is estimated to be around 2% in the European Union GDP, and knowing our citizens and entrepreneurs, we can be sure that this law will produce fruit quickly. Therefore, the Modern will be happy to support this project.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u755	Thank you very much, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print no. 199 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. For -432, against -2, no one stopped. The Sejm passed a law on the re-use of public sector information. We proceed to the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Second reading of the Commission's draft resolution on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in July-December 2015 ( Luxembourg presidency in the Council of the European Union) (Print No 196) - vote. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 196. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print no. 196 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. For -422, against -11, 3 stopped. The Sejm adopted a resolution on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in July-December 2015 (the Luxembourg Presidency of the Council of the European Union). We proceed with the examination of item 12. of the agenda: First reading of the civil draft law on the amendment of the law on the education system (print No 48) - continuation. The proposal to reject the draft law at first reading was withdrawn in the discussion. After consulting the Sejm Bureau, I propose that the Sejm refer this draft law, contained in print No 48, to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. [[Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, ……]] I will therefore put this proposal to the vote. We're going to vote on the referral... [[Then I'll do it now.]] You're welcome, Mrs Machalek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u756	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I'm in a few sentences. The citizens' project, which is likely to go to committee at the moment, is a project that we absolutely disagree with. [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: Why the committee?]] It concerns the withdrawal of funding for religious lessons at school. Since this is a citizens' project, we want to be consistent, so we will refrain from rejecting this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u757	Thank you very much, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of sending this project to committee, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. For - 147, against - 37, 249 Members abstained. The project was addressed to the committee. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: Report of the Rules of Procedure and the Postsmen's Affairs on the request of the Chief Police Commissioner of 17 November 2015 to allow the Sejm to hold Mr Jacek Żłęk to criminal liability (print No 188) - a vote. [[I'm the one paying the tickets, and you're not paying?]] On the basis of the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland may be held liable by a Member with the consent of the Sejm. [[I'm paying the tickets. How about you?]] [[You need to know what you're talking about.]] I remind you that the Committee on Rules of Procedure and Parliamentary Affairs is based on Article. 7c paragraph. The 5th Act on the implementation of the mandate of the Member and the Senator proposes that the Sejm reject the request for consent to the criminal liability of Mr Jacek Żalk. On the basis of the article. 7c paragraph. 6 The Act on the implementation of the mandate of the Member and Senator of the Sejm agrees that the Member should be held liable by means of a resolution adopted by an absolute majority of the statutory number of Members. We will vote on the request for consent to the criminal liability of Mr Jacek Żalek. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the request by the Chief Police Commissioner of 17 November 2015 to consent to the criminal liability of Mr Jacek Żłko for the act set out in this request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. The absolute majority is 231. 127 voted against - 268, with 47 abstentions. The Sejm, against the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes, adopted a resolution on the non-approval of the criminal liability of Mr Jacek Żalka for the act specified in the request of the Chief Police Commissioner of 17 November 2015. We proceed with the consideration of item 2 of the agenda: Appointment of members of the Monetary Policy Council (prints 151 and 172). On 20 January 2016, the term of office of two members of the Monetary Policy Council expired: Mr Andrzej Stanisław Bratkowski and Ms Elżbieta Irena Chojny-Guch. Therefore, in accordance with Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 5 Constitution of the Republic of Poland and Art. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point 2 of the Act on the National Bank of Poland, the Sejm will appoint new members of the Monetary Policy Council. The list of candidates for members of the Monetary Policy Council has been delivered to ladies and gentlemen in print No 151. Please take the floor of Mr Andrzej Jaworski to present the nominations of Ms Grażyna Maria Ancyparowicz and Mr Eryk Mariusz Lon submitted by a group of Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u758	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to present the candidates submitted by the Law and Justice Club. Grażyna Maria Ancyparowicz - PhD in economic sciences, Extraordinary Professor of the Upper Silesian School of Economics. Wojciech Korfanty in Katowice, author of many publications in the field of banking, public finance, awarded with the Silver and Golden Cross of Merit, awarded with the Rector of the Academy of Special Pedagogics for scientific publications. Mr Eryk Mariusz Lon - PhD in economic sciences, Extraordinary Professor of the University of Economics in Poznań, author of many publications in the field of capital market, banking and financial law. Since 2015 he has been an extraordinary professor at the Department of Public Finance at the University of Economics in Poznań. He is the inventor and head of the post-graduate study of the Masters of the financial markets. Prof. Eryk Lon is a member of the National Development Council at the President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Duda. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[President of the session includes Marshal Marek Kuchciński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u759	Thank you, sir. I would like to ask the floor of Katarzyna Lubnauer in order to present the candidacy of Mr Stanisław Gomolka submitted by the group of Members of the Posel Club of Modern and the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u760	Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of two clubs, one parliamentary and one parliamentary, Modern and PSL, I have the honour to present Professor Stanisław Gomulka as a candidate for the Monetary Policy Council. Mr Stanisław Gomulka is a well-known person, and therefore I would like to briefly present his figure. Professor Gomulka graduated from physics at the University of Warsaw in 1962, but already four years later he defended his PhD in economics with Prof. Michał Kalecki. In 1970 he started working at the London School of Economics, where he taught until 2005. At that time he was also a consultant of the International Monetary Fund, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, the International Monetary Fund and the European Commission, as well as a lecturer at many universities - in Denmark, the Netherlands and the United States. In September 1989 he returned to Poland to advise the new government in carrying out the so-called. systemic and economic transformation. Between 1989 and 1995 he was also an official Polish negotiator with the International Monetary Fund on all macroeconomic programmes. Until 2002, he advised the next finance ministers and the head of the National Bank of Poland. Professor Stanisław Gomulka has been the chief economist of the Polish PZU Group since 2002 and is currently the chief economist of the Business Centre Club. Most of his research and teaching activities include areas of economic growth, macroeconomics, the economics of the transition period and comparative economic systems. Prof. Gomulka's activity in the organizational field also deserves recognition. He was a member of many scientific organizations and associations. He sat down, among others. in the Scientific Council of the Institute of Public Affairs, the European Integration Council at the President of the Council of Ministers, the Scientific Council of CASE and the Scientific Council of the Institute of Economic Sciences of the Polish Academy of Sciences. This is undoubtedly a great candidacy for the Monetary Policy Council. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u761	Thank you, Member. I ask that Mrs Izabela Leszczyna speak in order to present the candidacy of Mr Caesar Wojcik presented by the Group of Members of the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u762	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I have the honour to present the candidacy of Professor Cezary Wójcik - Professor of the Warsaw School of Commerce, researcher at Harvard, Berkeley, Melbourne, Glasgow and many others, the winner of the two most important awards awarded to economists in Poland: the Bank of Commerce Awards and the President of the Council of Ministers' Awards. The professor was the only Pole who worked in three central banks: the National Bank of Poland, the National Bank of Austria and the European Central Bank. He was an advisor to the Minister of Finance in the Government of Law and Justice, as well as a adviser to the President [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] The National Bank of Poland sleeps. Famous violinist. The professor is the author of many publications and maybe it is important that in the study for the 2001-2006 period he was ranked first among the most quoted Polish economists in scientific journals in the world and is classified in the world's largest electronic repository in the first 5% global scientists in the field of social sciences. Professor Cezary Wójcik was one of the youngest economics professors. We are convinced that his candidacy is a very good candidate and that his presence in the Monetary Policy Council is a guarantee of stability and added value in this extremely important constitutional body. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u763	And thank you, Member. At the moment, I would like to ask the floor of Mr Wiesław Janczyk in order to present the opinion of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u764	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! On 12 January, the Finance Committee examined proposals for the selection of candidates for the members of the Monetary Policy Council, held a discussion, and during the discussion the candidates spoke about a number of mechanisms and principles of impact through monetary policy for growth and those generating this growth, pace and quality. The Commission shall give a positive opinion on the role of member of the Monetary Policy Council in relation to the nominations submitted and discussed previously by Members of representatives of the various parliamentary clubs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u765	Thank you, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to take the floor on the applications submitted? No one's checking in. According to Art. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall elect the members of the Monetary Policy Council by an absolute majority. I propose that the Sejm hold a separate vote on this matter for each nomination. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Four candidates were nominated for two members of the Monetary Policy Council. In view of the submission of more candidates than there are posts, I propose that each candidate be voted in alphabetical order, in accordance with the principle that those candidates who receive an absolute majority in turn will be elected. After an absolute majority has been obtained by the other person - and thus after all the positions of members of the Monetary Policy Council - no vote on the other candidates will be held. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the vote on Mrs Grażyna Maria Anciparovich's candidacy by Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the appointment of Mrs Grażyna Maria Ancyparowicz as a member of the Monetary Policy Council would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. The absolute majority is 214. The vote was cast by 230 Members against 191 and five Members abstained. I state that by an absolute majority the Sejm appointed Mrs Grażyna Maria Ancyparowicz as a member of the Monetary Policy Council. [[Applause]] We proceed to the vote on the candidacy of Mr Stanisław Gomulak, submitted by Members of the Modern Posel Club and the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the appointment of Mr Stanisław Gomula as a member of the Monetary Policy Council would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. The absolute majority is 217. 165 Members voted against, 263 Members voted against, 4 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm did not appoint Mr Stanisław Gomula as a member of the Monetary Policy Council in the absence of an absolute majority of votes. We are voting on Mr Mariusz Lon's candidacy by Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the appointment of Mr Eric Mariusz Lon as a member of the Monetary Policy Council would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. The absolute majority is 217. Two Members abstained from the vote: 268 Members against 163. I state that by an absolute majority, the Sejm has appointed Mr Eric Mariusz Lon as a member of the Monetary Policy Council. [[Applause]] The result of the vote means that the Sejm has chosen two members of the Monetary Policy Council and has therefore filled two vacant posts. He therefore concluded his vote on the matter. On this we exhausted the agenda of the 10th meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. [[Night!]] I would like to inform you that you have come forward to make a statement. Would any of you or your fellow Members like to speak? If you don't, I'll have... I'm declaring a 30-second recess. [[Wait a minute.]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]] Mr Stefan Romecki made a statement. You may make a statement. Mr President, it is so late.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u766	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo!....
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u767	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u768	For a very long time there were no conditions in the Polish Sejm to express respect and appreciation for these contemporary Poles who deserved their selfless work by the Republic of Poland, without any state and political functions...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u769	Mr President, I'm interrupting for a moment, just for a second.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u770	...staying out of the loop...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u771	Can you hold on a second? I'll ask Mr Jack Kurzepa, Jack the World, New Year's Eve here... [[Tulayeva.]] ... Toulayeva, I apologize, and Eve Kozanecka for making written statements. You're welcome. Proceed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u772	...without performing any state, political functions, remaining outside the political circle of party politics in Poland. Only the entrance to the Sejm of social movement, such as Kukiz,15, offers the opportunity to honor these people. Professor Jerzy Przystwa - because I want to worship and praise him today - earlier than anyone else noticed the main cause of weakness and failure of the Polish state, the fundamental systemic defect, which is the electoral ordination of the so-called. proportional. It gives all political power to narrow oligarchic party groups, instead of citizens, deprives Poles of political subjectivity and electoral rights, in particular passive electoral rights. When he died in November 2012, it was written that a great Pole, a giant man, a national hero of a difficult era, a charismatic leader and undisputed authority had left. This was, in fact, Prof. Jerzy Przystawa, a man of great intelligence, erudition, knowledge, charisma and deep sensitivity, scientist, physicist, humanist, educator, unheard of organizer, great speaker and retort, perfectly possessing the pen of the publicist and columnist, tireless fighter for the change of electoral order, hot spokesman for one-mandate electoral districts, (JOW) creator of the movement for the JOWs, organizer of hundreds of meetings and conferences, panels, trainings, educational camps, author of several books, as well as hundreds of articles and felietons on the electoral system. His actions contributed to raising the awareness of Poles, especially young people, who were tried to convince that the Polish party system was democratic normality. By showing that it is far from democratic standards, it enabled many Poles to regain hope and restore faith in democracy. He led other people along with him, impressively with righteousness, faithfulness to beliefs, generosity, sacrifice, selflessness. He often paid a high price for his attitude - a conspiracy and political prison. For 14 years he was dragged to court for revealing the mechanisms of the FOZZ scandal. However, when someone complained about inconvenience or harassment in his presence, he replied that he had never expected payment or even gratitude from his homeland. He reminded me of how many Poles lost their lives in a selfless struggle for freedom. He was a great patriot, but his patriotism was not loud, for show, but he was a reasonable concern for the common good - more engaging in reason than emotions, manifested in reasonable actions, not only in beautiful words or exalted gestures. High Izbo! We feel like heirs to Professor Jerzy Attribution. As he feels responsible for Poland and future generations of Poles. Let's remember Professor George's Attitude as a great Pole and a great man. I thank God for having put my husband of state and one of the most outstanding Poles of the present day in the way of my life. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u773	Thank you very much. Mr Jacek World. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u774	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On Thursday, we said goodbye to Tomasz Rawic, one of the legends of Wroclaw and Poland's Solidarity Cemetery in Wroclaw. Tomasz Rawowiec was born in 1949 in Łódź. Graduated from the company school in Łask, with specialty of the mechanic driver. For 2 years he worked as a driver of MPK in Łódź, and from 1976 until his retirement he was a driver of MPK in Wrocław, with a short break for work on the management board of "Solidarity." In August 1980 he was one of the initiators of the strike in the 7th depot in Wrocław. It was the bus he was running that blocked this outpost, which became a signal to start a strike all over the city. Later, the raw material worked on the Board of Solidarity. He was a treasurer of the MKZ-et and co-founder of the independent writing of the MKZ-et. He was, of course, a delegate to the congress of the Lower Silesia region and to the national congress of the Solidarity region. He was a full-time employee of the region's board of directors. A few days before the declaration of martial law he was a participant in the memorable withdrawal from the bank of PLN 80 million, money from which later the underground activity of "Solidarity" was financed - a story well known from the film "80 million." With his colleagues, the leaders of the Lower Silesian Solidarity, he organized a strike at the MPK after the declaration of martial law, as well as a strike in Pafawag. He had to stay hidden for a while. During the entire period after his martial law he engaged in underground activities, he published a letter by MPK.Świt., he participated in many demonstrations in the defense of political prisoners. He was very intensive in helping those who were subjected to various repressions. In fact, Sam was repeatedly detained, interrogated by the militia, SB. In 1988 he was again involved in MPK strikes in Wrocław. Since 1990, he has been President of the Solidarity Group in MPK Wrocław. Tomasz Rawicz and I met again at the beginning of the two thousand years when he was head of the MPK in Wrocław. My sleep. My wife was an economic director at the time. It seemed that the conflict between these people - performing such different functions - was inevitable, while Tomasz Surowiec was an exceptionally open man, ready to discuss, to seek compromises and at the same time to defend workers' interests. And even when he retired, with his own experience, he continued to serve his fellow trade unions, drivers. We met many times during anniversary celebrations, patriotic celebrations. I remember him as a very family man, very warm, naturally instinctively trusting. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u775	Thank you very much, sir. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Oh, it's you. With a statement? [[Yes, very short.]] For the protocol, you have written it. [[But I only have a position... very briefly, out of my mind.]] One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u776	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In recent days, a report has appeared in the Business Pulse, that the heat energy centre in Lublin is to be privatized, that the shares are to be sold. In this case, as Law and Justice, we have spoken several times, for a long time. We defend this company, we defend the city's property 100%. We will not allow any share of this company to be sold. As former city councilman of Lublin - for 9 years I served this function - and today as a parliamentarians of Lublin land I would like to remind the president of the city of Lublin Krzysztof Żuk from the Civic Platform, which was taken by the High Council exactly a year ago, on 29 January 2015. Then, as councillors, we took a very short position that was supported by the inhabitants. Almost 2,000. The inhabitants of our city, Lublin, signed this position. There wasn't much action, but this position was important to the locals. The Lublin City Council, taking this position, noted that it obliges the President of Lublin to keep 100% ownership of the Municipality of Lublin in Lubelski Przedsiębiorstwo Energetyki Cieplnej SA, in Miejski Przedsiębiorstwo Wodolawów i Kanalizacji sp. z o.o. and Municipal Communication Company sp. z o.o. and not to take action to privatise these companies. I would like to remind President Krzysztof Żuk once again to recall this position and not to take any action in Lublin to privatize these biggest gems in our city. Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u777	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ewa Kozanecka. Do you have it in writing? Can you fold it? [[Can I make a statement?]] Mr Patryk Jak. You're welcome. [[Can I read it?]] Put it together. It's late. You're folding. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u778	Dear Marshal, High Seym! I would like to return to the discussion about the prosecution for a moment, because I had no opportunity to finish my speech and, therefore, to explain the context and the true intention of what was on the stand. Therefore, I would like to stress, High Sejm, that my intention was not to present Mr Robert Kropiwnicki as the person who runs the agency. If anybody understood that, I am very sorry that yesterday I gave information that was inconclusive to the personal interests and honor of Mr Robert Kropiwnicki. That's why from where I made this statement, I'm sorry. However, my true intention, High Sejm, was to present the matter of the letter of the people of Legnica, not as some media have said - an anonymous letter. No. Ten specific names of residents who say that in the apartment, this apartment can run its activities as a social agency. In this context, the failure of the prosecutor's office to act or to ignore the voice of the residents, in my opinion, is a very important element in the discussion that took place in the Sejm. In my view, a politician cannot stand above the law, Your Sejm, the prosecution must not underestimate the voice of an ordinary citizen when it comes to such important matters. The so-called "inexplicability" of this case. The independent prosecution proves that it was neither professional nor apolitical. Ten signatures of specific residents - not anonymous - is the moment when it is worth explaining this matter absolutely. And someone can either say or notice that this case is ignored. There you go. Excuse me, my neighbors don't say there's a social agency in my apartment. This is not a standard matter, which is why it needs to be clarified. If the authorities of the state do not explain such matters, in my view, that is a very good reason to reform and change the prosecution. These were the most important elements of this discussion, which unfortunately could not fall during this discussion. Once again, I would stress that a public person, a politician, cannot stand above the law, should be treated just as much as an ordinary citizen. All cases by state institutions should be treated equally. That was the true intention of the statement. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u779	Thank you very much. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u780	Statement on the 95th anniversary of Krzysztof Kamil Baczyński's birth. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! January 22nd this year We celebrated the 95th anniversary of the birth of Krzysztof Kamil Baczyński, the most outstanding Polish poet of the war period, soldier of the Home Army, participant of the Warsaw Uprising. Krzysztof Kamil Baczyński was born on 22 January 1921 in Warsaw. At the age of 10, he started his studies at the State Secondary School. Stefan Batorego, then educated in a 2 year high school in a class with a humanistic profile. Already during middle school, young Baczyński had great knowledge about literature, and his great passion was also drawing. It belonged to 23. Warszawska Szczecinska Szczecinska (Warsaw Scouting Team). In 1939, he passed the maturity test. Plans to study at the Warsaw Academy of Fine Arts stopped the outbreak of war. His father's death in July of the same year was also a great shock to him. After the start of the war, Krzysztof Kamil Baczyński worked on many part-time activities: glassed windows, painted signs or took telephone orders in sanitary facilities. He also took Polish studies at the secret University of Warsaw. He met his later wife Barbara Srapczyńska there. Polishism, however, was abandoned to devote himself to activities in conspiracy, and also to writing poems. Since July 1943, Krzysztof Kamil Baczyński has served as a sectional in the 2nd platoon of Alek. In April of the following year, he took part in the derailment of the German train on the section Fat - Urle, which caused a daily break in traffic. After completing the tournament of the Infantry Reserve School, Agricola received the rank of senior shooter of the infantry reserve. Soon after that, Baczyński went to the Scout Battalion of Parasol, including the position of deputy commander of platoon III of the 3rd company. It should be noted that with great commitment he was involved in the armed actions carried out, although his surroundings did not want to allow him to do so, fearing the loss of a highly gifted poet. However, he did not agree to special, reduced treatment. Krzysztof Kamil Baczyński died on the fourth day of the Warsaw Uprising. He died at the station in Blank's Palace deadly wounded by a sharpshooter probably located in the building of the Great Theatre. Baczyński was originally buried in the back of the Blanka palace, after the war his body was transferred to the Military Cemetery in Powązki in Warsaw. Krzysztof Kamil Baczyński is considered the most outstanding creator of the war generation. The experience of war has greatly influenced his poetry. The poems of Baczyński are an expression of the occupation tragedy of his generation. The references to the romantic tradition are visible, and the content contained in them also forms part of the course of catastrophe. His lyrics are characterized by a strong metaphorized language and numerous symbols, so despite being imprisoned in the war reality, their pronunciation remains ambiguous. The poet, being aware of the constant threat of life, wrote a great deal. His work is over 500 poems. One of the most famous are Elegia o... [Polish boy], Generation, Mazowsze, When I take the gun out of my hand... Or I'll open the sky of gold to you... Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u781	On 20 January 1920 the royal Bydgoszcz returned to Poland. It's 96 this year. the anniversary of the return of this city to the matrix. Knowing the history of Bydgoszcz, we know how difficult and changing times the city of Bydgoszcz has experienced throughout history, especially in recent centuries. Dividing the fate of the whole country, she was still suffering additional hardships, misfortunes, underappreciation and loneliness. The more respect, memory and gratitude are due to these generations of Bydgoszczans, who loyal to Poland, values, national and regional traditions without hesitation devoted their lives, health, wealth and all their forces. I would like to draw attention to the pronunciation of one thread related to the history of the city of Bydgoszcz after returning to its mother in 1920. Bydgoszcz in the interwar period, greater than Katowice and Lublin, remained only the county city, the largest in Poland. It is therefore important to see, appreciate and learn from the fact that the underrated, administratively pushed citizens of Bydgoszcz were able to find a way to make an impressive development of the economy, trade, culture, education and sport. The difficult process of recolonization of the city was carried out quickly and efficiently. In a short time, the city became Pomerania's largest economic centre. Recalling the historic return of Bydgoszcz to the matrix, in attitudes and actions of its inhabitants, let us seek inspiration for ourselves today. From the experience of previous generations of Bydgoszczian it is really worth to draw knowledge and patterns to follow. On the occasion of this beautiful anniversary, it is worth wishing all the residents and sympathizers of our city - let Bydgoszcz develop quickly and comprehensively regardless of ad hoc circumstances. Thanks also to creativity, mobility, diligence and the ability of all its inhabitants to work together for our beloved city.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u782	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Poles are confused about what is happening here, what is happening to the budget bill. It has been voted out by us, Members of Law and Justice, often with regret and feeling that after our return home, many of you will accuse us of treasonous local interests. But before you throw painful and unwarranted invectives at us, you will whip us with unfavorable comments, consider the source of your emotions to be disappointed, and, after all, overstretched hopes, which effectively pumped up the campaign strategy of our opponents last year. After all, they, like Poland long and wide, generous words and without any responsibility for the word promised you everything you wanted to hear. It is not that they were the only ones acting cynically, but also the voters with an astonishingly iron consequence for a long eight years were deceived by promises rather than account for the concrete. In the autumn they promised, with two variants: we will win, we will delay again, we will encourage - somehow it will be, and if we lose - they will, PiS-iori will have a nice pâté. So? There's pate, but we don't have it, we have communities that have been deceived. Today, many of them are creating protest initiatives - blocking roads, bridges, highways. All the trouble resulting from this: annoyance, traffic, interpersonal tensions will take place among you. Those who wrote this script during the fall election campaign are covering their hands! They are obstructing the proceedings of the Seym. At the same time, with a worried face, they cynically blame the TV stations on us. Dear fellow countrymen! Our government in the exposé presented the intentions and directions of action, and showed where it would receive the funds. The parliamentary club and its members, even though they come from those localities that express their expectations and express their dissatisfaction, solidarity and responsible support for the government's ideas. This does not mean that during this term we will forget these matters. However, financial realism is necessary, recognising that the mechanisms that have been put in place to drive the economy, sealing the tax and turnover system, will result in the implementation of the cynical game of hope that is aroused by the propaganda of PO-PSL being replaced by responsibility for the word and fidelity of commitments.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u783	According to reliable estimates, Polish air kills 45 thousand. persons per year. The state of the air in our cities is catastrophic. Our energy is based on coal, we must not forget it, we must diversify it. Energy should be based on RES, gas, and hopefully in the near future on nuclear energy. My speech is due to the resolution of the Małopolska Voivodeship Sejmik on the introduction of restrictions on the operation of installations in which fuel is burned in the municipality of Kraków. I believe that such restrictions should be introduced in every voivodship city. We need to set standards for carbon quality, there is no carbon quality, and without that, we're not going to do anything constructive. In Poland we smoke coal, but palms with coal of good quality to reduce emissions. It cannot be that alarm states in Poland are announced at three times the alert level in other EU countries. There's 300 of us, and there's 100 of us. As a parliament, we must set standards for the quality of coal and alert states should be adequate to European standards. And above all, I speak as a Krakow resident. It's getting worse every year. The funds for the replacement of furnaces shall not be used in full. Krakow's choking. Let's do it. Sixteen cities have power. We have to take care of the air. There is a need for dynamic operation of the city authorities, rapid expansion of the district heating network, efficient use of funds for the exchange of furnaces, because - as we read in the Krakow press - coal ovens are still poisoning, and officials are not in a hurry.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-29-sejm-10-2.u784	Information about the impact of interpellations and queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. This concludes the 10th session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda for the 11th session of the Sejm appointed on 10, 11 and 12 February 2016 will be served to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 2 min 29]]
