ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u1	Resume session. I would like to appoint Monika Wielichowska, Daniel Milewski, Arthur Sobonia and Krzysztof Truskolas as the secretaries of today's proceedings. In the first part of the session, you will be Members: Monika Wielichowska and Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Members Monika Wielichowska and Mr Artur Soboń. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u2	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Justice and Human Rights at 10 p.m. 9, actually, it's already started, - Public Finance - hour. 9.30 a.m., - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 9.30 a.m., - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 10, - Economy and Development - h.m. 10, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 10, - Administration and Home Affairs, together with the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, at 3 p.m. 13.30, - Public Finance - hour. 13.30, - Public Finance - hour. 15, - Public Finance - hour. 16, - Justice and Human Rights at 10 p.m. 16, - Senior policy - h.m. 4:30 p.m., - Public Finance - hour. 5:30. The following parliamentary teams will also be held today: - Parliamentary Team for Supporting Entrepreneurship and Economic Patriotism - h.m. 10, - Joint Parliamentary Group meeting. Patients' rights, Parliamentary Group for solving problems of the residents of the district-dominant Poland and the Parliamentary Group. District Hospitals - immediately after the end of the votes, - Parliamentary Group for: Privatized Hospitals - hour 14, - Parliamentary Group for: Patients' rights - hour 15, - Parliamentary Group for: Chemical Industry - h.m. 3:30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u3	Thank you, sir. The Public Finance Commission has submitted a report on the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Payment Services Act and certain other laws. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95f of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, Marshal of the Sejm, decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. I propose that the Sejm listen to three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in the discussion on this item. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The competent committees have submitted reports on the Senate resolutions on the laws: - on the National Tax Administration, - Provisions introducing the National Tax Administration Act, - on the amendment of the law on government departments and certain other laws. The reports shall be printed in 1022, 1023 and 1004 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 54 (1) (a) 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in discussions on these items on the agenda listened to three-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending certain laws in order to improve the legal environment of entrepreneurs (print No 994). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development of Mr Mariusz Haladyj to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u4	Mr. Marshal! Dear Members, The draft law amending certain laws to improve the legal environment of entrepreneurs, which is the subject of today's reading, is part of a package of facilitations for entrepreneurs, which in such a whole composition it has a contractual name for the company. 100 changes for the company. The aim of the project that we are presenting to you today is to facilitate the pursuit of business activities. Of course, there is no need to convince anyone that the quality of this legal environment is one of the factors determining the development of entrepreneurship and the comfort of our entrepreneurs doing business on a daily basis. A number of very detailed rules from different branches of the law are, let's just say, the creativity or the ability of entrepreneurs to devote their time to what is the essence of doing business, and too much time is spent on administrative issues. One of the objectives of this project is to reduce barriers to operating, particularly administrative barriers, at particular points in economic law. The whole package of 100 changes for companies, as we call it, consists of several projects. Maybe I can present this, just so that we can draw a short picture and clarify the situation, and maybe it will be easier to work on this project and on the next ones that will come to Parliament. This package of 100 changes for companies consists of eight projects: seven draft laws and one draft regulation. Today, after the stage of the permanent committee, and before the Council of Ministers, there are three more projects - they are already more homogeneous than today - i.e.: changes in the so-called. creditor package, reform of the measurement system. Before the Committee of the Council of Ministers are still: the succession of family companies, shortening the period of storage of employee files and creating a new legal formula of a simple public limited company. The next projects will be much more homogeneous. Today's project brings together changes in various laws, often point-by-point, identified on the basis - which is probably also important - of talks with entrepreneurs. These are solutions that have emerged as a result of their identification of problems, established in various forms of cooperation, whether at meetings or within the cooperation platforms that we organise in the Ministry, cooperation with business organisations and, of course, cooperation with other ministries. And it is probably worth emphasising that in these works we did not reject ideas that could often seem small, unspectacular or even prosaic. This is also often the case, especially if there are on a mass scale, that entrepreneurs have a problem with them, which also translates a bit later into such, and I apologize for the everyday definition, irritation, in terms of the comfort of doing business. So all the changes that we are proposing are somehow responding to the barriers they have identified in their business practice. To discuss some of the groups of proposals that we are making here, perhaps I would start with changes in the regulation on control or, in principle, restrictions on the control of entrepreneurs. You know that businesses have always shown checks as a source of nuisance. Of course, these controls cannot be eliminated, but what we are proposing is a test. such as balance of interests between inspections and controlled ones. I'm just going to say, speaking of scale, that the scale of tax checks is about 100,000. per year. Health checks or ZUS is also a government of about 80,000. control per year, i.e. it is certainly an area which is for entrepreneurs, probably especially the smaller ones, felt. Thus, in the Law on the Freedom of Business, we have foreseen, first, a solution which will oblige the authorities to plan and carry out checks, but after having established the likelihood of a breach of the rules, i.e. to do so. risk analysis so that controls better identify these areas before the start of the audit, in fact, in order to reduce the number of controls in those businesses that do not generate such risks. This is a plus and for entrepreneurs themselves, of course, those who conduct their business in a reliable manner, but also seem - from the point of view of the interest of the State or from the point of view of the public interest - also desirable, because then we really focus on those where these risks are greater. Besides, it can be said that this is a trend, which has also been seen for several years, for example in transformations, when it comes to an approach, for example. to tax controls where better identification of entities now results in better collection, better detection without the need to increase the number of controls themselves. The latest figures presented by the Ministry of Finance were very clear. That's what they're showing. Other things in terms of checks are the possibility of introducing, filing a complaint to a voivodship administrative court for the duration of checks, allowing joint checks with the consent of the entrepreneur. It will be especially important in situations where there is, I do not know, the obligation to receive a building by several services, several inspections, then for the company itself it is more convenient for inspections to come together, to pick up this device or object and to deal with this matter at one time, it is from the point of view of the entrepreneur. But we also ban re-control by the same authority of the subject-matter of the audit or, for the sake of clarity of procedures from a controlled point of view, an obligation on the authorities to provide information on control procedures on their websites, in a way that is more user-friendly than a kind of dry reading by traders. Finally, this is also an answer to the demands of entrepreneurs themselves, but also an inspection. We propose to introduce an exception to the notification of the intention to carry out a check, an exception that this condition should not apply to measurements or inspections or sampling, because of course 7 days at such a time gives the possibility to move e.g. goods which are questionable from the point of view of e.g. sanitary rules, and avoid the findings of real checks, and this does not, of course, affect fair trading, fair competition. As far as changes in the Tax Order are concerned, we have a solution which is intended to increase the protection of taxpayers from the negative consequences of changing the interpretation of the rules, so-called. The legal certainty clause, which we have already discussed in the Sejm in the committee on small and medium-sized enterprises. At that time, there was also a call from the SME parliamentary team to introduce this solution. In this amendment, there is a proposal: i.e. entrepreneurs or taxpayers, because this will not only apply to entrepreneurs who did not present, for example. the individual interpretation, but they have complied with the established or dominant interpretation practice of the Minister of Finance, will have protection arising precisely from compliance with this line of interpretation against sanctions from the Treasury. If, I don't know, the approach would change, then taxpayers are protected backwards, possibly the effects of changes in the interpretation of the law by tax authorities would only concern the situation for the future. Another point is that the solution will be particularly important in a situation where, for example, It's only a matter of time before you make a decision about an investment. Then it is actually a week, there are 2 weeks to decide when there is no time to apply for an individual interpretation, then such a taxpayer can examine how the Treasury provides the provision on the basis of the interpretations that are included in the BIP. The second institution is a new institution in Polish legislation, i.e. tax explanations. This will also involve the protection of the taxpayer, which will comply with the explanations issued by the Minister of Finance. Moreover, today such explanations concerning VAT are issued by the Minister of Finance, and they are not covered by the guarantee from their compliance... are numerous, that is to say, disputes before the court as to whether or not the taxpayer protects or does not comply with these explanations. The tax authorities are most often of the opinion that they do not protect, and that is why we are introducing this institution in order to provide protection. And the third point of the law clause is the protection resulting, in quotes, from the checks carried out on VAT rates. So the positive arrangements for my application of the appropriate rate will protect me from the effects of a possible future check, which would have led me to question my method of accounting the rates, the calculation of the appropriate rates for the product in question, so that... And this protection will, of course, cover not only the period that was the subject of the treasury check, but also the period that has already occurred, of course, after the check period. Tax Ordination - another rational change, I think, but also a de facto civilization. We are introducing the principle of adding up time limits at the various stages of the procedure as regards the calculation of interest for delay in case the decision is repealed and the case is referred to again. Thus, the period which will be needed to carry out the additional proceedings, which is de facto due to the error of the body of first instance, will no longer be included in the period during which these interest rates are charged. The other two changes, in terms of financial, tax law, are those related to accounting. Firstly, it is about raising the annual revenue limit to which PIT taxpayers can lead. simplified accounting, from 1.2 million to 2 million euro. The second amendment is to increase the revenue limit for the use of flat-rate business taxation from 150 000. Euros up to 250 000 Euros. These limits have not been valued since 2008. We are just increasing the volume of entrepreneurs who can benefit from these solutions. In the case of simplified accounting, the advantage for one company can be even the government of several thousand zlotys per year plus of course less administrative burden, especially in the case of a lump sum. Work law. In turn, there is an increase in the limit from 20 to 50 employees in terms of the thresholds for the obligation to create an occupational social benefit fund and the rules of remuneration, the rules of employment, and in the workplaces where the occupational union operates, at the request of the employer, the employer will have to issue such rules or create a social benefit fund. This, on the other hand, is also related to this - this is due to our conversations with employers - that in order not to enter into these successive thresholds, entrepreneurs limit in fact employment in the company or divide companies into smaller ones, or simply employ them as a civil contract, so that they are not qualified for these thresholds either. And if there's 50,000 in this interval between 20 and 49. companies, so far in this range 1 to 19 there are 650 thousand. companies. And we are hoping that this will remove one of the barriers to the growth of these companies, so that such obligations do not hold them back from increasing the scale of activity or the scale of employment. And the entry into this threshold of 50 employees - this is already a scale effect - makes these obligations less felt for such companies. And the same is true of the limits, for example, of simplified accounting, so as not to limit revenue. And while again in this range from 1.2 million to 2 million euro there are only a few thousand entrepreneurs, but below this threshold to 1.2 million, we know that this is an excellent majority, ninety-seven percent of entrepreneurs who account for PIT. At the same time, as regards labour matters, we propose an extension and, on the other hand, an equalisation of time limits for the lodging of appeals by the employee, mainly from the termination of the employment contract - from 7 to 21 days, in the event of a request for a return to work in connection with the termination of the contract without notice and a request for a contract of employment - from 14 to 21 days. These different deadlines caused such confusion, above all, among workers. There have been situations of failure to comply with the term precisely because these terms have caused such chaos in terms of understanding or decryption. I think that, from the point of view of employers themselves, better prepared appeals are later beneficial for the efficiency of the procedure, because a longer period is also an opportunity to better express de facto the demands of the employee. Importantly, this is a common request from both employers and workers, and it is acceptance of this solution by the Social Dialogue Council. The amendments also apply to the work certificate so that it is issued only at the request of the worker if the break in employment with the employer is less than 7 days. Today, too, these regulations are not very rational, because after 24 months such a certificate must be issued, even if the employee does not expect it. In turn, for example, if he is walking. on the issue of accident insurance contributions, here also we propose a change which, I would say, rationalises these provisions a little bit, because today we have a very strict provision that if the payer does not transfer the data to the Social Security Office or transmit false data resulting in a reduction in the interest rate of the accident contribution, the Social Security Office determines by decision the interest rate of this premium for the entire year of 150% . We propose that the ZUS first be obliged to inform the payer of shortcomings, errors in his performance of these obligations, and that the payer have the chance to make up for this error, correct or transmit information and that a more rigorous sanction should occur only if he does not do so, i.e. in case of deliberate omission. Many entrepreneurs complained that this particular error, which they are not always fully aware of, has such strict consequences. This will also reduce the burden on the CSO itself, because it will not be necessary to conduct these proceedings. Information obligations on environmental legislation - here are two changes. Today, even small operators who benefit from the environment on a very small scale or place small quantities of packaging waste on the market are under these obligations. Often these entrepreneurs are not even aware of these obligations, and they are exposed to high sanctions. We therefore propose to exempt entrepreneurs who have placed on the market products in packages with a total weight of up to 1 t in a given calendar year from the obligation to carry out a public educational campaign. To illustrate, today he is obliged to carry out such an obligation, that is to conduct a public educational campaign, e.g. a small handicraft that sells mail order of its products or products. Similarly, we propose exemption from reporting obligations to marshals of those who are exempt from the payment of an environmental charge when their annual fee does not exceed PLN 100. That's a bunch of about 100,000. entrepreneurs. For the sake of illustration, I will only say that today entrepreneurs are obliged to do such an obligation, who use, for example, the business. cars - small entrepreneurs. Simplification and shortening of the investment process - here we propose for changes to the Construction Law. exemption of certain works from construction permit or notification. There will be no need to report parts of the buildings, especially economic ones. Similar changes include reconstructions or renovations of construction works - shortening the deadline from 30 to 21 days to object to construction applications. Today we have a deadline of 30 days, and if the authority does not speak within 21 days after any changes, the investor will be able to consider that there is no objection expressed by the authority, i.e. it will be called. Silent handling of the case. Here we would have had these 9 days less, but also a very rational change, in my opinion, to allow the old age to issue certificates of non-objection earlier. The old age itself tells us that sometimes there are situations that they could have issued such a certificate after 2, 5 days, and some, without such a legal basis, fear it. We have also clarified the institution's significant withdrawal from the approved construction project. We propose that no change in the height, width or length of the building, which is of course not a linear object, should be such a significant deviation from the project of any kind, if this deviation does not exceed 2% , of course, under other conditions, for example the absence of an increase in the scope of the object's impact area. That's also an entrepreneur's request. When we first heard about him, we even thought he was quite abstract. The more we talked, the more we heard about this postulate, because what they were complaining about is that in receiving these buildings, the service can examine almost the nanomillimeter with accuracy. compliance with the approved design. We also offered the possibility of using a temporary construction site until the decision on the construction permit was obtained, plus an extension of the term of use from 120 to 180 days. Today, after the end of the term of use, the temporary object must be removed, i.e. it cannot be used any longer. Recent changes in the Construction Law are also a permit to rationalise the activities carried out by the supervision itself in the event of a construction disaster. The rules will, of course, allow, if the High House accepts, one procedure for all buildings damaged in one event, which caused this construction disaster, of course, in order to explain the causes of the disaster more quickly, if, for example. As a result of one fire, an economic building burned down and located next to the garage - just to conduct one procedure rather than a few for each building. The last changes that I would signal are simplifications in technical law. I'd say two, that's just an example. This, first of all, abolishing the obligation of technical testing which precedes the adoption of decisions authorising the operation of the device in the event of a change in the operation of this device - that is how I buy a used device with important tests, so that I do not have to certify it again. A seemingly minor problem, but occurring on a very massive scale. And the second thing is to introduce the possibility for UDT and TDT to repay, defer, pay the debts into instalments. It's also a rational way to manage resources. The point is, firstly, not to conduct proceedings whose costs exceed the financial advantage which can be obtained and, secondly, to enable entrepreneurs who are in difficulty at a given point in time, at least to spread the fee into instalments or... Well, that's probably gonna be the most common situation. Finally, I would like to say absolutely that this initiative, as I said at the beginning, is an element of the process, which consists in such a difficult identification of concrete legal barriers to economic activity. It's a process, you can say, continuous, because these problems are identified by us on an ongoing basis. We, after some time of such an assessment of such a process, gather them into a group of issues and try to find solutions that will solve these problems. As I said at the beginning, some are more systemic, the type of changes in the Tax Order, but - as you Members hear - some are just such points, even prosaic. But what I can say for myself is that they're all such a daily nuisance. What we often talk about in various types of public discussions, panels, conferences, etc., we focus on such things as the most spectacular, the type of taxes, frequency, etc., and these smallest entrepreneurs are most often hurting and the most distressing of everyday life, which later in their mass, the sum of which is focused or reduced by the fact that entrepreneurs feel the whole of this economic law as bureaucratic, cumbersome and so on. Like I said, it's a toiling process. Surely this bill does not solve all the problems of small entrepreneurs either, but it is a step in the process, so that these nuisances - which, according to entrepreneurs, are severe, incriminating or even, as I said at the beginning, annoying for them, and from the point of view of the state, do not fulfil any important function - these barriers are removed. This project is a stage on the path of removing such barriers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u5	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I ask the floor of Wojciech Murdzk, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u6	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The draft law amending certain laws to improve the legal environment of entrepreneurs is the first 33 solutions from over 100, which are intended to re-bureaucratize the economy and facilitate the life of entrepreneurs. The aim of the proposed law is to improve the legal conditions for carrying out business activity in Poland. In response to the specific problems encountered in the practice of carrying out business activities and signalled by individual entrepreneurs, as well as business organisations, the project introduces deregulation changes in 18 laws aimed at simplifying the performance of business activities. The proposals are universal in nature. They will have a positive impact on small and medium-sized enterprises in particular. Among the proposed changes, particular attention should be paid to the relaxation of labour law requirements for small entrepreneurs with no more than 50 employees. The increase in employment of more than 19 employees in the current legal state entails a difficult obligation on the part of the employer: creation of an occupational welfare fund, remuneration rules, working rules. As a result, entrepreneurs are afraid to increase employment by blocking their own development. It is therefore proposed to reduce the legal requirements for small businesses by increasing the thresholds for certain obligations from 20 to 50 employees. We have amendments to the Construction Law on the exemption of certain construction works from construction permit or notification in the following cases: construction of ground floor economic buildings with a construction area of up to 35 m2 will not require either construction permit or notification; construction of a world with a construction area of up to 35 m2 provided that two buildings per 500 m2 of plot area are not exceeded; after the amendment, only the notification will be required; construction of exits from national roads and parking bays on these roads now requires construction permit, after the amendment will require only notification; in the case of exits from district roads and communes, the investment will be possible even without notification. The project provides for simplifications concerning the reconstruction of buildings, as well as the renovation of buildings. Amendment of the Accounting Act. Accounting obligations are among the most incriminating entrepreneurs. The income limit to which individuals' income tax payers may keep tax income and income accounts has not been valued since 2008. It is proposed to increase the revenue limit from EUR 1.2 million to EUR 2 million. Raising the threshold will make it easier for at least a few thousand entrepreneurs to operate and will allow significant savings in the area of accounting services. Amendment of the Act on flat-rate income tax on certain income generated by individuals. The aim is to reduce the administrative burden of compliance with tax obligations and those borne by the smallest entities. Increase the current maximum annual income threshold to benefit from flat-rate taxation from revenues recorded from 150 000. Up to 250,000. The euro will simplify tax procedures for a larger group of small businesses. Amendments to the Freedom of Business Act. In order to protect traders from the consequences of changing the interpretation of the rules, it is proposed to provide the same protection as individual interpretations, including those which do not have individual interpretations. In the proposed amendment to the Act, changes in the control of the performance of activities are designed to ensure a better balance between the interests of the entrepreneur and the public interest, thereby strengthening the state's confidence in the citizen and vice versa. It is proposed to introduce rules according to which checks will be carried out on the basis of the identification of the likelihood of a breach of law, so-called. risk analysis, which introduces the possibility to lodge a complaint with the court for the duration of the checks, provisions enabling joint checks to be carried out, introducing a ban on re-checking, requiring information on control procedures for control authorities to be included on their websites. We can see that this is the whole control package. These examples, good examples, are much more in the bill presented. They show very concrete solutions expected by entrepreneurs and announce further good changes. Law and Justice Club [[♪ The bell ♪]] welcomes the draft law presented. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u7	Thank you. I would like the floor of Mrs Mirosława Nykiel.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u8	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I will start with the fact that the year Polish entrepreneurs waited for concrete, i.e. the draft laws that implement the plan will implement a plan for responsible development. Prime Minister Morawiecki first promised the first package in June, in the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, but, ladies and gentlemen, we finally have the first draft law amending certain laws in order to improve the legal environment for facilitating the entrepreneur's work, contained in print No. 994. I have taken great interest in reading the project and I will admit to your great disappointment. So much government and personally Prime Minister Morawiecki spoke about the facilitations and needs of legislative changes, and this project that we are discussing today is changing 18 laws - it is merely cosmetic and has nothing to do with great promises and therefore the expected changes. In order not to be literal, I will give some examples of the proposed changes. For example, a revision of the rules on representation, about proxy, which gives businesses greater freedom to choose how to represent. Minister, if this is one of the biggest problems of Polish entrepreneurs, it is only possible to congratulate. Another amendment proposed in the Act is to harmonise the treatment of Saturday as the last day for action. Proposed amendment of the Article. 115 The Civil Code will cause that if the end of the term falls on a Saturday or a legal day free of work, then the deadline will be the next day not on a working day. Okay, Minister, but is this a problem that spends sleep in the eyes of Polish entrepreneurs? And just so that I'm not criticizing, I think that the changes to alleviate labour law requirements for small and medium-sized enterprises, which are to raise the employment threshold, from which we already have to prepare an occupational social benefit fund, pay regulations, working rules, is a step in the right direction. Other changes that reduce the burden of issuing work certificates or extending the deadline for dismissals or changes in building law are significant and good that you see and simplify it, but believe me, they will not make entrepreneurs want to come back from more business-friendly countries and invest in Poland, and that is the most important thing today. In conclusion, High Izbo, I would like to say that the mountain gave birth to a mouse, while what is happening to the Polish economy - the stock exchange quilts, evaporated according to various estimates from 35 to 70 billion PLN, halved the value of the energy company, investment indicators went down, and yesterday's information provided by the CSO, 2.6% GDP growth is a great pessimism, because this is also the lowest rate in 3 years. Minister, Polish entrepreneurs move their companies to our neighbours. Did we mean such a good change in the economy? Prime Minister Morawiecki - I am directing these words to Prime Minister Morawiecki - good changes, i.e. these far-reaching changes, start with the first step and this first step in my assessment is very weak. The Civic Platform is waiting for bold and quick proposals of solutions for entrepreneurs, which will encourage investment, because as I said, it is now the most important for Polish entrepreneurs and for the economy. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u9	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Mark Jakubiak, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have been observing for a long time the work on these 100 ideas to simplify the life of entrepreneurship and I appreciate that such work exists at all. However, I do not know why such important documents include such topics as: Whether the air conditioner needs a building permit or other simple things that start making jokes - e.g. If there's a security stamp on the security guard's card, I'm sorry, there's a stamp on the bodyguard's card to make sure she's not there. It seems, however, that this is a combination of ideas made ad hoc and without any major systematization, 18 sets. Here, by the way, I'd like to say that it's wrong to try this kind of guerrilla way, too, because we're talking about very serious things. However, it cannot be overlooked that things are going in the right direction, that the issue of entrepreneurship finally, after a year of functioning of the new parliament, is addressed on the floor. It is a pity that there is such an empty room, because it is entrepreneurship that maintains the whole apparatus of the state and it would be worth paying more attention to entrepreneurship. I will refer only to a few things, because, as I say, it is a very complicated law, referring to a dozen laws, and it is really difficult to even refer to it without any more discussion. I would like to say that as far as the occupational welfare fund is concerned, this is a good change, going in the right direction, anything to say that the 2% which the trader deducts from income is a heavy burden, especially for small enterprises. With the low profitability of Polish companies, this is essential. I have the impression that some companies will now be sharing in order to have the possibility of not paying a social fund in favour of, for example. Bigger wages. Ladies and gentlemen, the current status of a small individual has increased - I am talking about revenue - to 34 million on average this is also a good direction, because it has not been revalorized for a nice few years, so we have lost this small entrepreneurship somewhere. It is worth adding here that, according to the proposed proposal, a change in the status of a small unit needs to be added a unit of measurement, because here is the speech only with income in the range of 8.6 million, without reference, whether it's monthly or annual income. Come on. Please state, perhaps such a faux pas - amendment of point 4: there is no doubt that there will be an incentive for taxpayers to understand the content of tax explanations, which should result in improved knowledge of tax law and procedures. Minister, today we have to spend four hours a day reading these stacks of papers that are being made in this Seym. Practically all the rules that this Sejm is pursuing today concern entrepreneurship. Therefore, imposing or enjoying the fact that we are getting the next hour of reading is really not right. When it comes to interpretations, do we not live in a matrix? Isn't it like that 200,000? Is there any paranoia about the interpretations issued by various offices each year? Shouldn't it be that the law that we are trying to treat today should be simple, legible, without any interpretation? Shouldn't it be that a man of 30 every month should know how much tax he has to pay? CIT tax to be abolished. 1-percent tax is the solution for everything. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u11	Thank you. And Mr. Jerzy Jachnik.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to say one thing: this law lacks one thing - NGOs doing business. Yesterday in the Seym, you saw people with disabilities who produce products and sell them. They have to keep full sales books. So a non-governmental organization with 10 zlotys of income keeps full sales books, while the entrepreneur keeps up to 200,000. Euros... There's a mistake here. Non-governmental organisations, in particular non-business or manufactural organisations, should be in the area of At least up to 100,000. annually exempt from full accounting obligations, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because it kills NGOs and social movement. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u13	Thank you, sir. And please take the floor of Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u14	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It's very good that this project came along. We've been waiting for him for a year. Today's term was used: this is cosmetic. I would add: some kind of powdering, because in fact these changes in 18 laws are reasonable, but one thing - probably not such changes were about entrepreneurs. [[That's the kind of Poland...]] Some of them are indeed those that will definitely improve functioning. Here I am thinking of raising the threshold from which to create an occupational welfare fund. It seems here... In the committee, we will call for this to be extended, too, so that only 50 employees will have to pay contributions to PFRON. But that's the right direction. We welcome the increase in the amount of flat-rate tax, i.e. the increase in this threshold to 250,000. Euros. This is a very good direction. As far as building law is concerned, it is actually improving and facilitating certain activities related to investment and even building some facilities that serve businesses. I will say that when it comes to the Tax Order, I see a lot of inconsistencies here, because we are going in such a way that these tax interpretations are actually applied in general, basically covering all entrepreneurs and were adopted by other authorities, but yesterday we had a law at the Sejm meeting which deletes the previous individual tax interpretations. So it's completely inconsistent. As far as environmental law is concerned, the reporting provisions are really dead, making it difficult for businesses to act. We will therefore support this type of action as much as possible. When it comes to the form of representation of the company, i.e. changing the procurent formula, that may be a combined procura, it is actually cosmetic. This issue concerns such a small number of entrepreneurs that it is indeed a change that is not so important. However, I will say that we are aware that this is a good direction, that you are trying to offer some solutions. This is going to be hard because, let's say, 100 proposals are just being presented 33. But there should be a balance, because - I would like to mention the things that you have done for entrepreneurs during this year - Minister Ziobro proposed 25 years for VAT crimes, it is good that there is no death penalty in Poland because I do not know what would be. These things are: introducing a curator into companies, raising the minimum wage, increasing the hourly rate, destroying the system of renewable energy sources - many Polish companies will bankrupt - preventing completion of projects, introducing an in-house rule into the Public Procurement Act, which hits small and medium-sized companies, bank tax, retail tax, attempt to tax closed investment funds, increased VAT for the following years - 23%, an attempt to prevent the development of Polish pharmacies networks, because it is introduced that one company can only have four pharmacies, a contract advantage law can cause small companies to fall out of circulation and large networks to sign contracts with the largest companies because they will not be exposed to problems, tax avoidance clause, 20 thousand. fees for binding tax interpretation, cancellation of earlier individual tax interpretations, as I have already mentioned, an attempt to introduce a uniform tax which, in the opinion of entrepreneurs, is a change that will hit them, because it will raise taxes to businesses. Minister, if you've been able to do so much bad for entrepreneurs for a year, and you're presenting today a project that, unfortunately, I'm going to repeat this term - it's powdering these regulations, I have this question: don't you think there'll be anyone to enjoy your facilities because all the companies will be in Slovakia or in the Czech Republic? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u15	Please take the floor of Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u16	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Each deregulation law should be enjoyed, because it gives something to entrepreneurs, especially if we listen to the voices of entrepreneurs, to the problems they have raised. Nevertheless, what the government represents today is not enough. I would like to remind you that in the last term we had four powerful deregulation laws. I would like to say that thanks to these solutions, our economy could grow well and achieve successful results. The first deregulation bill, Minister, I think it changed 96 laws. Declarations - no one remembers this today, but it was a revolution in terms of economic law. Officials couldn't get used to it, they couldn't understand that no longer needed a certificate that people could be trusted. It's working right now, it's also working today. The changes you're making today, which you're offering us, are small changes. I think a lot of things have been ruined over the course of this year as a result of the legislative process. The legislative process is currently falling apart, it is not subject to any control. What's being watched? The envoy project, the joyful work, was written. It doesn't add up. Then there are 100 amendments, the next 100 amendments, the next 100 amendments and no one controls what changes occur in Polish law. This is very bad. We can make 10 deregulation laws, and the law will continue to be ruined. Once the European Union proposed such a solution, that if there is a solution you are introducing some difficulty, some inconvenience for the entrepreneur, please go ahead, but point out or eliminate the others to be 1:1 to be stabilized. On the other hand, we have put in place a number of obstacles at the moment, for example when it comes to controls. Today the controls are so excessive that entrepreneurs are afraid to invest first, local governments are afraid of investment, they are falling GDP, right now - the previous speakers have already said - investments are decreasing. There's a reason for that. We're not gonna do that. Of course they're good, they're needed. For example, construction law - there has always been a problem here, there has always been a nuisance, because procedures have been complicated. If we are to build, develop, we need to have a clear, easy and simple law, and an investor, an entrepreneur must not be afraid that if there is any suspicion, then control will come to him and he will sit. We have been talking for a long time about liquidation, control, limitation of controls, introduction of appropriate procedures. Has the number of checks decreased today? I'm afraid not, and there's more and more of them. Has the burden on entrepreneurs decreased? Today, the burden on entrepreneurs is huge billions of zlotys. I think we haven't decreased our reporting in the last year either, because we're introducing a lot of things that result from our law being out of control. On the other hand, even more important, more important than all this, is the stability and predictability of our law, our politicians. And here you have to have a lot of concern, and such concerns are that there is no stability of the law, there is no enforcement of the law in relation to the announcements, because there is talk of a uniform tax, and then it turns out that this tax will not be, some rates are introduced, investors will be scared, and then it turns out that this is not true. Even in this room, which is unpredictable, there are proposals from day to day. Therefore, Minister, thanking you for presenting these dozens of changes, on behalf of the Polish People's Party, I would like to say that it is not enough that we need a general change of approach to the economy, to investors, to entrepreneurs, because, as the predecessors have already said, [[♪ The bell ♪]] GDP growth by 2,5% It won't be enough for our economy to grow and have social effects. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u17	Thank you, sir. And Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u18	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The aim of the proposed law on amending certain laws is to improve the legal environment of entrepreneurs. This project is part of the business facilitation package.100 changes for companies and is a stage in the implementation of the Responsible Development Plan. These changes are intended to improve the legal conditions for carrying out business activity in Poland. Among the most important applicants are: reduction of certain administrative responsibilities, clarification of issues causing interpretative doubts, changes supporting the development of entrepreneurship and improving the efficiency of work, improvement of the investment process and reduction of the nuisance of business control. Changes are proposed, among others. in the Law on Freedom of Business, Labour and Social Security, Construction Law, Technical Law, Commercial Law, Financial Law and Environmental Protection. Presumption of the innocence of the entrepreneur and a friendly interpretation of the law or the lack of obligation to register small business is a very good announcement prepared by Deputy Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki of the Business Constitution. The question as to whether we want to make it easier for entrepreneurs is whether we want economic development or stagnation, whether we want GDP growth, new jobs, the spread of prosperity, whether we want Poland falling or strengthening its position and becoming more and more secure. The question of whether we want to make it easier for entrepreneurs is also a question of who we want to serve. For who is it used to paralyze entrepreneurship? Everyone knows who it's for. All those whose aim is to strangle the Polish economy, dishonest internal and external competitors, demoralized officials, who are preying on legal ambiguities and difficulties, thanks to which they can force bribes, economic mafias and organised crime, only people of bad will. It is famous that it is only after the last elections that it is possible to proceed with such a law in the Sejm, and after who in her case is in favour and who is against it, you can know who is behind Poland, its freedom and development, and who is against freedom, against development, against Poland. The Free and Solidarnia Circle fully supports the proposed draft amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u19	Thank you, Member. 16 ladies and gentlemen joined the questions. If there aren't any more people willing to ask questions, I'm closing the list. And I'm setting a time -- one and a half minutes to ask a question. Mr Paweł Bańkowski is the first question to be asked. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u20	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Minister, you mentioned that this bill introduces inter alia. facilitation in the area of control for entrepreneurs, and I would like to ask about this area on behalf of entrepreneurs. The bill introduces e.g. amendments to the Business Freedom Act according to which the control is planned and carried out after an examination of the likelihood of an infringement in the course of the pursuit of the business activity. The question is: Does the Minister provide for clarification of the regulation just analyzing the likelihood of an infringement? The provisions of the project in this respect have been drafted at too high a level of generality, which consequently makes it impossible to determine how they operate in practice and does not result in the rules under which the decision to conduct an analysis of the likelihood of an infringement will be taken. In addition, the provisions of the draft law provide that the only source of analysis will be a non-normative general scheme of control procedures to be included by the audit authority in the Public Information Bulletin. Entrepreneurs shall also negatively assess the change providing for the possibility of carrying out checks on the trader in the form of sampling, checking or measurement before the expiry of the 7-day period from the date of service of the notification. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the intention to initiate an inspection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u21	Thank you. I ask Mrs Mirosława Nykiel - a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u22	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! I have a question for the Minister. When will you present a proposal for changes for Polish entrepreneurs, which will reduce labour costs? What the tax burden is gonna be because what you're doing with taxes, scaring entrepreneurs, doesn't allow you to invest. You don't create a climate. You wanted to encourage, especially Prime Minister Morawiecki wanted to encourage private investors to invest, talking about these 200 billion in accounts. What you're doing with taxes doesn't encourage these entrepreneurs to invest, because no one in their right senses is going to invest in a country that doesn't create a good climate in which there's no tax stability, and it doesn't know what's going to happen to the rules, and it's literally changing from day to day. I have a question about when this is gonna happen. The second question about excise duty on cars, which at the moment is very loudly spoken about by these smallest entrepreneurs, those who import these cars, who deal in the transport of these cars, who paint these cars. It's gonna increase excise duty and it's gonna hit the smallest ones. Not to mention the Poles you promised to listen to them and take care of them, because the poorest buy them, these cheapest cars from abroad buy the poorest. What's left for them? Either buy more expensive ones if you raise your excise duty or drive those old, older, and worse cars. Why don't you listen to the Poles? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u23	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Piechowiak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u24	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask about tax interpretation. I understand that the entrepreneur will be able to benefit from existing interpretations. Will this directory be available anywhere? We know that today many offices are issuing such interpretations and searching on the Internet in every locality where such interpretations appear to be difficult. So, I don't know, will it be available on the pages of the Ministry of Finance or anywhere else? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u25	Thank you. I ask Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak - a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u26	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask, Minister: Does someone at government level analyse all these additional administrative burdens that are being put in place for entrepreneurs? By its own means, these statutory ones, while administrative burdens, additional reports, additional requirements and concessions, etc. I think I have a feeling it's out of control right now, and no one's paying attention to it. Propaganda success is important. The second thing I would like to ask you is how CEIDG works today, Central Register and Information on Business Activity, because this was also a big achievement that was introduced at the time, that within one day it was possible to register business activity. It was hard to get in, and then it worked. How does it work today, or does it work today? Is it necessary, or did it meet expectations? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u27	Thank you. Mr Janusz Cichoń, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u28	Mr. Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! I have a fundamental question. Doesn't Deputy Prime Minister Morawiecki suffer from a split personality? Consider this presentation, which has a cosmetic dimension, but actually solutions are going in the direction desired by entrepreneurs, but at the same time we have in the Sejm - I will no longer mention the solutions mentioned today in this room, from this stand, harmful to the functioning of Polish companies - e.g. VAT law, under which we make fundamental changes. VAT, which should by nature be neutral for entrepreneurs, becomes an increasing burden for them, because in fact the cost of collecting VAT falls on them. We're shortening settlement dates, we're going back to VAT sanctions. These are only examples of solutions which undermine the liquidity of Polish companies. Plus, we have the KAS law, which ends today in Parliament, and which also contains a number of restrictive businessmen. [[♪ The bell ♪]] solutions. However, this must be under control. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u29	Thank you. Mrs Maria Margaret Janyska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u30	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister, but I am aware that this question should be addressed to Prime Minister Morawiecki, because, of course, it is not the Minister who is responsible for global conditions, the climate for the legal environment of entrepreneurship, it is the Deputy Prime Minister of Morawiecki. So I'm asking. Don't you think, gentlemen, that all the tedious work you've done with this bill, which, in a large part, is an outrage to the work of the previous parliament and the previous government, is simply for nothing? We should be talking about the whole legal environment of entrepreneurship, not about selected elements. And this whole legal environment at a galloping rate has devalued. And today, ladies and gentlemen, you don't notice this, I don't know if you want to notice that you do not realize that entrepreneurs sleep with their eyelids are spending completely different risks, i.e. uncertainty and stability of action and stability of development. Here there were many indicators that document this. One of the last is also the decline in industrial procurement, and it is internal and external also, from external actors, and the inhibition of employment. So that those elements that are much more important than whether the entrepreneur will fill out one paper more or one paper less, today is much more. Ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Justice's proposals were also presented here, among others. reverse of what you are proposing: confiscation of extended assets, punishment, etc. It is also important to mention the paralysis of the Constitutional Court, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because entrepreneurs will have no one to appeal to if the bill is unconstitutional. One last question, Marshal, it's really over. Will Prime Minister Morawiecki prove to be stronger in colliding with Minister Ziobra and defending entrepreneurs from punishment, sanctions and oppressive state? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u31	I would like to ask Mrs Anna Nemś.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u32	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Everyone in this room is absolutely in favour of making life easier for entrepreneurs. The question is whether this is the first step, because, as the predecessors said, after a year we expected something more - the specifics that will solve their problems. And what do entrepreneurs expect? First of all, stability and security. Ladies and gentlemen, what you have proposed is powdering, cosmetics - I absolutely agree with that. We expect a lot more. And to be honest, about those elements that we've been able to analyze, if they're created just to be able to unhook and show in the presentation that these changes are 100, you have to think about them, because the devil is in the details. I asked on the committee of Minister Morawiecki and unfortunately I did not receive an answer. In particular, I ask for a very good decision, which is to shorten the period of storage of documentation in the ZUS. Unfortunately, the result will be that when issuing work certificates, the entrepreneur will have to issue certificates about the entire period during which the employee worked with him - all the reporting in the form of a certificate for both the employee and the Social Security Office. If we have an institution like the Social Security Office, then why are we charging it? [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's the entrepreneur? If we want to make things easier, let's not burden the entrepreneur by the way. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u33	Mr Józef Lassota. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u34	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Looking at the functioning of the Government of Law and Justice this year, it's hard to call it a success or a good change. There's one big chaos. I am saying this because it is very clear in the government that several independent decision-making centers are functioning, not to mention, of course, Minister Macierewicz, because this is an extraordinary story. But looking at this segment, which is represented by Minister Morawiecki and the Ministry of Justice, i.e. Minister Ziobro, you can see that these actions are going completely across. For example, in the project presented by the Minister, the CBA should be completed within three months. What is Minister Ziobro doing with Mr Kaminski? For example, they have been paralyzing marshal offices for five months. The CBA in every office is looking for force to show some irregularities. It is similar with entrepreneurs. I have a question about a specific issue, which has been raised in many cases by entrepreneurs, about the possibility of paying for work on Saturday in case of the consent of the employee and the employer. The Labour Code forbids this today, except in cases of continuity. If we're talking about making things easier in the legal environment, it seems that this element should be [[♪ The bell ♪]] also included. I'm asking the Minister for an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u35	I ask Mr Tomasz Kostusi to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u36	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The aim of these proposals is to simplify and improve business conditions for entrepreneurs. This is a good, proper direction, although I have a clear lack of contentment in this regard, I am even disappointed. Along with this project, parallel solutions should be taken to increase the protection of workers. Therefore, I ask you to answer the question whether the Ministry intends to address the problems of Polish workers comprehensively. Will they be presented with additional legal solutions that safeguard their position and rights? Will the Ministry finally address effectively unfair entrepreneurs and are there new solutions to these problems in this project? In addition, I would like to draw the Minister's attention to the problems of employees with a media report: in Rzeszów a few students got a month's work at the call center of 300 PLN and a proposal to renounce the remaining amount of remuneration for employees. I kindly ask the Minister to comment on this matter. Was the operation of the State Labour Inspection correct? Will the Ministry take or take steps to clarify this situation? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u37	Mr Andrzej Gawron, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u38	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, For starters, maybe I'll remind the opposition because we hear criticism here all the time. The first example on the shore: a reduction in CIT from 19 to 15% for small entrepreneurs. This is one example. To return to this law, it must be acknowledged that after many announcements we finally have concrete, there is finally a law, and solutions which are provided for in the law go in the right direction, so as to simplify the legal environment of entrepreneurs. Of course, it can be said that it is not enough, too slow, that it is too complicated, as the honourable Member has said here, but unfortunately for several years we have just led to such a system that the legal environment of entrepreneurs is so complicated and it is difficult now to change it all by one law or one idea. Of course, I would expect the Ministry, however, to lean on this matter and think whether really such a more radical, more visionary solution, which would simplify the rules that would reduce this degree of bureaucracy, increase economic freedom, could be implemented, because then we can expect that this capital, capital of Polish medium-sized and small enterprises can actually make GDP, that our economy will begin to grow. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u39	Thank you, sir. I would ask you to ask Mr Stefan Romecki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u40	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Why doesn't the wrong law change but treat the infected wounds? You are still stuck in what is wrong, and you are not trying to change the law for the better that is meant to serve entrepreneurs. Because the law in this case is supposed to be good for entrepreneurs, not bureaucrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u41	Thank you. I would like to ask Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u42	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Changes limiting the bureaucratic burden on small and medium-sized employers are desirable, giving hope to an increase in employment levels, but some of the proposed regulations lead to the abolition of employers' obligations towards their employees, to lower labour law and social rights standards. Hence my question: Has the law been consulted with the social partners and, in particular, with trade unions? What were the opinions? And to Mrs Nykiel: 8 years of reducing workers' rights and blocking social dialogue are enough. Lowering labour costs is usually turning them into workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u43	Thank you. Mr Mark Jakubiak, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u44	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Three questions. The first concerns k.s.h. and the ratio or reduction of this threshold for supplementing the agenda of the general meeting of shareholders. I would like to point out here that the real problem in this paragraph is that, Minister, it is the partners who should call the general meetings, not the boards. Boards that do not work well for the company and are to be cancelled must call the assembly themselves, and most often there is a great deal of trouble with it. Therefore, it would be worth giving an alternative: either the partners are calling a general meeting directly, or it is done through the board of directors. However, with regard to economic freedom and the Law on Economic Freedom, there appears to be already a paragraph according to which only one control can be carried out in a small enterprise. However, please pay attention to the last entry e.g. in writing.: The option of joint control is to initiate a further check during another check. Let me put it this way: the same thing can be controlled by a completely different ministry, another controlling one. Regarding UDT, I have a question here: Why does UDT issue gross invoices but does not issue VAT invoices? This is very important because the costs are, there is no form of VAT write-off and the service has been performed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u45	Thank you. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchon.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u46	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, there's a company in Cieszyn called FACH SA. This is a very large employer, one of the largest in the region, probably the largest in Cieszyn, very important for the Polish economy, because he is engaged in exports. Unfortunately, this company is being liquidated, in fact, you're eliminating it. You sent control, you sent the State Labour Inspection, and it suddenly turned out that despite the fact that this company has been operating for decades, suddenly it has to rebuild something there in the factory hall because it didn't like the inspectors. So what is the support of entrepreneurs if, in fact, the state, the state administration is shutting down these companies? This project, in the context of what is really happening with entrepreneurs, seems to be some kind of hypocrisy of absolutely highest flights and far-reaching incompetence. Ladies and gentlemen, it cannot be that you send controllers to the company, you close Polish companies, and here such a flower to the goat, which, of course, goes in the right direction, but really does not change anything in the situation of Polish companies. It can't be that you're doing PR here at the Seym Hall, because that's what you have to call it, and you're harassing these entrepreneurs with every next checkup. And you are full of infirmities when it comes to changing the disastrous behaviour of Polish entrepreneurship officials. I wanted to ask, in the context of this law, whether you will support the idea of a modern one that the PFRON contribution should be paid not from 20 but from 50 employees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u47	Mr Sylwester Khrushch, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u48	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I've been running a civil partnership for 15 years. I'm an architect. All these years, I've seen how many of my colleagues designers, entrepreneurs, and developers we've worked with have had problems, how much time we've spent to keep our companies going to prosper. A number of our burdens were precisely due to the tax offices and other controls around us. After these 15 years now, by the end of the year, the company in which I had shares, we're going to be turning into an O.R. company. And I was very excited, I heard here about all the changes that simplified accounting is supposed to be about companies, but today I find out that only civil companies and public companies, but not companies with o.o. So I wanted to applaud these changes today, but I'm finding out that my parent company is going to have the bookkeeping that's going to burden us again. Minister, I have a question: why did you stand in half a step, why aren't we going any further? After all, we are all aware, and surely you know that the relief of small and medium-sized enterprises is a real cost in plus for the state, that is greater tax revenue, that is greater economic freedom, [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is more entrepreneurship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u49	Thank you. Mr Adam Andruszkiewicz, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u50	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In the Responsible Development Plan, of course, it welcomes the fact that such decisions are being taken to reduce the bureaucratic burden for entrepreneurs, but I would like to ask whether the government is planning, for example, under this plan. maintaining the amount of the reduced ZUS, at least for beginner entrepreneurs, for a longer period than it currently is, i.e. 2 years. In our opinion, most young people who start their business in Poland have a problem primarily with maintaining it, on the one hand, for reasons of bureaucracy, of course, because the rules are often unclear, but above all because they enter this elevated ZUS and often it pays more to close the business than to keep it, and not to charge the Treasury. Well, ladies and gentlemen, if someone stops doing business, first of all he stops paying taxes to the Treasury, second of all he often becomes a burden on the Treasury, because he has to collect benefits, thirdly he has to choose emigration very often. I know a lot of young people who are shutting down their business, going to the West because they say they're the only ones who can do it. So we ask you very much to answer this question, if we are able to reduce this ZUS for beginner entrepreneurs, so that this low ZUS will last much longer than 2 years. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u51	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development of Minister Mariusz Haladyj to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u52	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm not a champion or a polemic lover, so I'm going to try to answer some questions briefly and with facts. One general remark was repeated: not enough, too slow, etc. Let me stress once again that this is one element. I would say that this is one element of the first, so to speak, a package of legislative changes. Of course, you can imagine that we are grouping everything into one law, but I think that even for the economics of the legislative process and adding further elements and extending work for the next months would not be a good solution. That is why what did not fit into the character of the projects that I mentioned and what I would no longer like to repeat, we have gathered into the so-called. a deregulation law, as the name itself says, a law that simply removes some kind of individual changes often, which, as I said, irritate entrepreneurs every day. I know you can laugh at procura or Saturday. Firstly, I did not speak in my speech, I did not present these proposals, and secondly - there is no Member - I would suggest a conversation with entrepreneurs. In view of this, for example, that Saturday is included in the deadlines today, how many entrepreneurs lost their cases because they did not have time to file an appeal, to file papers to the office, because the deadline just passed on Saturday and they did not know it. You can smile at this proposal, but it's like solving problems when you hold on to it, so to speak, feet of the ground, because it's this kind of action, like it's the purpose of this bill. Prokura - we can smile too. This is a very practical problem of thousands of companies, so that after the Supreme Court ruling the possibility of mixed procura, which we are proposing here, will in fact be restored. Today it's gone, so it doesn't affect great ideas from the point of view of great ideas, but we solve problems that are on a daily basis in companies and affect these companies on a mass scale. Like Mr Jakubiak said about stamps. The Member laughs at the fact that this law removes stamps, whereas those who have to apply these rules laugh at those rules, the fact that the rules require the use of stamps, whether in shares or in the law on the protection of the property of persons. So either we smile at these changes, or we let entrepreneurs laugh at the rules, so that's the choice. It is a risk of sharing: 20 or 50, as I would say, I would say, it is much smaller just when we raise this threshold to 50 than 20, because what we have today is information from the entrepreneur, that is precisely that these small entities, which are still not large, are still divided if this counter were to jump to 20 or 21. On the other hand, 50, where there is this threshold, where a small company ends - at least by definition - causes in the case of a company which is a company more that administrative costs or the running of a social benefit fund, or the issuing of regulations are much smaller than for companies which are several-member companies. As far as interpretations are concerned, that is: under the idea that the law should be simple, without interpretation, we sign, of course, but this is also a choice, an alternative: whether we aim to improve the quality of the law as a whole, only and only to try to catch this idea without making any movement in the middle or these interpretations by entrepreneurs... However, one can really wonder whether they are a little bit here in the hierarchy of law, but entrepreneurs appreciate these interpretations. Let us remember that we have so much of this right that it is not always the most readable in the world. Thanks to our presence in the European Union, these rules that come are sometimes directly transferred or directly applicable to EU regulations. And these particular interpretations, in my opinion, are needed, however, to make it clearer for entrepreneurs. I think that if we offered them today to abolish the interpretation, we would cause quite a bit of confusion and very much resistance from the entrepreneurs themselves. Mr Jachnik asked about non-business non-governmental organisations. We can talk about it, I don't know, maybe also with the definition of economic activity. I am unable to refer to this so quickly, what are the considerations that they have that there is no simplified accounting, as the Member has said. Mr Meysztowicz spoke about these interpretations, but this is an amendment, it seems, which appeared yesterday in the Seym. According to my knowledge, it does not apply to all individual interpretations, only a very small part of the interpretations concerning aggressive tax optimization planning. So with my information, which I tried to get from the Ministry of Finance even quickly, this is not an absolute change, which is aimed at removing individual interpretations from the system of law. Mr Kasprzak said: small changes. I have been working in this administration for several years and I would not say that the amendments to this law are less important than the amendments in the four deregulation laws that you mentioned. This principle is not a Commission principle or a European Commission. The United Kingdom tried to introduce this principle with different consequences because I talked to the British about it. It is not always what looks great in the theoretical model, then it is so easy to move into life and draw from it the same positive benefits. The British, I remember, didn't record the effects by introducing this principle into the system. Mr Kasprzak also spoke about the number of checks. That's not what I'd say. It is not so much about reducing the number of controls by force, it is about better planning, better identifying the entities that are selected for control. I think that we have a problem, for example, with the gap in turnover tax, in the tax on goods and services or in income tax, that is not the reason to reduce the number of checks, but rather to profile it better in areas where this risk of irregularities is greater. Mr Bańkowski asked about risk analysis to clarify this at the statutory level. I believe that it is difficult at the statutory level to clarify this provision because it will be a provision that will be applied in the case of health inspection and inspection, I do not know, food. I do not think that we are able to specify at the statutory level the risks that these services will take into account, the more that this is also a dynamic reality. It's not like you can once and for all identify the risks and then fly with the controls. This is something that is also up-to-date in the control work methodology, which is updated, adapted to the changing mechanisms for generating irregularities. The control scheme is not used to show what risk analysis will be. The control scheme is meant to serve something else. The control scheme is intended to provide a clearer presentation to the potential controlled course of checks, the powers of controllers, the responsibilities, so that the trader does not have to read 15 laws and 17 regulations, only that he has the path outlined in such a scheme. Mr Bańkowski asked about the negative reactions to this exception from the 7-day notification in terms of sampling, inspection and measurement. At the agreement conference, the voices of the entrepreneurs were against it. Those who do business honestly say it's not worth it to them. They comply with all legal requirements related to compliance with all standards, rules and requirements, and the trader two fences further fail to comply with these rules. There comes a check that says good morning, and in seven days we'll come check it out. These 7 days are a great service for these, I don't know, stored old engines or any other devices at this time to be transported quietly. This certainly does not improve the situation of someone who conducts business in a reliable manner. So this is, as I said in my first speech, the demands of companies and inspections. Mr Nykiel, a reduction in labour costs. Of course, this is not the subject of this bill, but the costs are often, I would say, demonized. We are more or less in the middle of the European Union's rate in terms of labour costs. As for the uniform tax, the assumptions will soon be presented. As far as excise duty is concerned, it seems that, as far as I know, excise duties will increase for older cars, over 10 years old, and with large engines, and for the vast majority or the vast majority of excise duties will decrease. Mr Piechowiak asked about tax interpretations. The catalogue of all individual interpretations is in the BIP of the Ministry of Finance. It is in one place to calm, so to speak, to grasp, without having to walk on the sides of individual tax offices or tax offices. Mr Kasprzak, asking questions for the second time, asked about CEIDG. CEIDG works as well as possible okay. There are minor changes in this law related, for example, to the possibility of reuse, i.e. the re-use of information that is in CEIDG, of course, those that are publicly available. We're probably gonna repeal the Freedom of Business Act so that when we design business law... I think there will be a new act on the CEIDG, but I wouldn't think there would be any big revolutions here, rather it would be a single improvement. I think the CEIDG is working well after all. Mr Cichoń asked about VAT. I'd say action is needed and on the left side of the balance sheet, and on the right side of the balance sheet. This bill probably fits more in the left-hand side of the balance sheet, looking from the entrepreneur's side, and deletes certain things - speaking of cash register - deletes etc., but on the other hand there is also a need for action to... As I said before, we objectively have a problem with the VAT gap as well as in income taxes and actions or solutions which are in the VAT Act, so-called. sealing, also based on the experience of other countries of the type. The Netherlands, so you cannot miss this side of economic reality as well. Mrs Janyska was also involved in these general comments, so I will not repeat it again. Mrs Nemś asked about the storage of files, the electronicisation of employee files and the shortening of this period, she said that we would introduce some great additional obligations for employers. We won't. What will be an additional obligation for the entrepreneur will probably be one card attached to the work certificate as an annex to the salary of the worker concerned in each year. I think that this obligation in exchange for a 40-year reduction in the retention period of employee records is worth fulfilling it. We're also up to date with our employers by designing these changes, but we're going to talk about the details of how this project will affect the Sejm. Mr Lassota asked about changes to the Labour Code. Oh, it was Saturday's issue to pay for Saturday instead of giving up the day off for the worked Saturday. We have analysed this problem, this issue, but we have not found an appropriate solution that would protect an employee from later abuse by the employer. On the other hand, if the Member here has an idea to reconcile the interests of the employer and the worker, we are, of course, open to talking about it. Mr Kostus asked about labour law, comprehensive changes. The Labour Law Codification Commission has begun. She will prepare the Labour Code both in collective labour law and in individual labour law, so there will be comprehensive changes. As far as dishonest entrepreneurs are concerned, there are also those who actually abuse certain rules. These changes, in terms of control, also serve, that is to say, to carry out checks on the basis of the so-called. risk analysis or sampling, inspection, etc. It is also used to detect irregularities more effectively. There were questions about the call center and the actions of the State Labour Inspection. I obviously don't know the case. The PIP is also subject to the Sejm, so here is the supervision, while in the government responsible for these matters is the Minister for Foreign Affairs. work. Mr Suchoń. Yes, the changes were consulted with the social partners. The project was addressed to the Social Dialogue Council and to all partners separately. As regards changes in labour law related, for example, to the increase of this limit from 20 to 50, please note that we have also left there the right for the company's union organisation to submit a binding application for regulations and to create a welfare fund. Mr Jakubiak asked about the Code of Commercial Companies, proposed that the partners should also be able to convene general meetings or meetings of shareholders. I admit I haven't thought about it, so I'm not gonna answer that ad hoc either. It is a change on the one hand quite systemic, on the other hand it is not some actually turbulent order. We'd love to think about it, get back to it... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Great. We will also consult with the Ministry of Justice as the host of k.s.h. Co-control. Indeed, today there is a rule banning coexistence. What we're introducing is that, with the permission of a controlled check, they can come together so that they can carry out this check together. It's like that. In the seaports, we had a problem with the ship coming and six services approaching control: one on Tuesday, the other on Thursday, the fifth on the next Wednesday. And these six services were able to extend this process of release to the market even for a few weeks or two weeks. As I recall, it was an average period. This is where the solution was put in place, that all checks are to be carried out within 24 hours. I want you to come in, check it out, and I want the merchandise on the market. A little similar philosophy is here. If I have a building that has to go through the fingers of two, three, four inspections until it's done, just like the entrepreneurs said: they would often rather come together at one time, so that, I don't know, for three days they checked, they would go to him. It's less cumbersome than having guests every couple of days. UDT, actually UDT services are not subject to VAT. I'm not prepared to answer ad hoc like that either, so with the Department of Development, which is overseeing the UDT, we'll talk about whether these services could actually be subject to VAT or not. But I don't know, I'm just not prepared to answer quickly. Mr Suchoń, PFRON from 50 or the Council of Ministers will support this. I assume there will be a position. If there is a parliamentary project, it will be the position of the Council of Ministers, although this too, I would say, shows one thing. On the one hand, we are criticized that the changes are not significant enough, and on the other hand there is this proposal which, by applying a similar proposal, as in the criticism of our proposal, I would say, is not, I have the impression, some fundamental one. And I also see this contradiction in this argument. The same as when some of you say that the law is too slow to process, and in the second sentence that changes to the law follow too quickly and the entrepreneur cannot deal with them anymore. We, too, prefer to consult with businessmen, because we can't catch anything, and they'll give us something else to tell us rather than actually run for the race. Mr Khrushcz asked about simplified accounting for capital companies. I don't know, but I think EU law prohibits the use of simplified accounting for capital companies, but we'll also check it out at the Ministry of Finance. Here we are actually introducing this for entrepreneurs who account for themselves as part of PIT. I say, I think there's a problem here with EU law when it comes to capital companies. Mr Andruszkiewicz asked for a reduced ZUS for more than 2 years. I think that the answer will also fall more when it comes to tax, when presenting the principles of a single tax, because here it also needs to be covered by a comprehensive action. So that's probably all the very specific questions that were. Let me just say once again that you can say that changes are small, but talk to entrepreneurs who have to deal with these problems on a daily basis too. It is not that entrepreneurs expect only changes, major directions, etc. That's also because these changes are happening too. We will also be, as I said, a law on freedom of business, here such an act which should be fundamental to economic turnover, and is not today, have changed. I also think that the right of entrepreneurs, this draft state in the Sejm, or we will work together. So I would say that big changes are needed and big changes are needed, and more homogeneous changes, just the type of succession or changes to K.P.A., which are about to come, or changes that improve the creditor's situation in the debt recovery process. It's over, too. She'll be in the Sejm any minute. But there is also a need for small changes that entrepreneurs feel in such a daily operation. Hence, not only are we trying to turn to great ideas, but we are also trying to walk on the ground and, speaking to entrepreneurs, also such annoying changes, annoying barriers to doing business to remove. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u53	Thank you, sir. I'm closing... [[Mr. Marshal, the corrigendum.]] You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u54	Minister, I just want to be more specific. As far as k.s.h. is concerned, today's partners can call if they don't call the board. In the event of disciplinary dismissal, this takes several months, which is very dangerous for the company. That's first of all. Secondly, if an entrepreneur is to agree to any checks at one time, I would like to say that sometimes this consent is forced, because the control authorities often have schedules of their controls and when they jump out of the schedule, the next check may be in a few months. Therefore, in this current mode of action for limited liability companies or businesses, several checks at the same time, especially in small and medium-sized enterprises, are unbearable. And here may be a case of this, because it extends to consent, because there is no possibility, and now there is consent, this consent will be forced, I have just such doubts, circumstances from an independent entrepreneur. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u55	Thank you, sir. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law amending certain laws in order to improve the legal environment of entrepreneurs, contained in print No.994, to the Extraordinary Committee on Deregulation for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I propose on the basis of an article. 39 (1) (a) 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm for the committee to submit a report on the draft by 29 November 2016. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Law on Rail Transport and certain other laws. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 54 (1) (a) 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to three-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Public Finance on the adoption of the Senate on the Act on National Tax Administration (Prints No. 988 and 1022). I ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u56	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! At yesterday's meeting, the Public Finance Commission discussed the Senate's resolution on the National Tax Administration Act. 12 amendments were examined during a wide discussion with the members of the committee, representatives of the Ministry of Finance with the Minister and representatives of the social side, mainly representatives of the trade unions of customs services. All amendments were welcomed by the committee. On behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, I recommend that the High House adopt the amendments tabled by the Senate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u57	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please, Mr Łukasz Schreiber will be the first to speak. You're welcome, sir. There's no envoy? Oh, there it is. I'm sorry. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u58	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present my position on the amendments proposed by the Senate to the National Tax Administration Act. The Act of 21 October sets up the National Tax Administration. At its meeting on 4 November, the Senate examined this law and adopted amendments to it. The main focus is on maintaining the current regulations on civil aviation security control, and therefore calls for the deletion of the changes aimed at entrusting this task to the National Tax Administration. This is exactly what the amendment to the Article is about. 2 (2) 1 and paragraph 1. Point 4 of Article 2 Article 33 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 133 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1. They delete the regulations providing for the National Tax Administration to carry out tasks in the field of civil aviation security control. The purpose of the amendment is to leave the task of carrying out checks on persons, baggage, cargo, mail, on-board supplies and airport supplies in connection with air transport and in the area of transition from the public area to the restricted area of the airport to the execution by the airport manager and the regulated agent and the registered on-board supply provider. Thus, this amendment is the most important, the others are aimed at, as is the case with this article. 2 (2) Point 17, the codification of rules, as the task of the national administration is also to combat the offences mentioned in that provision, and not just to identify and detect them. Also amendments to the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1 point 2 and Article. Article 33 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 3 clarifies the solution whereby the competent authority to consider an appeal against the decision of the head of the customs and treasury office concerning the security of customs and tax duties shall be the Director of the tax administration. Another amendment - Article. 52 identifies the Head of National Tax Administration as competent to make tax information available. Further, they specify the reference so that it refers to both slots and equipment for gambling activities. In short, with this one change that was not actually well prepared, we are able to withdraw. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of these behaviours [[♪ The bell ♪]] amendments of the Senate, i.e. against their rejection. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u59	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Janusz Cichoń.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u60	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I would like to express my position on these amendments. I will start by saying that these amendments, for the weight and size of this submission, are not much, which is a big surprise to me personally, because I expected a larger number of them. In practice, this means that either the Legislative Office and we actually carried out our duties during quite a long procession, or the Senate Legislative Office did not have much time to take a closer look at these solutions. I place my second bet on this, and I assume that by March at the latest, there will be a need for legislative amendment of this law in a number of points. With regard to the amendments, I will say that we will vote in favour of these amendments, but they are also an example of a certain frivolous, not to say irresponsible, approach to legislation, especially with regard to amendments 1, 5, 12. These are amendments to the tasks related to civil aviation security control, because here we had a solution in the form of a parliamentary amendment, within which 2 000. people working at airports in private agencies were on the pavement, and we tried to show carrots to customs. So it was 2,000. jobs for them for the sake of maintaining this security precisely, and after a bit quieted down customsmen, clicks, and we have an amendment, within which the 2 000. the jobs for customs officers are virtual, which means for them increasing the risks associated with this change and consolidation of customs and fiscal control services. However, I can say that I had more hopes, we had more hopes as regards the amendments related to appeals against the decisions of the heads of customs offices, because we have here, let me remind you, a clear departure from the two-instant, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And we assumed, I assumed that this Senate amendment had a slightly broader dimension...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u61	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u62	...and unfortunately, it only concerns the question of securing customs duties on a good case.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u63	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u64	Taxpayers will be able to appeal to the head of the tax administration and, on other matters, to the head of the customs and treasury office...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u65	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u66	...and let me remind you, 90% the decisions are repealed by the tax chambers. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u67	Thank you. High Izbo! I have a huge request for all the next ladies and gentlemen who will be speaking. About an hour. 11.30 were scheduled to vote. Since these earlier points have stretched out a little bit, please stay in time. Please, Mr Mirosław Pampuch.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u68	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Poselski Club I would like to present the club's position on the amendments made by the Senate to the National Tax Administration Act. It should be recalled that at the legislative stage in the Sejm we had several hundred amendments. The amendments made by the Senate are basically only editorial amendments related to the change, among others. the date of implementation of those laws. Since the Senate Legislative Office clearly stated that this is too short a time limit for the work and analysis of the whole of this law, it is therefore unable to make substantive amendments to it. That is why we are only dealing with legislative amendments or with those from which the government has withdrawn, among others. as regards the coverage by the National Tax Administration of security at civil airports. Of course, legislative amendments tabled by the Senate of the Parliamentary Club The modern will support it. However, this does not change the fact that we are still dealing with a very important mess in the National Tax Administration Act, among others. related to the powers of the head of the National Tax Administration and the head of the Customs and Treasury Office concerning, inter alia, operations related to operational controls, activities related to the acquisition of ICT data or operational control. This will result in very significant perturbations related to the control of entrepreneurs. There was a talk here in the previous point about facilitations for entrepreneurs, while we have the National Tax Administration, which will dramatically worsen the situation of entrepreneurs in relation to tax authorities. And it is not so, Minister, as you claim, that this applies only to criminals. These rules will primarily apply to honest entrepreneurs with fiscal controls. Another issue raised: there is still a lack of duality in this law. And this is where the Senate's Legislative Office clearly indicated that such legislation violates the Article. 75 constitutions, because here we are dealing only with the re-examination of the case, [[♪ The bell ♪]] not by appealing the decision to a higher court. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u69	Thank you, sir. And please take the floor of Mrs Genowefa Tokarska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u70	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I will present my position on the report of the Senate's resolution on the National Tax Administration Act, print No. 988 and 1022. The Senate has tabled 12 amendments to this bill. Most of them These are editorial amendments, which are more specific. In principle, one amendment is substantive and concerns safety tasks in civil aviation. This task will remain the responsibility of the airport staff, in accordance with the Aviation Law. And this is where the Senate came up against the demands of the airport security services. I would like to point out that the Senate has not shown even a little goodwill towards the Customs Service. The Commission has welcomed all 12 amendments. The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party will vote in accordance with the opinion of the committee. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u71	Thank you, Member. I ask the floor of Mr Ireneus for profit.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u72	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Circle of the Members of the Free and Solidarnia, I present my position on the report of the Committee on Public Finances on the adoption of the Senate on the Act on National Tax Administration, prints No. 988 and 1022. As I have pointed out from this speaker several times during the work on the draft law on National Tax Administration, the reform of the system of collection and control of public danins is needed and expected. Citizens expect a simple and efficient system operating without excessive costs. As the Free and Solidarnia Members' Circle, we believe that consolidation of tax administration, tax control and Customs is a good solution. The National Tax Administration Act adopted by the Sejm serves to achieve this objective. At its meeting on 4 November 2016, the Senate examined the law adopted by the Sejm and adopted 12 amendments to it. We agree with the proposal of the Committee on Public Finance to adopt all these amendments. These are important and constructive amendments. At the same time, it should be noted that in this case once again the important role of the Senate of the Republic of Poland in making better law was confirmed. The most important, in our view, are amendments 3 and 4, assuming that the head of the customs office will not be the competent authority to consider the appeal against the decision to safeguard customs and tax duties. The competent authority at the second instance will be the parent body, i.e. the director of the tax administration, which should be considered a correct solution, consistent with the essence of duality and thus translate into a greater level of confidence of citizens in the institutions of the state. We can read in the explanatory memorandum: The Senate considered it reasonable and sufficient to achieve the objective pursued by the legislator of speeding up proceedings, so that only in the event of the conversion of customs and treasury checks into tax proceedings would the competent appeal authority be issuing decisions at first instance the head of the customs and treasury office. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Members of the Free and Solidarnia Circle will vote in favour of the amendments proposed by the Senate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u73	Thank you, sir. Two Members joined the questions. I'm closing the list of people. I would like to inform the High House that, as a result of this shift, at the following points so-called. I won't allow questions from the senate. Please, as the first question, Mrs Józef Hrynkiewicz will ask this point. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u74	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I have a brief question for Minister Marian Banasia: Would the delay in the implementation of this law not jeopardise the purposes for which it is adopted?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u75	Thank you. And Mrs Krystyna Skowronska, I ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u76	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! The State in this House today, presenting a report, is playing imponderabilia, and the whole law is not consulted, a parliamentary project introducing reform of customs and treasury administration, a large project involving 65 thousand. persons, do not provide them with employment, any comments related to the transfer of workers are avoided. What do we have? Taking care of officials thinking about whether they will have a job in the future, taking care of bosses verifying their officials, and the minister without a competition will appoint bosses. No regulations, no parliamentary proposal - no consultation. And the latter case - the amendment was made, not knowing that the airport security services are companies or self-government companies with the participation of the State Treasury or daughter's companies. It's a huge chaos. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And there's nothing to justify it...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u77	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u78	...to change my mind about the reform being carried out.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u79	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u80	If you can do that to deal with taxpayers...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u81	Member, thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u82	...not officials? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u83	I request the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Minister Marian Banasi.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u84	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Members and honourable Members, With regard to the question raised regarding the extension of the date of entry into force of the Act of 1 January 2017 to 1 March 2017, I would like to say that we have actually taken such a decision here in a responsible manner in order to give an opportunity for an even better and more thorough review and consultation of the regulations which must be issued for those laws which are now to be adopted. I would like to say that under the National Tax Administration Act 80 regulations are envisaged, including 26 regulations which enter into force on 1 March 2017 and 10 regulations, including nine regulations which enter into force on 1 March 2017. I would like to say that all these projects are practically ready, we are working on them, they are in the process of internal ministerial arrangements, and after the adoption of the law that we are proceeding today, they will be sent for inter-ministerial consultations. At the same time, in order to maintain the continuity of the work of the authorities and to avoid the accumulation of legislative work, 58 regulations issued under the repealed Tax Control Act and the Customs Service Act shall remain in force until the adoption of the Regulation under the KAS Act, but no longer than 12 months or 3 years respectively. Those regulations can also be revised during this period. It shall constitute an Article. 258 Laws introducing the National Tax Administration Act. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to ask you: What about the workers? So there's nothing to worry about, I've already emphasized it. We discussed this very carefully at the subcommittee meetings, which lasted for 3 days after 9 hours, and for 9 hours in committee as well. So it cannot be said that this law, these two laws, were not consulted. They were very highly consulted. There we assured, today I confirm that all employees with a lot of experience, with great competence with calmness can simply be employed in the new structure of the National Tax Administration. If it is necessary - as I have already said, also from this speaker - a certain reduction in employment, this will mainly apply to workers of retirement age, which today we have almost 5 000. So that there is no slightest concern, all this will be implemented in a smooth, calm way, without any worries. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u85	Thank you. Will the rapporteur speak again? No. Then I'll close the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 21 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Public Finance on the adoption of the Senate on the Law Rules introducing the Act on National Tax Administration (Prints No. 989 and 1023). I ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u86	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! At yesterday's meeting, the Public Finance Commission discussed the Senate's resolution on the Law of Laws introducing the National Tax Administration Act, print No. 989. The Senate resolution contained 40 amendments to this law. Following a thorough analysis of these amendments involving representatives of the Ministry of Finance, members of the committee and the social side, mainly representatives of the Customs trade unions, all amendments proposed by the Senate were accepted. On behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, I recommend that the High House adopt these amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u87	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please, Mr Luke Schreiber.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u88	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present our position on the Laws introducing the Law on National Tax Administration. These amendments are made more than in relation to the National Tax Administration Act. In fact, there are two main groups of these amendments. The first concerns the transfer by 2 months of the date of creation of the National Tax Administration - from 1 January to 1 March 2017 - in order to ensure that everything goes smoothly and without any organisational problems. The second group of amendments concerns the deletion of regulations aimed at entrusting the National Tax Administration with civil aviation security control. In fact, I already said that, too, we can admit a mistake here. The other amendments are actually editorial in nature, these are changes concerning clarification of certain things. Therefore, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, in line with the amendments tabled by the Senate and with the opinion of the Committee on Public Finance, will vote in favour of maintaining them, i.e. against their deletion. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u89	Thank you, sir. Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, I ask you to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u90	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! We are finishing work on two important laws: on National Tax Administration and on introducing regulations. It is worth it, because this is the last moment, to say that the Government of Law and Justice with the hands of Members, because this is a parliamentary project, without consulting it introduces a major reform, which causes great concern. We are concerned about the implementation of this solution, namely the reform of uniformed services, the fact that it is a parliamentary project. There's no consultation, and the last consultation is 10 years... A short deadline without providing protection for employees working in the tax administration and in the customs administration. And we are not reassured by the Minister's words on this matter, because if there really were pure intentions in this matter, you could propose that all employees will enter the new service, the new administration, and you will only verify them when they are not fulfilling their duties. The absence of employment guarantees concerns 65 000. persons, including 15 000. Customs officers. We have a citizens' project on the wallpaper in the Sejm concerning pensions in the Customs Service and the fulfilment of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. It was necessary to wait and correlate these two projects so that customs staff would eventually know where they were, even though you assured them that they would be dissolved and supported by the citizens' project. 85 regulations are missing. In fact, the Minister says you write them. The state guaranteed - I was a member of the subcommittee and the finance committee - that by the end of the legislative process we would receive draft regulations or regulations. That's not here today. We welcome, but this is little satisfaction, that the state finally realized that airport security services are employees either by state Treasury companies, daughter companies, or local governments and State Treasury entities in the form of airport companies. I think that the fact that you've pulled out of this is a good solution, but there are no other good solutions in the project. You're calling the so-called... You are introducing new solutions, and there was a lot of these amendments during the process. The government should be responsible for the major reform it wants to introduce by submitting a project, [[♪ The bell ♪]] for which he is responsible from start to finish.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u91	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u92	You missed it. We're...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u93	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u94	...against this solution, although we will support cosmetic amendments. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u95	Thank you. And please take the floor of Mr Mirosław Pampuch. High Izbo! I would like to inform you that there will most likely be about an hour before the vote is postponed. 12 if you're in time. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u96	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am pleased to present my position on the report on the Senate amendments concerning the Law on the National Tax Administration. As has already been mentioned here, the provisions proposed by the Senate concern in principle editorial changes and changes resulting from the shift of the date of entry into force of this law, actually this complex of laws. And you could, as it turns out, extend the date of entry into force of the law. It was also possible, Minister, to properly prepare these projects and give time to both the High House and other actors to consult and properly transpose these draft laws. In this case, we're not dealing with this. The Senate Legislative Office also draws attention to the new institution of the tax advisor. This new tax advisor institution is basically very enigmatically anchored in these regulations. To date, it is not known whether it will be in any customs office, tax office or not. It is unknown what will be the separation of cases between the body, the head of the customs and treasury office, and the tax advisor, in whose name the tax advisor will finally make decisions. This is very important. We've dealt with a failed experiment in the treasury, when the tax controllers had the quality of the tax authority, unfortunately it didn't work out well for the tax company. Hence, there are still more questions than answers to this very extensive reform. This reform will continue to consist only in the ownership of the next segment of the state, this time the treasury, customs services by Law and Justice through verification of 65 thousand. employees of this camera. I believe that, judging by the number of amendments made both in proceedings before the High Sejm and after this abdication in principle of the Senate's legal services in relation to the amendment of this law, we will certainly have to deal with another amendment of the provisions of these laws before the entry into force of these laws. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u97	Thank you, sir. And please take the floor of Mrs Genowefa Tokarska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u98	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the Senate's Senate's resolution on the Act of Law introducing the Act on National Tax Administration, prints No. 989 and 1023. The Senate has tabled 40 amendments. Most of them are editorial, precise. I would say that the seven most important amendments are the deletion of the tasks to be carried out by the National Tax Administration for airport security services. This is as requested by the airport security staff concerned. The second point is to postpone the date of entry into force of the Act from 1 January 2017 to 1 March 2017. This will, of course, allow for better preparation of implementing acts and the transformation of tax and customs services. And in this way, High Izbo, we are finishing work on changes in Customs and Treasury. I would like to stress that these are not good solutions. They only create uncertainty, chaos and a simple mess. The Committee on Public Finance has given a positive opinion on the Senate's amendments, although, as I stress, they are cosmetic, they do not bring anything essential to the bill. The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party will vote in accordance with the opinion of the Committee on Public Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u99	Thank you, Member. Mr Ireneus profit, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u100	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the report of the Committee on Public Finances on the adoption of the Senate Act on the Provisions introducing the Act on National Tax Administration, prints No. 989 and 1023. It was adopted by the Sejm on 21 October this year. The aim of the law is to allow for the smooth entry into force of the rules on National Tax Administration. In view of the large scale of institutional changes, it is extremely important to lay down precise implementing rules that allow millions of taxpayers and their officials to find themselves in a new reality as mildly as possible. Therefore, it is extremely valuable that the Senate thoroughly reviewed the text of the Act and, as a result, passed 40 amendments to it. Despite the length of the bill, this is a large amount which, for us Members, should be a lesson to strive for the situation where amendments from the Senate appear as little as possible. In the opinion of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, the most important amendments should be included: First, the shift of the date of entry into force of the Law of 1 January 2017 to 1 March 2017, which we hope will contribute to the smooth transformation of the three existing separate pieces - tax administration, customs and tax control - into one coherent and effective National Tax Administration. Secondly, taking into account that the Customs-Scarb Service is composed only of officers and therefore should make a illustrative statement, alongside the Customs-Scarb Officer, not every employee, but only an employee employed in the National Tax Administration. Finally, thirdly, a clear indication that the head of the tax office becomes a body of the National Tax Administration and not that such an authority is re-created by the law. The intention of the legislator was the continuity of the body, which is the head of the tax office, because it was not abolished by any provision of the law. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Members of the Free and Solidarnia Circle will vote in favour of the amendments proposed by the Senate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u101	Thank you, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I therefore close the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 22 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Public Finance on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Payment Services Act and certain other laws (Prints No. 987 and 1025). I ask Mr Jerzy Małecki to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u102	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Public Finance on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Payment Services Act and some other laws, which is in print no. 987. The Committee on Public Finance at its meeting yesterday considered all the amendments, these amendments were 81, and recommended that 71 amendments be adopted, 10 amendments are proposed to be rejected. Most of these amendments are editorial amendments, so that I ask you to vote in accordance with the recommendation of the Committee on Public Finance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u103	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jan Szewczak will be the first to speak. You're welcome, sir. There's no envoy. In that case, I would ask Mrs Isabella Leszczyna to speak. There isn't any either. Mr Michael Jaros, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u104	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the honour to present, to present, the statement of the Poselski Club Modern about the government bill amending the Payment Services Act and some other laws. This amendment concerns the adaptation of national rules on payment transactions using payment cards to the provisions of the European Parliament and Council Regulation on interchange fees for card-based payment transactions. Following the conclusion of the third reading at the Sejm meeting on 21 October this year. The Act was submitted to work in the Senate, which, after reading the resolution of 4 November 2016, presented its position and tabled a number of amendments. Amendment 81, which I called for during the work on the project in the Sejm, is particularly important. It concerns that a change in the model for the calculation of supervisory costs by national payment institutions should enter into force on 1 January 2018 and not, as the earlier draft law had assumed, after 60 days. This extension of the vacathio legis will allow for a smooth transition between the current model and the planned model to bear the costs of supervision, as we have sought from the beginning. Of the 81 amendments proposed by the Senate, the Committee on Public Finance decided to support 71 of them on the basis of its willingness to clarify and improve the technical and legislative side of the law. Taking into account the amendments recommended, the Modern Club is asking for them to be adopted and, of course, we will vote on the various amendments accordingly. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u105	Thank you. Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u106	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the Senate's resolution on the Act amending the Act on Payment Services and some other laws, prints No. 987 and 1025. The Senate tabled 81 amendments by resolution. In principle, all Senate amendments are editorial, technical and legislative in nature and are more precise. The Senate points out that the definitions applied are harmonised with other legal acts, that interpretation doubts should be eliminated, that provisions should be clarified in accordance with the will of the legislator. Some of the Senate amendments received a negative opinion from the committee, and the club of the Polish People's Party will vote in accordance with the opinion of the Committee on Public Finance. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u107	Thank you, Member. I ask the floor of Mr Ireneus for profit.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u108	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the Government's draft law amending the Payment Services Act and certain other laws, prints no. 987 and 1025. These regulations are primarily aimed at adapting national regulations to European Union legal standards for payment services. They also create a new framework for advanced financial services, which will strongly influence the way in which commitments are paid in non-cash form by a large part of Polish society. It is therefore saddening that, when considering the Law amending the Payment Services Act and certain other laws, the Senate adopted as many as 81 amendments to it. Although the number of amendments is technical and legislative and clear and precise, the number of amendments is extremely worrying and requires greater diligence in the legislative process in the Sejm. Part of the amendments is due to the need to apply the mandatory legislative principles contained in good legislative practices. According to them, it belongs to, among others. A modal verb should be avoided, which is a cancerous function and in the legal language expresses its obligation, so in the light of the principles of law and logic, the modal verb should be included in the normative acts means "must" and therefore further amendments introduced by the Senate were necessary. Here I will allow myself to disagree with the rapporteur from the Committee on Public Finance, who ignored these amendments as editorial. These are fundamental amendments so that they should be taken into account. The Senate has rightly tabled these amendments. The amendments aimed at simplifying procedures for consumers and obliging suppliers to assist them in the handling of bank accounts should be welcomed. It should be borne in mind that digital technologies are the driving force and core of the fourth industrial revolution, in which, in addition to the in-depth automation of industrial processes and global data processing, there is a far-reaching reconstruction of the functioning of modern societies, and therefore the necessary condition for the development of the country, as set out by the Responsible Development Strategy, is the creation of social trust in technologically advanced solutions. Therefore, the provision of safeguards for IT industrial and institutional applications should be at the heart of the financial supervision institutions. Cybersecurity can also become a potential Polish national specialization due to the very good Polish engineering staff in this area. The Free and Solidarni Circle appreciates the government's legislative initiative and the substantive contribution of the subcommittee and the Senate to the process of the bill amending the Payment Services Act and certain other laws, and thus supports the regulations submitted, [[♪ The bell ♪]] signalling at the same time the need to work on cybersecurity solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u109	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Jan Szewczak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u110	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In our subcommittee, which worked on implementing these EU rules, we thought we were working solidly and fairly in line. Draft EU directives are difficult to implement on the Polish market, among others. because we often have doubts about the very translation of these provisions, let alone their importance. This is one of the solutions concerning, you can say, restrictions on the scale of financial exclusion in Poland, i.e. the so-called. Bankruptcy. Of course, the fundamental problem in this law is whether soon it will be clear that what we are introducing, i.e. free accounts, first of all the basic free payment account will be withdrawn in the countries where it already exists, so perhaps we will all work fairly hard, and it will turn out that this direction will change. As far as the Senate amendments are concerned - there are indeed a lot of them - I have noticed that with this type of implementation of EU directives we also have a lot of amendments coming from the finance department itself. Previously we had this with the Bank Guarantee Fund, now there were several dozen amendments from the Ministry of Finance. No wonder the Senate wanted to make comments. Indeed, a large part of these were sequencing issues, meanings, dictionaries, but in the basic structures the bill remained, there were not such significant changes that would change the meaning of this law. She goes in the direction of creating, creating new bank accounts, but you also have to be aware that it is not like with this famous promotion in Lidl, right - clever and cheap - because always such open doors can provoke certain non-standard behaviors. In any case, it seems that the work on this draft law was quite peaceful, substantive and that the proposed solutions are for Polish conditions probably acceptable by the vast majority of parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u111	Thank you. I ask the floor of Mrs Isabella Leszczyna.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u112	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! In fact, the bill we're talking about is a good bill. She implements EU law, the right of every citizen to have a free personal account, i.e. a basic payment account. Even sceptical Members of the European Union must admit that this time the Union has done something good for citizens. This bill could have passed through the Sejm without conflict if it hadn't been for the eternal love of the PiS to the SKOKs. What is it? According to the Directive, a financial institution which does not make a basic payment account available shall pay the penalty. And what did PiS do? He thought that the bank would pay PLN 1 million, and the SKOK would only pay $100,000. Punishment. Of course, we heard a tale of small, good, poor SKOKs and big, bad, rich banks. The PiS members forgot only a few things. Firstly, they forgot that the poor and good are also small cooperative banks, which you have discriminated against for a year in each law, promoting the SKOKs. You may have forgotten that SKOK Stefczyk is several times larger than the largest cooperative bank, you have also forgotten that very many SKOKs very badly managed led to the fact that these bad foreign banks had to put over PLN 4 billion on the table, because the SKOKs very badly failed their customers. It was the banks who put up the money for the SKOK clients because the SKOKs were either mismanaged or they fooled their clients. So the law introduces a good rule, while the PiS constantly promotes SKOKs for reasons unknown to us and introduces rules that adversely affect the financial condition of cooperative banks. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u113	Please take the floor of Mr Blaze Parda.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u114	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There really were a lot of amendments here, 80, but they were first of all small and editorial, small, so we will vote just like the finance committee. The bill is absolutely necessary - we voted it out recently - a free bill for anyone who does not have an account, these five free transfers, as well as a clear contract and clear rules for concluding it, also the website on which they are presented, and you can compare them, fees to bills. I think these are very positive aspects, and the amendments will be voted as in the finance committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u115	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 23 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Law on the Departments of Government Administration and certain other laws (prints No. 990 and 1004). I ask Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u116	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Report of the Commission for Administration and Home Affairs on the adoption of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the Act amending the Law on the Departments of Government Administration and on certain other laws, print no. 990. Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. 54 (1) (a) On 8 November 2016, the Sejm adopted a resolution of the Senate on this matter to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs for consideration. The Board of Administration and Home Affairs, after considering this resolution at its meeting on 14 November, asks the High Sejm to approve the Senate amendments set out in paragraphs 1 and 2. The Commission has unanimously and unanimously delivered a positive opinion on these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u117	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Mr Sylvester Tulayev.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u118	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the report of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the Senate's resolution on the Act amending the Law on the departments of government administration and certain other laws, print No 1004. The Senate proposes two amendments. In 1. modifies the composition of the National Council of the Centre for Research and Development. In Amendment 2, the Senate proposes to delete Article. 23 as a provision amending a non-binding act. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, we support these amendments and vote against them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u119	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Tadeusz Azievicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u120	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I have the honour to present my position on the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Government Administration Departments Act and some other laws, prints No. 990 and 1004. High Seym! I think I am one of the few members of the High House who listened to the discussion that took place in the Senate during the work on this bill. The discussion was interesting, because after the law was passed by the Sejm, information appeared in the media, very important information in the context of assessing the real intentions of the applicants. This information concerned the appointment to the supervisory boards of the subsidiaries of the Gdansk port of PiS-related activists without the powers required by the law. These persons were cancelled after a week from these advices, probably due to the intervention of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping. Less than a month later, Marcin Horała presented the bill to the Marshal's staff - on behalf of the applicants Marcin Horała - a project in which changes concerning the supervisory boards of port-based companies were hidden, changes to the need to have powers, as we know, difficult to obtain by these PiS activists. I said "hidden," because there is not even one opinion on this subject in the broad justification of the project. Since the problem concerns politicians related to the Gdynia PiS, and the applicant of the project was mentioned by the Gdynia Member, the Senate Deputy Marshal Mr Bogdan Borusewicz called the exposed practice I think the case is serious enough to require a thorough explanation. I present this information to the High House because during the work on the bill they were not widely known. The violation of the law by the Management Board of the Maritime Port of Gdańsk SA was revealed after the adoption by the High Chamber of the bill. High Seym! As for the Senate amendments, our club will vote against their rejection. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u121	Please take the floor of Mr Sylwester Khrushch.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u122	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In previous debates I have already said that this way of thinking, restoring Poland to the Baltic, this is a good direction. As early as 2005-2007, ministers Rafał Wiechecki and Marek G grubarczyk introduced this way of thinking. During the 20th interwar period, we steamed to the sea, steamed to Gdynia, and over the past years, since 1989, we have been turning away from the sea. We turned our backs on our shipyards, on our fishing. We also turned our backs on inland waterway transport. Today, hardly anyone remembers that 20% of the turnover of the port of Szczecin was just from the bars, and today we have only 4%. So that we are glad that we are engaged in inland education, maritime education, that we will carry out all minor changes in other departments. Ladies and gentlemen, during the last debate, I mentioned that over 100,000 people work in the fishing industry in Europe. persons. What about us? We're in the big back. 10% world production turnover is linked to the sea. And we turned away from the sea. With the Senate's amendments, as the Kukiz Posel Club15, we will vote for them. I think it's a good thing that the senators have modified the composition of the National Centre for Research and Development and in the article. 23 deleted a rule that was no longer in force. As I have already mentioned, we, as a Kukiz club15, will vote in favour of this law and in favour of these amendments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u123	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchon, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u124	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Poselski Club on the resolution of the Senate of 4 November 2016 on the Act amending the Law on the Departments of Government Administration and on certain other laws adopted by the Sejm at its meeting on 6 October 2016. Ladies and gentlemen! To remind you that this project provides for the creation of ministers responsible for maritime, fisheries and inland waterway transport, the legal instruments necessary for the proper performance of the tasks entrusted to them. The original version of the project included amazing records, among others. a change of supervisory competence with regard to the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, or the assignment of a maritime minister to some kind of consultant in the field of research funding, which could have resulted in permanent blocking of decisions on these measures. There have also been constitutional doubts as regards the regulation on the issuing of implementing acts in the field of transport law. Fortunately, during the procession it was improved. Unfortunately, not all bad records in this bill have been corrected by the Sejm. Yeah, for example. in a project that is likely to become a law, there are still articles written. 6 and Article 6 40. One is a typical stool jump in companies of the State Treasury, while the other is an art. 40, it's a typical staff article. There are still serious doubts about the changes that the project introduced in the education system. They entrust the Minister with power to establish and run public maritime schools, inland waterway transport and fisheries. These schools used to exist, they were inefficient. Unfortunately, this wrong path is included in this project. But there's also a positive change, that's the amendment, the amendment the Senate made. The senators decided to modify the composition of the National Council of the Centre for Research and Development in such a way that the representative of the Minister responsible for Development would not be a permanent member of the Council, but could participate in its work with an advisory voice. Changing the number of permanent members of the Council, appointed by the relevant ministers from 10 to 11 persons, as the PiS did during the Seym procedure, would change the proportion between the three groups there. And I must say that this decision, this amendment, the Senate supported the postulate of the Modern Posel Club, which was repeatedly presented during the first, second reading. During the meetings of the committee, during which the project was examined, it was presented as a reasonable request, as a request allowing the proportions in question to be maintained. In this situation, I thank the Senate. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Of course, the club will support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u125	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Kazimierz Kotowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u126	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We process, we consider, we analyze the amendments made by the Senate - prints 990 and 1004. Respecting the time and taking into account that my predecessors from the clubs discussed this issue, I will inform you that the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party will vote in favour of these amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u127	Thank you, sir. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Margaret Zwierzan.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u128	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Senate has introduced two amendments to the text of the Law amending the Law on the Departments of Government Administration. The first amendment changed the form of participation in the Council of the National Centre for Research and Development by a representative of the Minister responsible for Development. According to its provisions, the number of the Council is decreasing - from 11 to 10 members - and is left to the representative of the Minister responsible for Foreign Affairs. development of the possibility to participate in its meetings as an advisory voice. This change is based on the existing proportions between the current representatives of the scientific, socio-economic and financial communities on the Council and those of the ministries identified who currently have the same number of votes in the Council. Such an argument does not raise our objections, especially since the inclusion of the voice of the Polish Academy of Sciences, which indicated this tendency in the opinion issued for the draft of this law, was advocated in one of our previous positions. The second amendment introduced by the Senate is the deletion of one of the articles of the Act as a provision amending a non-binding act. The Free and Solidarni Circle supports the amendments proposed by the Senate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u129	Thank you, Member. The list of speakers has been exhausted. The applicant's representative, Mr Marcin Horała, asked for the floor. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u130	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Two words of explanation after speaking, in particular, to Mr Azievicz, who was gracious to call me by name. I need to explain a few things to you. First of all, it is not that this law is controversial in local media, because it is controversial in one local medium, specifically in the Wyborcza Gazeta. In cooperation with Members of the Civic Platform, Gazeta Wyborcza is campaigning against this law. It is that what Mr Azievicz or Senator Borusewicz will say is an article about what he has said. This article is linked to and addressed by the Member. On this subject, that he has spoken, there is another article coming up, and so these articles, this action, I would say, black PR continues. She's lying to a large extent. There were a lot of lies there, for example. It was said that I had tabled some amendment that I had not tabled, that the paper had to straighten it out. It was claimed that PiS was supposedly nominated by a gentleman who was to be head of the PiS Youth Forum in Gdynia, who does not belong to the PiS in Gdynia and I do not know this man at all. Such truths, or actually untruths, what to hide here, are designed to build a black picture of this law. In fact, there was one unnecessary disturbance in the port of Gdansk. Unnecessaryly, the President of the Maritime Management Board of Gdańsk approached the legal opinion left to him by the legal services remaining after the previous management board, and on this basis he made a nomination. As soon as there was doubt that maybe there was some confusion in the law on the municipal economy, he made a correction, he behaved, I would say, modelically, and this confusion is explained in the law. There's nothing hidden here, the whole text of the bill is public. If someone can't read, he doesn't understand what the laws do, and he needs a special explanation in his commentary, in his explanatory statement, then I can't help it. This principle, which is so painful for Members of the Civic Platform, is simple that we exclude port management from the jurisdiction of the Municipal Economy Act, because they are State Treasury companies, and the municipal shares in these companies amount to 2% or 0.5%. If the company 98% whether 99% of the capital is provided by the Treasury and 0,5%, 1% or 2% This is municipal capital, is it a municipal company or a State Treasury company? Of course the Treasury. Why such resistance, why such a fight against this bill? Well, the cause is simple. So far, the State Treasury has played a role, with an apology, of a loser who delivers nearly 100% of the capital and gives half of the control over the company. We restore full control of this property of the State Treasury of high value. There is, of course, a main thread of the port in Gdansk, where Mr.Paweł Adamowicz, a politician of the Civic Platform, appointed himself as chairman of the supervisory board, where there were serious irregularities with the privatisation of the Port of Gdansk Operation, where the scandalous behaviour of the President, who, on the basis of a strange interpretation of the property tax, counted 20 million additional taxes to the port and sent a bailiff who took over these funds in the port account. It is only after years that the port recovers these funds by winning in front of administrative courts. These irregularities the Members of the Civic Platform want to defend, they want to prevent them from being explained, they want to maintain control of the policy of the Civic Platform Paweł Adamowicz on the port supervisory board in Gdańsk and hence the attack on the bill presented by us. I've explained it five times from that bleacher. I've translated it for the sixth time. Now, I hope we will accept the Senate's amendments, we will adopt the bill and we will be able to continue working, and the seaports will continue to thrive. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u131	Thank you. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 24 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Infrastructure on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Law on Rail Transport and certain other laws (Prints Nos 1020 and 1021). I would like to ask Mr Arthur to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u132	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the report of the Committee on Infrastructure to the Senate resolution on the amendment of the Rail Transport Act and certain laws. The Senate, after considering the adoption by the Sejm at its meeting on 21 October 2016, introduced the text of 12 amendments to it. They were all of a technical and precise nature. At its meeting of 16 November 2016, these amendments were adopted by the Infrastructure Commission without objection. Mr. Marshal, Minister, High Izbo, the committee is asking for all the Senate amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u133	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Mr Aleksandr Anczynski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u134	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present the position of the club on the Law amending the Law on Rail Transport and certain other laws. This is due to the 12 Senate amendments. The Senate amendments are purely clear, hence the Law and Justice Club fully supports these amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u135	Thank you. And Mr Stanisław Lamczyk, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u136	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I was honoured to present the position of the club on behalf of the Civic Platform Club regarding the amendments of the Senate to the Rail Transport Act and some other laws, print no. 1020. At the same time, the club supports all the amendments that were on the committee today. They were more precise and legislative in nature. As I said at the beginning, we support these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u137	Thank you. Mr Sylwester Khrushch from the Kukiz club15, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u138	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to present the position of the Kukiz Club15 on the adoption of the Senate's amendments to the Law amending the Law on Rail Transport and certain other laws. We have already said many times here that, in terms of the 2014-2020 budget for rail, a huge budget is allocated to rail infrastructure. And we as Poland, the railway industry, in order to make good use of this amount in order to improve railway safety, must also have a compatible, similar right to what neighbouring countries have. That's why we've been working on this bill from the beginning, saying we're behind it. All the subcommittees that worked here, we all carried out this bill in a very short time during a large consultation with the industry. The amendments that came to us from the Senate are tidy, precise, eliminate certain small, unnecessary things that appeared in this bill. The Infrastructure Committee has adopted this proposal without opposition and we, as the Kukiz Posel Club15, will vote in favour of this law and in favour of these amendments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u139	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchon, please speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u140	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the pleasure and the honour to present the position of the Poselski Club in relation to the resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of 15 November 2016 on the Act amending the Law on Rail Transport and certain other laws adopted by the Sejm at its meeting on 21 October 2016. I think it is worth recalling that the submission will have far-reaching consequences for the functioning of the railway market in Poland. The most important changes that will be implemented by the present law concern the position of the President of the Railway Transport Office, as well as the availability of railway infrastructure, the financing of rail transport and service facilities. The provisions of this submission are intended to facilitate the operation on this market of a wider group of operators. That's important information, too. The Senate has tabled 12 amendments. These are clarification amendments on terminology coherence, specifying these provisions. I want to talk about one amendment here, which is valid and very important, I would say, because the Modern Club also talked about it and pointed out that these are very important elements in this bill. In adopting amendments 10 and 11, the Senate considered that the provisions underlying the imposition of fines should be particularly precise so as not to leave room for interpretation. We are very pleased with this amendment, because in the discussion we have repeatedly said that the rules must be clear, clear and simple. And I have this appeal to my fellow Members of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice, but to listen sometimes to the voice of the opposition, because then you do exactly what we say, only in the Senate. The Modern Posel Club will, of course, support the amendments voted by the Senate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u141	Thank you. Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u142	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party will support the amendments tabled by the Senate to the Act amending the Rail Transport Act accordingly and in accordance with the unanimous position of the Committee on Infrastructure. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u143	Thank you. And Mr Ireneus's profit, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u144	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the Law amending the Law on Rail Transport and certain other laws, prints No. 840 and No. 1020. The Free and Solidarnia Circle, following the adoption by the Senate of 12 amendments, reiterates its support for the amendment of this law, which aims to bring national legal standards in the field of rail transport into line with the amendment of European Union law on the creation of a single European railway area. The Senate amendments are mostly technical in nature and aim to harmonise the rules in order to ensure the law's terminology consistency. In addition, the senators have introduced amendments aimed at eliminating possible interpretation doubts and clearly prejudicing that the fees for all the activities of the President of the Railway Transport Office set out in the Act are calculated as equivalent to the euro in zlotys. Furthermore, it was considered that the provisions underlying the imposition of fines should be specific in detail so that they do not leave room for interpretation. When amending the Railway Transport Act, it is worth noting the phenomenon of expanding the area of automation and IT management of the railway network. In our view, we need to start working on new regulations on cybersecurity standards necessary to apply in Industry 4.0 solutions. The strategy for responsible development by Prime Minister Morawiecki, which sets the main role for digital technology in the fourth industrial revolution, needs to be recalled and cybersecurity is therefore a prerequisite for reindustrialising the country, including for modernising rail transport. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Free and Solidarni Circle supports the draft law amending the Rail Transport Act and some other laws, together with amendments adopted by the Senate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u145	Thank you, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. High Izbo! I'm declaring a three-minute break. After the break, we'll join the voting block. Thank you. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 12 mins 18 hours 12 min 21]] I'm reopening the session. We are returning to the examination of item 4 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on the declaration of the Statute of the International Center for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology, published in Madrid on 13 September 1983. We proceed to the third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print No 955. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 955, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 331 Members voted. 314 voted against - 13, 4 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm passed the Act on the Declaration of the Statute of the International Center for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology, drawn up in Madrid on 13 September 1983. We return to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the government draft law amending certain laws in connection with the creation of the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administration. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1009-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Piotr Kaleta to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u146	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The committee at today's meeting recommends... 6 amendments were tabled, the committee recommends rejecting 5 amendments and adopting 1 amendment, which aims to change the date of adoption of the Act. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u147	Thank you. We will vote on these amendments first. In the first amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 9. It's connected to the third amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. The question will be asked by Mr Grzegorz Raniewicz, the Civic Platform Club. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u148	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It was supposed to be a simple bill. Minister, once again, the bill clarifies the changes for the last time. There was supposed to be a change of name, but at the same time at the committee's meeting, several contributions were made during the second reading and several changes concerning completely different resorts than the Minister. Minister, this amendment prohibits PLN 2 million for children. I understand you're in charge of the year, but I don't think it's that bad with the budget anymore, so there's no $2 million for the kids. This is money to eliminate broadband barriers. Schools that have used this money are very often unable to benefit from EU programmes. Therefore, I have a question for Minister Zalewska. Minister, please defend the money that is money for schools. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u149	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 1 and 3 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. The vote was 171, against - 215, with 34 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the second amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 14. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Mr Grzegorz Raniewicz, Civic Platform, has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u150	Minister! That's the second amendment. I don't know if you're aware, but other ministers pull out hot chestnuts with their hands. Do you know that this amendment is being amended in telecoms law and in the law to support the development of telecommunications services and networks without consulting the industry, without taking into account the expectations of entrepreneurs who work in these sectors? Minister, is this supposed to be the silent Seym? It will not be the silent Seym, because the opposition will look at the government's hands, but apparently, if you do not answer, we have a silent government in Poland today. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u151	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 172 votes against - 227, 37 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 23. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Mr Grzegorz Raniewicz, Civic Platform, has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u152	Minister! The rear door shall also be amended by the Spatial Information Infrastructure Board. The members of the council, who have been so far, will not be. Who's gonna get in here? Singers, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Raniewicza.]] Minister, I've always hoped for your honesty and impartiality. I hope that you will at least ensure that this time it will be Pisewicz, who, although to some extent, know the subject, the issues they will advise on. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u153	Thank you. Just please, at least end the question with a question. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u154	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I will begin with the question: Does every bill you prepare have to be a staff law? Whether it's public or subcutaneous, it turns out everywhere you have to kick someone out of the job to take yours. The best example: another law just about the council we were talking about. What bothered you to keep this advice going? If the staff can move from one department to another, while maintaining the continuity of work, why can't the board members go the same way under the same conditions? The answer is one: this advice is simply paid. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u155	There you go. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 174 voted against - 229, 33 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. 24 applicants propose to add a new wording to paragraph. 2 and paragraph 2. 4. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 173 voted against - 234, 31 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. 27 applicants propose a different date for the entry into force of the Act. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. The vote was 341, against - 31, with 62 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Before voting on the whole of the bill, the question is asked by Mr Grzegorz Raniewicz, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u156	Minister! Such fundamental principles of culture require, however, that, if you are a constitutional minister and there is a law that concerns this ministry, at least three minutes can put off the phone and focus on what Parliament is discussing. [[Applause]] You've gone beyond the scope of the proposal, and that's a lot. The principle of three readings has been violated, which leads to the unconstitutionality of the changes made. Minister, are you okay with this? The Constitutional Tribunal has repeatedly drawn attention to this. It's bad practice, it's ruining the law, and it can never be allowed to do that. You, as Minister of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, should look even more at the law in Poland being respected. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u157	Thank you. In the information from the Sejm Analysis Office and the Legislative Office, we have nothing about going beyond the scope of the bill. [[Answer.]] Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u158	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! For some time now the Law and Justice have been practicing such a practice that they are introducing a project in which changes are justified - and so it is in this project - there is a change in the name of the Ministry - and of course such a project should be carried out by the Sejm and agreed with it. Unfortunately, apart from the fact that there are fundamental changes, the PiS puts in such projects absolutely controversial changes which it wants to push through its philosophy of governance. This is also unfortunately the case for this project. You want to do another job on the board, you want to replace your employees, you take your children's money. Such a project, which pursues a harmful policy for the Polish state, Modern can not support. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister a question: Prime Minister, when will you finally finish, when will your government finally finish throwing these HR projects into the Sejm? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u159	We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 1009, along with the amendment adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. The vote was 229, against 182, with 29 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending certain laws in connection with the creation of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. We are returning to the review of item 16 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the governmental draft law amending certain laws to facilitate the sale of food by farmers. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1010-A. We proceed to the third reading. Mr Robert Telus, rapporteur of the committee, has the floor. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u160	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Two amendments were tabled during the second reading. The committees after their meeting recommend that one amendment be supported and the other rejected. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u161	Thank you. We will vote on the amendments first. Both amendments were tabled to the Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Individual Income Tax Act. In the first amendment to Article. 20 applicants in the added paragraph. 1ea propose to allow sales to the operators referred to in Article in the framework of agricultural retail trade. 1c (1) up to the amount specified in the separate provisions. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. The question is asked by Mr Blazej... [[Parda.]] ... Parda, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u162	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday you went crazy and kept the amount free for all citizens at the same level as 10 years ago, and today the next step, and your grace is boundless, because for you the limit and the amount free for farmers from the tax on processed products is all 400 PLN. The question is why applicants do not care about the development of small family, traditional farms, which will prove to be entrepreneurial and hardworking, producing such goods. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u163	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. The vote was 433, 1 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The applicant shall propose to increase the amount referred to in point 71a to 30 000. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Jarosław Sachajko, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u164	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! In the current situation of Polish agriculture, the tragic prices of all agricultural products, the consent to CETA in the commercial part, which will destroy small and medium-sized farms... [[Jarek...]] ...we should act very quickly so that these small and medium-sized farms begin to exist normally. We're cleared for $20,000. $20,000. This is 400 PLN, as my colleague said, of the tax-free amount. We can't agree to another experiment. We have to fight for these farms. The social website asked for 75,000. For a long time, the government said there'd be $40,000 in the project. There's a lousy $20,000 left. And the question is why we do not take Polish farmers seriously, why we continue to agree that they should exist and not start living a decent life. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u165	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 208 Members voted against 226 and 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Before voting on the whole draft law, the question is asked by Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u166	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I'll tell you the truth. [[Voice from the room: Finally.]] You plowed Polish agriculture. [[Touchdown, applause]] You plowed Polish agriculture because why don't you want a Polish farmer to earn a decent living? Why don't you trust Polish farmers? Why don't you want the Polish consumer to finally get healthy Polish food, the best food in the world? [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir!]] Why don't you want that? Minister, Prime Minister Morawiecki, you will lead to the conclusion that farmers will have nothing to do. And if they don't have anything to do, they'll come to you, and you'll be paying their loans. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u167	That wasn't a question. Mrs Ewa Lieder, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u168	Dear Marshal, Dear Prime Minister, High Izbo! In Poland, the legal sale of processed products is subject to certain high requirements. Therefore, small food producers do not participate in this market. But we consumers want to buy such food from farmers and small processors, because it's valuable food. This bill is written badly, on the knee, and all farmers were not heard, even though there was a subcommittee. But because you have accepted an amendment that will allow these articles from farmers to be sold in cooperative and small shops, with great heartache, but we will support this law. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the hall: Ooh!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u169	Please. Mr Dorota Niedziela, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u170	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Minister! Five years ago, what's the rush? An important law, a law that really solves the situation of small businesses, small farmers who will be able to produce, a law that is expected, is it the one we are voting on? He's not, Minister. And please train your ministers because most of these records are not completed. She's started, but she's not finished. Make sure your ministers make such provisions in the regulations so that we can use them. Right now it's just part of a bill that should be made. You didn't take care of your employees to prepare her properly. You needn't be in a hurry. All you had to do was vote her out in two sittings and she'd be fixed. I believe that the Minister should give a little lower grade, or actually a bad grade to his employees. As this is a partial settlement, we will support it, [[♪ The bell ♪]] But it's not a good bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u171	Thank you, Member. We proceed to vote on the entire bill, with or without pain. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 1010, along with the amendment adopted, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 402, against - 37, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm passed a law amending certain laws to facilitate the sale of food by farmers. We return to the examination of item 20 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the adoption of the Senate on the Act on National Tax Administration. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On the agenda items on the examination of the Senate amendments, we will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate amendments. In the 1st Amendment, the Senate proposes among others. delete point 12 of Article. 2 (2) 1. Amendments 5 and 12 connect to it. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. The question is asked by Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u172	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! I have a question for the Prime Minister. Is it true that the Government of Law and Justice was not planning a reform of the National Tax Administration, and what they did and did, and this is the desire they showed, only the Members of the PIS? Does the Prime Minister know, and do you accept that this is another staff bill? Instead of tax collection, you will judge all officials, both in the tax and customs departments, and this is a group of 65 thousand. persons. Does the Prime Minister know that regulations have not been prepared for this draft, which could show what the formula for fiscal reform is? Does the Prime Minister finally know that the government hasn't issued any of these projects? [[♪ The bell ♪]] The decision to support him?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u173	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u174	Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u175	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 1, 5 and 12 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. The absolute majority is 217. Four votes against - 427, two abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the second amendment to the article. 2 (2) Point 17 in the introduction to the calculation of the Senate proposes that this provision should also cover the fight against the offences referred to in that provision. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. The absolute majority is 220. The vote was 3, against - 435, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down Amendment 4 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 3 and 4 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. The absolute majority is 221. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 6th amendment to the article. 52 in the introduction to the calculation, the Senate proposes that the exchange of tax information with the Social Insurance Institution be managed by the head of the National Tax Administration. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 6th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. The absolute majority is 219. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 7th amendment to the article. 74. Point 2 of the Senate proposes that this provision should also apply to slots for gambling activities. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 7th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. The absolute majority is 220. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 8th amendment to the article. Article 82 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 The Senate proposes to delete the words "Notices referred to in Article." Paragraph 83. Two or two. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 8th Amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. The absolute majority is 219. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 9th amendment to the article. Article 86 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 (5) of the Senate proposes that the words "and 2" be deleted. Amendments 10 and 11 connect to it. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is against the amendments from 9 to 11 will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendments. We are returning to the examination of item 21 of the Public Finance Commission's report on the adoption of the Senate's Act of Laws introducing the National Tax Administration Act. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the first amendment to Article. In the implementation of the calculation, the Senate proposes that the National Tax Administration Act should enter into force on 1 March 2017. Amendments 6, 7, 11, 17 to 20, 22 to 27, 29, 30, 34, 36, and 37. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. The question is asked by Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform. [[Voices from the hall: Ooh!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u176	I would ask, Mr. Marshal, to draw attention to the buzzers. And now I would like to say this: Does the Prime Minister know that since 1 March, and for this date you have asked for, you will have to introduce a law on the National Tax Administration, a law not prepared and dealing only with ordering or judging all those who work in this service instead of collecting taxes? Unfortunately, Prime Minister, I have not been informed of the questions asked, whether you simply know what reform without regulations, without tooling, has been prepared by your Members, whether you will be able to deal with such reform and whether, instead of dealing with the collection of taxes during this period, the government will deal with with some officials only considering this and the staff. [[♪ The bell ♪]] arrangements for who is to work in this service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u177	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is opposed to the aforementioned. fixes, he wants to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. The absolute majority is 218. The vote against 433, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. Amendments 2 and 3. The Senate reported it to the article. 4 the amending act containing amendments to the law on enforcement proceedings in the administration. In the second amendment to the article. 17 § 1 third sentence of the Senate proposes that a complaint be brought before the authority referred to in that provision within 7 days of the date of publication of the order. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The absolute majority is 216. Against 429 votes, 1 member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Amendments 3, 12, 13, 15, 16, 21, 28, 31 and 32. The Senate proposes changes of an editorial and legislative nature. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is opposed to the aforementioned. fixes, he wants to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. The absolute majority is 220. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In Amendment 4, the Senate proposes among others. maintain the existing wording in Article. 1 paragraph 2 point 5a (paragraph 2a) c in the Border Guard Act. Amendments 5, 8, 14, 33, 35 and 40 are combined with it. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is opposed to the aforementioned. fixes, he wants to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. The absolute majority is 218. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendments. Amendments 9 and 10. The Senate reported it to the article. 40 Amending Act containing amendments to the Tax Order Act. In the 9th amendment to the article. 56b The Senate in point 1 proposes that this provision should also apply in the case of customs-credit checks. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 9th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. The absolute majority is 218. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 10th amendment to the article. 119i § The second sentence of the second sentence of the Senate proposes that the Council return the case file to the head of the National Tax Administration. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 10th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. The absolute majority is 216. 1 Member voted against - 430. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 38th amendment to Article. Point 263 (1) of the Senate proposes to delete the words "ust.' One-five. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 38th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. The absolute majority is 220. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 39th amendment to Article. 263 point 1 of the Senate proposes to add a reference. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 39th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are returning to the examination of item 23 of the agenda: Report from the Administrative and Internal Affairs Commission on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Law on the Departments of Government Administration and some other laws. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the first amendment to Article. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 (3) and paragraph 1. 3 of the Act on the National Centre for Research and Development of the Senate proposes, inter alia, that the person designated by the Minister responsible for. Regional development was not part of the National Council of the Centre for Research and Development and could participate in its work with an advisory voice. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 1st amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. The absolute majority is 221. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 2, the Senate proposes to delete Article. The 23rd Amendment Act. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. The absolute majority is 212. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are returning to the examination of item 24 of the agenda: Report from the Infrastructure Commission on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Law on Rail Transport and some other laws. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. Amendments 1 to 12. The Senate proposes amendments of a more specific nature. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is opposed to the aforementioned. fixes, he wants to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. The absolute majority is 219. 1 Member voted against - 436. The Sejm accepted the amendments. We are returning to the review of item 11 of the agenda: Report from the Public Finance Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1035-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mrs Maria Zuba to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u178	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! During the second reading of the draft amendment to the Act on VAT on goods and services and other acts in print, 9 amendments were tabled by Members. Today, these amendments were considered during the work of the finance committee and all of them were rejected as a result of the vote. On behalf of the finance committee, I recommend that the High House reject all nine amendments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u179	Thank you, Member. We will vote on the amendments first. To the article. 1 of the draft law containing amendments to the act on value added tax, amendments from 1 to 8 were tabled. In the 1st amendment, applicants propose among others. the other wording of paragraph. in Article 13, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 43. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Ms Genowefa Tokarska, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u180	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The contested VAT Act basically contains two issues: firstly, it raises the rate of tax to 8 and 23%. Second, it contains the so-called. a package of sealing solutions. Question: "Is the government aware that this project is no longer sealing, it is not the elimination of the tax gap, it is simply the entrapment of entrepreneurs?" This project, and many previous ones, carries a great deal of interpretational ambiguities. Today, a binding tax interpretation can be obtained by paying a fee of 20,000. zł. Everybody brings in a lot. various fancy sanctions, and it's not for tax fraud anymore, but for ordinary mistakes, omissions and delays. Does the government realize that they're crossing [[♪ The bell ♪]] the limit of security for our economy? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u181	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. 177 voted against - 241, 2 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment, the applicants propose to add paragraph. Article 4a 96. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will render amendments 3 and 9 futile and delete point 5 in Article. 3. The question is asked by Mrs Genowef Tokarska, a club of the Polish People's Party. Are you an MP? How about Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz? [[Here comes the Member.]] You're coming. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u182	High Izbo! Prime Minister! I will finish my question: Does the government realise that it is crossing the safety line for our economy, that under such conditions we are threatened not only by investment inhibition, but also by the inhibition of development at all, that under these conditions there is no room for even economic patriotism? With this legislation, you paralyze the entrepreneurs and force them to move companies across the borders of our country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u183	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u184	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Question about this amendment: Why do you want to shift responsibility to a maximum of 500,000? zł, for tax obligations on corporate agents? I am aware that in many cases, when it comes to VAT crimes, these are pillars from which you are not able to collect the gold, but there are cases where the proxy of a company that acted well, but fell into some financial difficulties, may be a normal citizen for whom the penalty of 500,000. Evil and responsibility can end in ruining life and bankruptcy. You often want to shift financial responsibility to... [[How often? Give an example.]] ...normal citizens, but sometimes it would be good to consider whether the financial responsibility should not be covered by a group of government officials who make very bad decisions that have a very large financial impact. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u185	There you go. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 2nd amendment, together with the consequence, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 202 voted against - 228, 4 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. [[It's not working, Marshal. We've been shut down.]] But what's not working, I'm sorry? It's working. The Seym works. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] In the third amendment, applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph. 4b added in Article 96. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is raised by Ms Genowefa Tokarska, the club... Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted, 203 voted against 231, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of point 4 of Article. Article 96 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 9. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is raised by Mrs... No, he's not. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 202 votes against 227, two Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. Article 96 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 9a applicants propose a new wording of point 5. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is raised by Paulina Hennig-Kloska, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u186	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The government now wants to remove from the VAT register entrepreneurs who will sell or buy goods from criminals. You think that any such trader should know from whom he acquires the goods and that it is this company that is a criminal or participates in the tax carousel, although tax offices and tax supervision often have no knowledge of the relationship and origin of such persons. The solid responsibility of taxpayers has already collected a harvest in Poland. Today, you want to extend this joint responsibility, not realizing it or realizing it, but not letting it get to you, that really removing VAT from the company's VAT register means the end, because it is a loss of credibility in the eyes of the contractors, and thus deprive the company of the market, and it is a loss of credibility in the eyes of the financing banks, so it is often associated with the company's termination of the loan. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Are you aware of what you can do with this recipe? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[We do, we do.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u187	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 175 voted against - 220, 35 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 6th Amendment, applicants propose not to add Chapter 5 in Chapter XI. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is... We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. One Member abstained in voting 199 against - 225. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 7th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 2 in the inserted article. 112 b. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is raised by Paulina Hennig-Kloska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u188	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This amendment is intended to abolish the possibility of punishing businesses legally operating and paying taxes with an additional tax of 20% for errors in declarations, for slips, underestimations, sometimes for misinterpretation of the rule. These misinterpretations also occur to tax offices, tax authorities. You expect entrepreneurs today to have better knowledge than they often have officials. VAT should be a neutral tax that does not affect liquidity, the viability of the company's activities. He should be paid only in the form of surplus. Today, it is increasingly affecting the liquidity and profitability of individual companies. There are no accountants who wouldn't make mistakes in their history. Do you really? [[♪ The bell ♪]] not enough statutory 8% interest that entrepreneurs make mistakes... Do they really need to be further punished with a 20% burden? [[Applause]] [[Yes, you do.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u189	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 207 votes against 226 and two Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 8th amendment, applicants propose to leave Article. 146a in the current version. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u190	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! On the question, I would like to quote you. I would ask your attention, especially on the right side of the room: Ladies and gentlemen, with this vote we will decide whether taxes will increase again in Poland, this time VAT. By voting in favour, we will vote in favour of expanding the black and grey zone. By voting in favour, we will expand the sphere of poverty and poverty in Poland. By voting in favour, we will reduce the competitiveness of Polish companies, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I propose to vote against. I'd like to ask you, do you know who said that? I can't hear you. This is Mr Jerzy Szmit representing the PiS in the debate on raising VAT in 2013. Ladies and gentlemen, is this political hypocrisy or has something changed since 2013, that suddenly, when you're increasing [[♪ The bell ♪]] VAT, none of this stuff is happening? Please answer me, Prime Minister. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u191	Okay, we've cleared it up. [[Joy in the Chamber]] We'll proceed with the vote. [[The question was!]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. 192 votes against - 225, 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 9th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 117c Act Tax Order. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Mrs Bożena has a voice... [[Mr. Marshal...]] ... Genowefa Tokarska. No. Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Mr. Marshal, with a formal motion, Art. 184...]] Mr President, please don't disturb me, we are voting right now. 428 Members voted. There were 198 votes against, 228 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. [[Now, here's the question.]] The question is asked by Mr Grzegorz Długi, the Kukiz Club15. [[Mr. Marshal...]] Please don't disturb me.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u192	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the PiS! I think of it as betrayal as betrayal of everyone. Maintaining VAT at this level means not only cheating on your constituents, but also giving away a certain thought to the development of the economy. What's the difference between a PO and a PO? There's no difference. [[Applause]] You decided to continue the same line, you decided to continue the line of suffocating the economy. This bill is a good bill, generally necessary. Fighting the mob? Yeah, but not a fight with an entrepreneur. These are basically two different things. You destroyed the good bill with an idiotic record of maintaining a high VAT rate and really writing against the entrepreneurs that we all tried to change in those amendments that you didn't support. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is a big mistake. I beg you, return to the right track where the voters sent you. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u193	Thank you very much. At the moment I inform the High House that our discussions are being listened to by ladies from the village hostels' circle from Wieliczka commune. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] The question is asked by Paulina Hennig-Kloska, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u194	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, If the government doesn't want to answer the Members who are so loud here asking questions, then I'm going to say yes: yes, it's hypocritical. Law and Justice politicians. [[Nice dress.]] [[The corals are nice.]] A few years ago, they yelled out of that speaker that it was scandalous that they would lower their taxes as soon as they came to power. [[They lied.]] They're taking a step exactly the other way today. But, ladies and gentlemen, we know very well that this is a minimum plan. Unfortunately, that's the truth. If, by the end of the term of law and justice, there are VAT rates: 23 percent and 8 percent, it will be a miracle, because today you spend money at such a rate that you are unable to put money in the bag, hence these increases. This law is quite good in many places, but because of the issues that I have raised, which will harm the economy, as well as the VAT reduction issues, we are absolutely unable to sign off on this. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[It's been a little twisted. Paulina, it's gone wrong.]] The Modern Club will never support raising taxes in a situation where we think it is completely unnecessary. You can tighten your belts and start thinking about how to develop your economy, not shrink it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u195	Thank you. Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel, Club Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u196	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I've already been put to the vote on Amendment 8... [[Get in the microphone.]] ...but Mr. Marshal somehow forgot about it. Ladies and gentlemen, according to the current rules, the basic rate of tax from 1 January next year will be 22%. [[Applause]] The State which is the author of this law raises this basic rate to 23%. The tax on goods and services is a consumer tax, an indirect tax. It's so natural that it's part of the price, so we're all gonna pay that tax, we're all gonna pay the higher stakes. What is the justification for the normal economic situation, the normal economic situation of raising this tax? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u197	Thank you very much. I'm just informing the High House that it's an art. 186 and 182 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm govern questions. I allow questions to be asked because I have a duty, one question per club, but the government, the committee's rapporteur, the applicant can, but they don't have to answer. [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: And they do not answer.]] [[They're not responding.]] I encourage you to answer, of course. [[The digger never answered.]] Now you have the floor of Barbara Bubula, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u198	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Question to the Minister: Is it true that the basic purpose of this law is to seal the tax system so that the revenue due to it does not leak out of the state budget? Is it true that under the rule of the Civic Platform, the reduction due to unpaid or extorted VAT was in the order of PLN 50.70 billion? [[Voice from the room: Lying.]] [[Don't tell jokes.]] Is it true that the revenue of the state budget in the first 10 months of this year, thanks to the actions of the Government of Law and Justice, increased by PLN 30 billion in absolute terms compared to the previous year and by PLN 16 billion in tax revenue alone? [[It's a lie.]] This is the law and justice policy. [[Yes, sir.]] Thank you very much. [[Thanks to you guys.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u199	Thank you very much. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 1035, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 224 voted against - 210, 1 Member abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and certain other laws. We return to the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Report of the National Defence Commission on the government draft law amending the Act on the universal obligation to defend the Republic of Poland and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1008-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Michał Dworczyk to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u200	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present an additional report by the Committee on National Defence concerning the government draft law amending the law on the universal obligation to defend the Republic of Poland and certain other laws. The Sejm on 15 November 2016 in accordance with Article. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, re-directed the draft law contained in print No 1008 to the Committee on National Defence in order to examine the application for rejection of the draft law and 18 amendments tabled at second reading. At the meeting of the National Defence Committee today, i.e. On 16 November this year, the committee recommended that all amendments be rejected. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u201	There you go. First of all, we will vote on the motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. The Commission asks that it be rejected and that amendments be rejected. The question is asked by Paweł Suski, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u202	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, PiS will probably adopt a bill creating Antoni Macierewicz's private army. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] A law that in this form will create an almost distinct military existence. We have armed forces that are a little forgotten by the minister. After all, the Minister must extract PLN 1.5 billion a year for the creation of his private army. And we will have a territorial defense, a formation that is not under the service of the General Commander for peacetime time, and an operational commander for wartime, so-called. The time of W. Minister of Defence excludes territorial defence from the chain of command and does so in principle unceremoniously. Antoni Macierewicz creates the fifth type of Armed Forces, which will be subject only to him. Minister, all of Poland knows who you are. You're scared of Poland. We're scared of you too. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Mr. President, please back me up. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] a motion to reject this harmful bill. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u203	Thank you, sir. I encourage the High House to maintain some seriousness. Well, private troops? There is no such thing in Poland. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[It will be, it will be.]] There was a private army in the First Republic. Radosław Lubczyk, a modern club, has the floor. [[The first ones will go to Nowogrodzka to the president.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u204	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Does the Minister know if the Minister realizes that what he's saying and what he's doing are two different things? When is the Minister reliable? If the Territorial Defence Forces are to be the fifth type of Armed Forces, then let's treat them as military forces and allocate enough resources to do so. The proposed amount for the development of this formation is understated. In order to have a national guard called for by the Minister, it is necessary to have adequate equipment for specific money, but if the Territorial Defence Army is to form the Minister, then it goes the way that the Minister planned. Modern thinks that this is not a good way and we are not able to support this law in this form, a law which Poland needs very much, therefore this law must be rejected. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u205	Mr Stefan Niesiołowski, near the European Democrats, has the floor. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u206	The truth hurts, the truth hurts. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, with proper precision and profetism, you could answer this simple question. [[♪ The excitement, the chatter in the room ♪]] Since, in the light of the information from the committee, the media, and the information from the experts, these troops that you create, no defense serves, they have no combat value, [[♪ The excitement, the chatter in the room ♪]] They harm Polish defence, because money is intended for it from other, valuable actually, goals, and the value of it is about the same as the Prince of Monaco's Guard, whether it is true, Minister, [[♪ The excitement, the chatter in the room ♪]] That you are creating a political army, a politician, which will have a certain purpose of gaining votes and political support for the PiS... [[♪ The excitement, the chatter in the room ♪]] ...and can also be used in case your government gets into trouble with society, what do you expect? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Is it true? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Do you think you're creating such a dangerous formation for democracy? [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u207	Thank you, sir. Mr Anna Siarkowska, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u208	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Territorial defence is an inalienable element of modern armed forces whose link to the non-military system has a decisive impact on the effectiveness of national defence. Currently Poland has only operational forces and therefore has no forces at all, which are capable of conducting spatial defence. Today, this project changes that. Yes, it's not perfect, but questioning the merits of territorial defence at all, saying that it's some private army of the Minister, is a total misunderstanding. [[Applause]] And it's -- it's really hard to say otherwise -- bad will. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] Ladies and gentlemen, territorial defence must arise, it is good that it is created, and it is good that it is not subject to operational troops, because many times in Polish history it ended in a disaster. If you knew the story, they'd know it. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] I also hope that soon after we adopt the law amending the law on universal defence duty, [[♪ The bell ♪]] reform of the management and command system will also enter into force, which will remedy certain shortcomings. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u209	Thank you very much. And actually, ladies and gentlemen, we have an explanation. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[He's having a good day today.]] I would like to inform you that our deliberations are being listened to by the delegation of the "Solidarity" delegation with the head of the NSZZ "Solidarity" by Mr Piotr Duda. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] Welcome. [[Applause]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 156 votes against - 280. The Sejm's motion is denied. Amendments 1 to 7 and minority request were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Act on the universal obligation to defend the Republic of Poland. In the first amendment, the applicant shall propose to delete point 3 of Article. Article 11a (1) (a) (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 1. Amendments 3 to 7 and 9 to 18 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Their adoption will result in the unobtrusiveness of the minority's proposal. The question is asked by Paweł Bejda, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u210	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The Polish People's Party submits two very important amendments. The first is that the Territorial Defence Army should be under the command of the General Armed Forces, and the second, however, is important that the Territorial Defence Army should never be directed against the Poles and Poles, our countrymen. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] And my question, Minister of National Defence Antoni Macierewicz, is: Is it true that if we do not vote on these amendments... [[The Huns will come in.]] ... The territorial defense forces will be able to be used against the Poles? [[Bullshit.]] [[Voice from the room: Read the bill.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is a very important amendment to this bill. You used to say take Grandma's proof... [[You guys were the ones talking.]] ...and now you should say, take the razor away from Antoni Macierewicz. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u211	But I would ask your Members to use a more normal and understandable language, not... The razor is used primarily in the hairdresser. Mr Adam Szłapka, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u212	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Minister of National Defence! The army of the Republic of Poland is intended primarily, I understand, to defend our citizens. As I understand it, the Territorial Defence Army is here to vote on this amendment, so the vote on this amendment will be the vote on the truth. Do you want the Territorial Defence Forces to be part of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland, or do you want them to be internal troops, which under the command of Antoni Macierewicz will provide internal peace to your government? So that's the truth vote. Please, Minister, refer to this amendment. Will the Territorial Defence Forces be able to be used against citizens? Because that's what it comes down to. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u213	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 1, 3 to 7 and 9 to 18 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 174 voted against - 265, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In a minority application, applicants shall propose to add point 8 in Article. 11c paragraph. 2. The question is raised by Anna Maria Siarkowska, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u214	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! This amendment concerns a fundamental point. Namely, the commander of the Territorial Defence Army adds... [[He doesn't know the story or understand it.]] ...the basic tasks of territorial defence, such as defence and protection of critical infrastructure, defence and civil protection, and cooperation with the operational forces of both their own and allies. [[And supporting the police in action.]] It is a really very large oversight that these fundamental tasks of territorial defence have not been defined at the statutory level. It is at the statutory level that they should be found, just as it is in the United States. Look, ladies and gentlemen, at the United States Code. The title 32 defines the tasks of the national guard. I would ask the High House to support this request from the minority, and at the same time I would like to address you, Minister, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister Antoni Macierewicz: I am also asking you to support this amendment because it is crucial. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u215	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting a minority request would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 201 voted against 230 and 2 Members abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 2nd amendment, applicants propose among others. not add point 3 in Article. Article 11a (1) (a) (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 1. Amendment 8 is linked to it. We'll vote them together, together. Mrs Bożena Kamińska, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u216	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The Civic Platform wants to save, firstly, the apoliticality of the Territorial Defence Army, especially in the performance of non-military tasks, and secondly, the Civic Platform wants the territorial defence commander to be subject to military authority, i.e. General Commander to whom they are subject in the Land Army room, Navy, Air Force and Special Forces. We ask the question: Why are the Territorial Defence Forces excluded from this law? Maybe it's what the Minister of National Defence said yesterday, Macierevich maniac phenomenon? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u217	Such a permanent suspicion of the Minister, right? Is that it? I see. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Yes. That's what the Minister said.]] Well, we'll have to think about it. [[Macierevich has been banned from speaking after these mistrals.]] But we are voting anyway, ladies and gentlemen. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 2 and 8, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 172 votes against - 263, 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Earlier, you are asked questions by Members. Mr Cezary Tomczyk, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u218	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Minister! You rejected the Platform's amendments, and Minister Macierewicz failed two tests today. The first test concerns supervision. It's supposed to be your army, Anthony Macierewicz's army, and you're not gonna get away with it. [[Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, ……]] The army must be Polish, the army must not be party. [[Applause]] The second test is an apolitical test... [[Bravo!]] ...described by the OKO portal. press. You failed him, too. High Izbo, according to the Act, the priority of joining the Territorial Defence Army is the shooting units. But some of them are like a shooting unit from Krakow, a shooting unit no. 2039 - attention, it consists of members of Falanga and activists of the pro-Russian party Change. [[Scandal!]] Nevertheless, the military supplemental committee asked this unit to name the members to include them in the list of candidates for territorial defence. Enough of that, the Military Property Agency has granted this unit on the street. Rydel in Kraków real estate. Is that a coincidence? Is it a coincidence that [[♪ The bell ♪]] Are all these cases cumulative with Minister Macierewicz? And one last question, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u219	No, thank you very much. There's an MP's voice...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u220	One last question, Marshal. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u221	... Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club. [[Let him finish!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u222	One last question. [[Thank you. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u223	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u224	Territorial defense, yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u225	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u226	The territorial defence cartel - no.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u227	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u228	Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Everyone has the right to defend their homeland, Tomczyk!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u229	That wasn't even a question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u230	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The project creating territorial defence should be serious and responsible, based on a comprehensive vision of the Armed Forces and their potential tasks, should be the subject of political consensus of all political forces in Poland. Unfortunately, PiS treats the project of creating territorial defence in an instrumental and political manner. It lets it into the seym machine - first, second, third reading, without a deeper debate, without a moment of hearing the opinion and a moment of reflection on good proposals. The PiS does not want good for defending territorial consensus on this matter. This is very important from a security point of view of your project and territorial defence should have assigned tasks appropriate to the potential it can generate. By creating a defense in such a way and in such a range, PiS is wasting the defence effort of Poland, PiS is wasting the enthusiasm of patriots to achieve its short-sighted political benefits. ♪ And though ♪ [[♪ The bell ♪]] We think territorial defence is needed, it's such a bad project...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u231	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u232	... The Modern Messenger Club won't support it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u233	Ms Anna Maria Siarkowska, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u234	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! High Izbo! Territorial defence is based on public participation in defending its territory. Unfortunately, this project has only been limited to the creation of the Territorial Defence Army, and this broader context, in particular the links with the non-military system, is practically excluded. There has been no restoration and no introduction of universal defence education, and therefore the Polish state is still not preparing its citizens to fulfil its constitutional duty to defend their homeland. Moreover, this reform also brings nothing in terms of the territorial chain of command. Military districts are not restored, unfortunately no reform of the management and command system has been introduced before, and the potential of pro-defence organisations has not been properly exploited. I hope that the ruling party will pay attention to these issues. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And it's gonna be fixed. Nevertheless, in this form, we support the creation of...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u235	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u236	... territorial defense.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u237	Mr Dominik Tarczyński, Club Law and Justice, has the floor. [[Ooh, now it's gonna start.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u238	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I listen to Polish defenders and I wonder... [[Voice from the room: Something new.]] ...it's weird that 91 billion were for projects, you spent 235 on 14 projects. And what's left? What's left of you? 21,000. Mendeleev's plates. Question, Minister: Do we know what these plates were for? Thank you. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: We need to learn what these plates are.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u239	By the way... [[Defenders! Defenders!]] Okay, but one way or another, we're going to vote on the whole project. [[Such defenders.]] [[Voice from the room: Let him speak.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister of National Defence Antoni Macierewicz will speak. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] [[Something about mistrals.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u240	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is fair to say that the behaviour of Members of the Civic Platform and PSL is understandable. [[Shame on what you've come up with.]] These people have eliminated... [[Yes, sir.]] ...the territorial defense in Poland and put Poland in jeopardy. [[Applause]] [[You're lying!]] These people said that... [[Voice from the hall: Mistral!]] ...for 20 years there will be no war in Europe. These people said we were safe from the Russian Federation. And it happened a month before the Russian aggression on Ukraine. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] The territorial defence forces of the country are essential. Thank you very much. [[Applause, bustle in the hall]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u241	There you go. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 1008, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. The vote was 269, against 170. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] I state that the Sejm passed a law amending the Act on the universal obligation to defend the Republic of Poland and certain other laws. I inform the High House that at the moment our deliberations are being listened to and watched by the Marshal of the Senate Stanisław Karczewski, we cordially welcome Mr Marshal, [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] and head of President Margaret Sadurska's Office. [[Applause]] [[Bravo, Gretel!]] We would like to return to the review of item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the draft law presented by the President of the Republic of Poland on the amendment of the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and some other laws. We proceed to the third reading. The additional committee report shall be in print No 919-A. I ask Mr Jan Mosiński to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u242	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, At its 30th meeting, held on 15 November 2016, the Sejm, in accordance with the Rule. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, re-directed the draft law contained in print No 919 to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy in order to examine the amendments tabled at second reading. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, after considering 16 amendments at its meeting on 15 November 2016, asks the High Sejm to reject all amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u243	There you go. We will vote on the amendments first. Amendments 4, 12 and 13 as far as possible. applicants propose the possibility of acquiring the right to a pension for insured persons irrespective of age, subject to the requirement of a certain length of premium periods. Applicants also propose rules on the transfer of funds collected in an OFE account to a pension fund in the Social Security Office. We will vote on these amendments, of course, first. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Their adoption will result in the futility of amendments: 1, 2, 5, 6, 8, 9, 11, 14, 15 and 16. At the moment, MEPs have asked questions. Mr Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u244	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This amendment proposes that the retirement age be reduced even further than the age of 60 and 65. I would like to remind the High House that the age of 65 for both sexes was recommended by the International Labour Organisation in 1952. [[Why was 67 passed?]] But then it was reserved that, if the condition allows, this age could be higher. Have you considered that in 2040 it will be 88 years, or four generations, since 1952? Did you consider that at that time, i.e. until now, since 1950, the average age of life in Poland has increased by 20 years for women and 17 years for men? Do you consider that in 2040 this law will make 2.5 million more people of retirement age and that the number of people in this order will pay less contributions? Do you know that the cumulative consequences of this in 2040 will be [[♪ The bell ♪]] they reached PLN 50 billion...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u245	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u246	...and that, therefore, pensions will have to be lower by 1/3? Populism is nice at first, but it always ends in disaster. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u247	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u248	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! For the last year and a half, the majority of the Parliament and also the Prime Minister have ensured strategic cooperation with the President of the Republic. You claim that this cooperation will bring a lot of good to Poles and Poles regardless of where they live, from what backgrounds they come from. And we're dealing with a strange situation. In a bill drawn up by the President of the Republic, which respects the solution adopted in the previous term, by the previous coalition, i.e. the reduced age which entitles farmers to retire, you throw away this record. I would like to ask you what you have to say to farmers today as the alleged successors of the Polish folk movement... [[PSL, they raised it by 12 years.]] ... raising their retirement age. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: What do you mean?]] [[You've raised it by 12 years, and now you're feeling sorry for it?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u249	Please. Mr Jarosław Porwich, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u250	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Law and Justice candidate agreement for President Andrzej Duda with the National Commission of the NSZZ.Solidarity, concluded on 5 May 2015, paragraph 2: In a special way, the candidate for President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Duda declares that he will pursue a policy aimed at reducing the retirement age - okay - and linking pension rights with employment. It turns out that the President, apparently, forgot the internship element, which is why in this amendment Kukiz15 is proposing to introduce this element - for men the guarantee of retirement after 40 years of work, for women the guarantee of retirement after 35 years of work. Why? Because it cannot be that a person who has worked 20 years and has reached retirement age receives pension benefits, and a person who has started working at a young age and has worked twice that, or 40 years and has not reached retirement age, will not receive this pension. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's just unfair, dishonest, and hurtful for this group of people.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u251	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u252	My question to Members of Law and Justice is: Can we count on the support of this amendment? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u253	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u254	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The amendment we are now talking about is an amendment of the social side. You say there's no money for it. But what difference does it make? I mean, there's no money for this project at all. Today we pay nearly PLN 80 billion from the budget to pensions. [[Voice from the room: Where did you calculate this?]] Let us mention here an example that is probably the most desirable in Europe - pensions in Germany. I think it's a picture that we'd like to see our pensioners live like retired people in Germany right now. But even though Germany is a country with a budget surplus, they are aware of the times ahead and what today's demographic problems mean, and they are already considering whether to raise the retirement age for women to 69 and 73 for men. [[Up to 80.]] How is it that we want our pensioners to live? Like in Germany, and we're going a whole other way? [[♪ The bell ♪]] When you tell the Poles that early retirement is a hunger pension today...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u255	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u256	...and for future generations it's just a lack of retirement? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u257	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 4, 12 and 13 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. The vote was 55 votes against - 374, with three abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In amendments 1, 2, 5, 6, 8, 9, 11, 14, 15 and 16, applicants propose other rules for the acquisition of the right to a pension for insured persons irrespective of age, subject to a certain period of contribution and to the transfer of funds collected in an OFE account to a pension fund in the Social Security Office. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Accepting them will result in the unobjectability of Amendment 10. The questions are asked by Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u258	Mr. Marshal, the Prime Minister! Minister! High Izbo! This is a very important amendment, because this amendment is expected by thousands of people. Today, Mr. Piotr Duda is in that bleacher. It was a social contract concluded, among others. that people who reach a certain age will be able to retire. The President has also repeatedly appealed and in his programme he said that after 40 years of work, after 35 years of work, if people have a fixed contribution period, they will be able to retire. Today you're breaking this social contract, the social contract. OPZZ also collected signatures and there was such demand. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The social committee...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u259	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u260	...who collected signatures, also...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u261	Thank you very much. Mrs Ewa Lieder, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u262	...supported such a solution. My question to the Prime Minister: Why...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u263	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u264	...you're breaking that social contract? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u265	Thank you very much, sir. I'd ask you to settle in 60 seconds. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u266	Dear Marshal, Dear Prime Minister, High Izbo! This amendment speaks of agricultural privileges, but it is sad that nobody here but Modern thinks of women. Women will be pushed out of the market for early retirement, and they will be starving pensions. Is it true that these 7 years, Prime Minister, will take as many as 43% of women? Retirement? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u267	As I understand it, the Minister will refer to these matters at the end. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting Amendments 1, 2, 5, 6, 8, 9, 11, 14, 15 and 16 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 42 Members voted against - 379, 10 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendments. In the third amendment to the article. 1 point 6 of the draft amending act propose other rules for the calculation of the pension base, excluding persons who retire under the provisions of the Teacher Charter Act and who meet certain age criteria. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The questions are asked by Mr Krystian Jarubas, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u268	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! Dear Members of the PiS! You tell people stories, but people don't believe in fairy tales anymore. [[Voice from the room: Uh...]] You're telling people you're cutting retirement age. What about the farmers? You raise their retirement age. [[Let me see. Let me see.]] Mr. Marshal, please calm your veins. [[Krystian, show me what you got.]] [[Krystian, let me see.]] I quote the farmer, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Mirosław of Warmia: "I am disappointed. The piss promised a lot to farmers, [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] And so far, not much has changed. When it comes down to it, with our problems we are left alone. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, why are you raising the retirement age for farmers? [[Game in the O.R.]] Mr. Marshal, please calm your veins, [[♪ The bell ♪]] 'Cause they're interfering. Why are you disrespecting and disrespecting your own president? [[Come on, come on.]] Why did you fool your allies from the election campaign? I'm talking about unionists, Mr. Peter. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u269	Please. Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Modern Club, has the floor. [[Mr. Marshal...]] Finally, I'd like to ask you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u270	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! Why don't you tell the Poles what this bill is about, why don't you tell them that we're living longer and longer, and therefore society is getting older? At present, for one pensioner, we have 4.2 working, in 2030 it will be only 2.6 working for one pensioner. Why don't you say this reform means for a woman instead of 2,000? pensions will be less than 1300, for a man of 2 000. A little less loss - 1650. Why do you not say that the reform will cost 40 billion by 2019 but 250 billion by 2030? Why don't you say... You say that this is only a law, but you do not say that statistics in Poland show that women are pushed out of the labour market at the time when they acquire pension rights. Most Poles retire exactly when they acquire pension rights. Therefore, by removing the protective umbrella from them, you really push them out of the market, you push them out of the market. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the labour market. Why aren't you saying that this reform is against Morawiecki's plan...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u271	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u272	...because it's really disrupting the demographics in the labour market at all? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u273	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. [[Marshal, Minister Rafalska wants to speak.]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The vote was 39, against - 384, 7 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Amendments 4 to 6 have already been considered. In a further 10th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of the Article. 2 draft amending act containing amendments to the Act on Social Insurance of Farmers. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will render the 7th amendment futile. Mr Paweł Bejda, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u274	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Scientists have shown that two professions requiring the greatest physical effort are miners and farmers. What are farmers in the eyes of the PiS worse than miners who aren't taken from early retirement? In addition, all Polish taxpayers are paid to maintain unprofitable mines, and Polish agriculture and Polish food are still a solid brand in the world, despite the ruining of opinions about it by Law and Justice. Why should farmers alone pay for this good change? According to the Social Security Office, the reduction in the retirement age will cost at least PLN 9.5 billion per year, while maintaining the current rules for agricultural pensions will cost up to PLN 3 billion per year. Why does the government retain the privileges of other social groups at the expense of farmers? That's your right, and that's your right. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is your justice. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u275	That was rather an invective than a question, sir. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club, has the floor. [[Mr. Marshal, let the Minister answer.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u276	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! You have often used the argument that you need to reduce the retirement age because there are professions in which women aged 60 should no longer work. I agree with the fact that there are such professions, only that not all these professions and not all of them have to benefit from pension benefits. There are other benefits that are provided for these persons. It shouldn't be that for a few professions, the state is changing the whole pension system. You guys are really hurting people who are actually getting starving pensions because it's... [[There's freedom. What are you talking about? Anything's right.]] They're gonna get starving pensions because they're gonna be pushed out of the labour market. You know that very well. You're pushing the bill that the next generation will pay for. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[They'll decide for themselves.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u277	There you go. Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u278	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Prime Minister! I will refer to the whole act because there is only one speech per club, although this is the last amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill restores the rule of law. That's what you have to start with, because what the Platform governments did... [[Voice from the room: and PSL.]] ...i.e. they broke the acquired rights, they broke the social contract. [[Applause]] and robbed Poles from the savings of OFE, suitable only for throwing in the basket. You can't really fix everything. We can't fix OFE anymore because it's gone, he's already spending that money. They made it fast for five years. [[Don't lie to me.]] [[Eve, how could you?]] But you have to remember. that, in three years' time, the first post-war demographic increase will fully become a retirement age. The question is, how are we going to deal with this financially? There is still no comprehensive reform of the financing of the social security system. We can vote on anything, but what we're going to finance. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Upcoming demographic collapse? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Good question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u279	Thank you very much. At the moment, the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Mrs Elżbieta Rafalska, is asking for the floor. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u280	Prime Minister! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, PSL Members ask what farmers have done to the Law and Justice that we want to extend their retirement age, and before that, Mr Jarubas spoke about fairy tales. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir!]] Ladies and gentlemen, how much hypocrisy and hypocrisy, like a short memory. This is a bill adopted by the coalition of PO and PSL. Here's an article that clearly says, "The rule of the mouth." 2. shall apply to a farmer who complies with certain conditions by 31 December 2017. What does that mean, ladies and gentlemen? This means that since 1 January 2018, the coalition of PO-PSL to farmers increased their age by 12 years. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir!]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voices from the hall: Disgrace!]] [[Other provisions are still there, earlier.]] Today, you have the audacity to enter this podium, deny it and talk about the fact that we want to extend the retirement age of farmers. It's a lie. [[You have to read with understanding.]] [[The voice from the room: liars!]] [[Voice from the room: 7 years down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, by the end of December 2017, these powers will be recorded, which will result from this Act and the age of 60 for women and 65 for men will apply from 1 January 2018. That's our proposal. [[Applause]] One more thing, ladies and gentlemen. We raise farmers to 1000 zł... [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] ...we're going to apply a valorization mechanism, just like it is in a common insurance system. This is our offer for the Polish village, because we appreciate the effort and effort of farmers. Don't lie to me. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u281	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. The vote was 140 against - 269, 22 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 7th amendment to the article. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2a The Act on Social Insurance for Farmers proposes to extend the possibility of agricultural retirement by 5 years under the conditions set out in paragraph 1. 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is raised by Mr Dariusz... Eugeniusz Trouble, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u282	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Seym! My name is only Eugene, I don't have Darius. That's by the way. I want to remind you, because it's true that the PO-PSL coalition raised the retirement age in general. [[12 years.]] As the only member of this coalition, remember... [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] ...I voted against [[Applause]] raising the retirement age. [[Come here.]] We succeeded, the Polish People's Party, then persuaded our coalitioner, but farmers had the right to retire early by the end of 2017, of course with a reduced... [[After the election.]] ...the size of this pension. But today I don't understand you, my friends from the PiS, I don't understand the president who, a few days ago at the grave of Vincent Witos, created the PiS on the sole heirs of the folk movement. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[It's true.]] Little of this, he also said and thanked the farmers that they supported, because it is true, they supported the Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u283	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u284	And now, as of January 1, 2018, you're raising their age...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u285	Thank you. Mrs Marta Golbik, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u286	...you don't hold on to what was. [[Voice from the room: Get down.]] [[We're going down.]] Mr. President, there's still a chance to reflect. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u287	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u288	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This amendment of PSL calls for an extension of the period of entry into force of this law for farmers by 2020, but this law should not enter into force at all. I wonder if you have checked how it works in other countries, how it works throughout the European Union, what trends are there. There are trends across the European Union in adapting to demographic change and increasing the retirement age. Out of 34 developed countries belonging to the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] to which Poland also belongs, 25 recently decided to increase the retirement age. Ladies and gentlemen! Looking at this bill, I see only one good information: the state is prepared to rule only the next three years... [[More.]] ...because the budget can't stand it and you wouldn't buy it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You would withdraw from this bill. [[20 years.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u289	Thank you, Member. [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal, corrigendum.]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[Voices from the hall: He was, he was.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: We vote.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 145 voted against - 262, with 25 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We've looked into the 8th to 16th amendments. We're going to vote on the whole bill, but before that... [[Voice from the room: Break.]] No, I'm not gonna take a break, but we're gonna listen. [[Applause]] [[Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, ……]] [[Voice from the room: the president is gone, the president is out.]] The question is asked by Mrs Isabel Leszczyn, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u290	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Prime Minister! The government's position for the president's project states that Poles do live longer, but their health is worse than the health of our Western neighbours. [[Then why did you raise your retirement age?]] Given that in the current legal state women's professional activity is prolonged for 25 years, I have a question for the Minister of Health in the PiS Government: Do you assume that in the quarter of the 60-year-old Polka will still be less healthy than the 60-year-old German woman? Then you are preparing some terrible fate for Poles. [[Applause]] What Minister Radziwiłł was doing indicates that it was true, but it had to be warned in the election campaign. And a question for Minister Rafalski. You wrote in the government's position that the Polish market is not adapted to the professional activity of older people. The whole world is building a silver economy, and you're excluding older people from the labour market? And lastly, remember, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that by raising your hand behind this bill, you bring poverty to the next generations of Poles. And don't say we didn't warn you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u291	Thank you very much. Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u292	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The facts are that during the reign of PSL farmers could retire at the age of 55 - a woman, 60 years old - a man. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] [[But you did.]] During the reign of PiS 60 years - a woman, 65 years old - a man. [[Voice from the room: 12 years you've raised.]] [[12 years.]] Raising the retirement age for women by 5 years [[Rise in the room, ring the bell]] And for men of five years. You don't respect the President's proposal. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Mr. Marshal... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] [[Voice from the room: He's lying.]] [[Voice from the room: What is it?]] You don't respect the President's proposal. The Polish village was deceived, exploited and rejected by you. [[Applause]] [[Scandal!]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] You have not accepted the amendment of the Polish People's Party. You voted... [[Your nose is growing.]] ...for extending the retirement age for farmers... [[Disgraceful!]] ...with the Neoliberians of Modern. At least they have such views, and here you have deceived the Polish village. [[Voice from the room: That's a lie.]] As of today, the Polish People's Party starts collecting signatures under a civic project [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm here to talk to you about re-establishing...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u293	Thank you, sir. Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u294	55 years old for women and 60 years old for men... [[What was he picking up for?]] ...in the case of farmers who have worked 30 years. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Why are you lying, Kamyszak?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u295	Thank you very much, sir. Joanna Augustynowska, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u296	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Dear Gentlemen and Mr. Messengers, In a moment, we will decide that Poles and Poles will be able to retire early, but this problem, like in the lens, focuses all the incompetence of this government, incompetence and social and economic... [[The voice from the hall: Oh, my...]] ...shows how you don't know the basic principles of economics. Today, half of pensioners receive a benefit between PLN 1200 and PLN 2000 gross. Once the retirement age has been reduced, this benefit will be 18%. lower for men... [[It is freedom of choice, Member.]] ...and 43% for women. [[Everyone will choose for themselves, ma'am. Everyone will choose for themselves.]] Today, forty-year-olds are wondering when they're gonna retire... [[Voice from the room: Whatever they want.]] ...and what she'll be like, but 20-year-olds realize their contributions today are an IV. [[♪ The bell ♪]] for an inefficient pension system. And they're gonna pay our kids for all this because the budget can't stand it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u297	Thank you, Member. Mr Jarosław Porwich, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u298	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Internship amendments were rejected, among others. by Members of the Law and Justice. I understand: the party is a party, and my heart is bleeding that the members of the "Solidarity" which are members of the Law and Justice have voted against these internship amendments. [[Applause]] Therefore, my hot appeal, the public appeal to the President, so that the President in some of the votes would allow members of the Solidarity Party to vote differently from the party. That's the first thing. [[Game in the O.R.]] And the second thing to remember, ladies and gentlemen. In 2012, because this must also be remembered, it is the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party without public consultation and despite social protests that raised the retirement age. [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] That's what you have to say out loud. I Civic Platform, and Polish People's Party [[♪ The bell ♪]] They threw 2.5 million people's votes in the trash...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u299	Thank you, sir. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u300	...who signed up to organize a referendum on this matter. Let's remember that. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u301	Thank you, sir. Mr Robert Winnicki, not associated Member, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u302	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The discussion that is taking place today in this House is a discussion, you can say about the additions, not the substance of the matter. This means an additional issue for the general failure of the pension system so planned and so functioning for decades in Poland is the issue of retirement age. That's an accessory. After a year of office, why is there some fear in your authority? Why don't you take it, move on to a real pension reform? This system we have now was just as inefficient in the days of the Platform... [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] ...and is even more inefficient in your governments, simply because it is based on the fact that with each generation the number of workers is increasing, and at the moment this number will unfortunately decrease. This is the demographic in Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, the National Movement has been calling for years: the citizens' pension system must start now, raped [[♪ The bell ♪]] introduce in Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u303	Thank you very much. Mr Kornel Morawiecki, near Free and Solidarnia, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u304	High Izbo! Prime Minister! After all, retirement will depend on the productivity, the strength of our nation - pension will depend on it... [[Exactly!]] ...not from how long we'll live, from what contributions we'll make. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] Retirement will depend on it. It's not like you have to retire. The pension bill we're voting on now says you can. [[Applause]] [[Exactly!]] [[Exactly.]] And the sooner you retire, the more it will require of people who are stronger, younger. These young people are supposed to provide retirement and prosperity for everyone. [[But how's the demography?]] And it will depend on how we govern ourselves, how we respect each other. It will depend on our solidarity, not on how long we will live and at what age we will be. [[♪ The bell ♪]] They could have crossed over. The point is that we can go as early as possible, and we'll work as long as we want. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir!]] [[At the age of 30.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u305	Thank you very much. The question is raised by Marek Suski, Law and Justice. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u306	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Listening to all the bullshit he's giving here on the left side of the room... [[The biggest one ahead of us.]] [[Do you know the meaning of that word? It's too hard.]] ...I wanted to ask the Minister just about reducing the retirement age. Will women today who are 50+ and have no job if we lower this retirement age be entitled to retirement - at this reduced age - and finally live a decent life? [[Let's build jobs.]] You're so worried about those people who work and maybe they can retire early... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[When they're 50, they're still ten years old.]] ...then worry about those women you've extended your retirement age and who live at starving rates, unable to find a job, because unfortunately, women at 60 years of age don't want to hire. They're finally gonna live a decent life. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u307	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Mosiński is asking for the floor at the moment. [[Come on, Janek!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u308	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! High Izbo! For starters, the chronology of events, because it is important. The President's project was launched in November 2015. A public hearing took place in December. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, the subcommittee on social policy and family policy, was then launched. At that time, from December 2015 to November 2016, I saw neither Mr Jarubas' activity nor Mr Kosiniak-Kamysz's, nor any other MPs of the PSL... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bullshit!]] ...who would raise their doubts about the bill. That's one thing. [[Because you didn't call a subcommittee meeting!]] Secondly, another request to the ladies and gentlemen of the PSL Members: do not transfer the competition before your electoral congress to the sitting room... [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] ...because the High House doesn't care who will be president of PSL. Don't get ahead of yourselves in folding, giving false information. [[Voice from the room: To the point!]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Shame, sir. Shame!]] To the point. Mr Święcicki asked about health. Mr President, we do not have the ability to know what the health of Poles will be like in 2040, but for today and for the next few years we know that Poles live longer, but unfortunately this health is not the best. That's the problem. Of course, health care, public health and the labour market remain... [[Then invest in it.]] ...who is reluctant to respond to people of this age. Mr Paszyk and Mr Jarubas spoke about early retirements. Minister Elżbieta Rafalska explained this in such a clear way that a student from junior high would understand it. [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: But there are no middle schools anymore.]] You shot yourself in the heel... [[Voice from the gym: You're eliminating middle school.]] ...by making arrangements with the Civic Platform. For what? For a good spoonful of caviar and a holy peace of mind in the ministerial offices. [[Yes, sir.]] It was your main goal, not the interest of the Polish village. [[Applause]] As for the internship - Mr Jarosław Porwich, my fellow Member of "Solidarity', regrets that "Solidarity', members of the "Solidarity' of the Parliamentary Club Legal and Justice voted against. Mr President, once again, the content of the amendment that you tabled goes beyond the original framework of the presidential project and thus becomes a legislative initiative which requires a legislative procedure, namely three readings, and we have considered this in your amendment after first reading. We can't break the law by force. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] We can't break the law. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] This amendment was therefore not accepted. Finally, Mr Kasprzak, who spoke with such an appreciation about Solidarity. Mr. President, who broke the social contract... [[Duda.]] ...by raising the retirement age by cutting 2 million signatures under a referendum request? You've brought over 200,000 to the streets. trade unionists, at one manifestation. Not to mention the other manifestations that were... [[Yes, sir!]] ...in your term of office, PO-PSL, in Warsaw, where you beat us with water and beat us with clubs. [[Yes, sir!]] That was the result of your pro-social, pro-family and pro-union policies... [[That's the report?]] [[Mr Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska: But this is the rapporteur.]] ...and today you have the audacity to talk about us cheating on Solidarity. [[Applause]] [[What's this?]] Mr President, due to your older age... [[Mr. Marshal, what is this?]] ...I'll finish this argument so I don't touch your age. I am speaking to Mr Kasprzak. [[Voice from the Chamber: You are the rapporteur!]] [[Debate or report?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u309	Mr President, just act as rapporteur for the committee and not as a polemist.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u310	I'm almost done, Marshal. Mr Bejda, do not share the Poles. That's what the communists have done... [[This is not a report. What's this?]] ...in the years of the Polish People's Republic. You divide Poles into farmers, miners, better and worse. It's not right for a politician... [[Voice from the room: Get to the point.]] ...of a class like you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u311	Thank you. He's gonna take the floor right now... [[Voice from the Chamber: We vote.]] [[Chief of all the bosses.]] ...Chief of the President's Office of the Republic of Poland, Mrs Margaret Sadurska. [[Applause]] [[Bravo, Gretel!]] [[Greens, sit down.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u312	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, It's a big day... [[Green weed.]] ...for the President, because today is the day on which the President's declaration from the election campaign about reducing the age of the Poles' retirement became a fact. [[Applause]] The President listens to people's voices. He listened to people's voices, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] who called for the retirement age, arbitraryly, forcefully... [[It's a good thing he's listening.]] ...imposed by the previous government, it's been lowered. But, ladies and gentlemen, at first, the chronology of events. [[Voice from the room: That's already been done.]] It was, but it's worth remembering. In 2012, a government project - to represent the project was appointed Minister of Labour and Social Policy - imposed a higher retirement age for Poles, 67 years for women and men. [[In 2040!]] Work in the Sejm on this project lasted less than a month, from 20 April to 11 May 2012 - without any thought, by force, without listening... [[What do you mean?]] ...in the voices of Poles. The law began to apply as of 1 January 2013. President Andrzej Duda, then the candidate, during the election campaign announced that he would submit a bill which would reduce the retirement age, the retirement age, which would make Poles not be forced to work until 67 years of age, but will also... [[What? We don't like work?]] ...a guarantee about this and a chance for those who feel at the strength that the state of health allows them to work longer. [[The labour market needs to be understood a little.]] That is why, as early as the second half of August 2015, listening to the voice of Poles, the President made a decision, asking the Senate to hold a national referendum in which one of the questions would concern whether we want to reduce the retirement age. It was one of the referenda questions. Then the Senate, where the majority had the Civic Platform, rejected this request. Mr President submitted the first bill in the Seym of the previous term, at the end of September 2015. The Sejm did not start working on this project, even though he worked less than a month on extending the retirement age. Once again, the President submitted the project on 30 November 2015. That's the chronology. Now, ladies and gentlemen, by answering some of the questions that were... [[But no one asked you questions.]] ...which have been reported. The basic question concerned pensions for farmers. The 2012 Act introduced two principles: firstly, it extended the retirement age to 67 years of age, and secondly, it started to expire early retirement. [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: Mr President wanted to extend.]] She started erasing her early retirement. That is what you, Minister - it was a government project - agreed, because it was not an accident drop, it was not an amendment tabled during parliamentary work. This recipe was in the bill from the beginning, that until December 31st... [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: Yes.]] ... Farm pensions will be extinguished in 2017. So don't tell me... [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: Mr President wanted to extend.]] ...that at this point there is an extension. At this point in the case of farmers, the retirement age is reduced... [[Applause]] [[Is the cocoa clogged?]] ...up to 65 years for men and 60 years for women. Ladies and gentlemen! Like I said, it's an extremely important day. I ask Members to support the President's initiative. I ask Members to support the position of the government which has given a positive opinion on this project. I would ask Members that this project, which is at the front of the citizens... [[Voice from the hall: Front.]] ...who respects the right of citizens to listen to the voter's voice has been respected. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Mr. Marshal, you're welcome - correction.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u313	Thank you, Minister. I don't allow, ladies and gentlemen, to... Mr Jarubas, I ask you to leave the speaker. [[You lie, ladies and gentlemen, you lie.]] Mr Jarubas has no right to be corrected. Please read the article. Paragraph 184. 2. [[Mr. Marshal, I was mentioned.]] Formal proposals, ladies and gentlemen, will be accepted after the vote. At the moment, the President of the Council of Ministers, Ms Beata Szydło, asks for the floor. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u314	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Exactly a year ago on November 16 during my exposé, an exposé presenting the programme of the Government of Law and Justice, I declared that the Government of Law and Justice would reduce the retirement age of Poles. It will reduce the retirement age of Poles, will return to the previous retirement age, because we declared this in the election campaign because it was our duty, because that was finally social justice, because as it was already raining here from this speaker, the government of PO and PSL against citizens, without public consultation, raised Poles' retirement age - against citizens. [[It's not true that without consulting.]] [[But for the sake of Poland.]] And then after that vote, it was our first electoral declaration made by Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński, and then he said, [[Applause]] That when the Law and Justice rule, we will restore the previous retirement age. And then this declaration was sustained by President Andrzej Duda. And then she was sustained by... [[Voice from the O.R.: Go all the way.]] ...the rule of law and justice. And today I can say with satisfaction, and I want to say this to Poles and Poles: We have kept our word. [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] We kept our word. [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice rise, applause]] Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Duda kept his word, kept his word Law and Justice and kept his word to the government of the Republic of Poland. We restore social justice to Polish citizens. [[Applause]] [[What retirement?]] But also, ladies and gentlemen, in those 12 months we have kept the word we gave in the election campaign, saying that we will support Polish families. [[Voice from the room: supposedly.]] We have introduced a 500+ family support programme, including: because we do not want to build a silver economy, we want to build a new, modern economy and we want children to be born in Poland. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] [[Yes, sir.]] We kept our word, took care of the seniors, introduced the 75+ program, gave the possibility to those seniors who have very low pensions to receive free drugs. [[Oh, God, look at that.]] But we have also taken care of pensioners, and it is to a large extent those who live in the countryside who receive agricultural pensions. [[We live in two parallel universes.]] From next year, from 1 January the lowest pension in Poland will be at least PLN 1000. The state allowed it to be 882 PLN 64 gr. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir!]] [[How can she not be ashamed to tell such things, to lie?]] We kept our word by putting in support programs... [[Ask the pensioners how much you gave them.]] ...for Polish entrepreneurs, employees, families. We kept our word by reforming the Polish school, restoring the right of parents to decide... [[What are you talking about, woman?]] ...about when their kids are supposed to go to school. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Choice.]] It's the law that the government of PO and PSL took away from their parents. We have kept our word by preparing and introducing education reforms. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] The laws are already in the Seym. [[Bravo, bravo, Prime Minister, great.]] We kept our word, we're gonna... [[Bravo, you.]] ...built an 8-year-old elementary school and a 4-year high school, and well... [[Go out to the teachers on strike.]] [[There's still free drugs.]] ...prepared vocational schools. [[Applause]] And we finally kept our word, ladies and gentlemen, because we gave the Poles what they wanted most - we returned their country to them, we counted on their voice and above all... [[Members of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Platform chant: Teddy bear! Teddy bear!]] [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have taken care of the affairs of ordinary Poles. [[Voice from the hall: Thieves! Thieves!]] We restored the Poles' sense of dignity and stability. We dealt with matters of ordinary Poles, not, like the previous government, matters of political elites. [[Applause]] [[Raising taxes.]] And this is the first step that made Law and Justice, taking responsibility for our homeland. Now it's time for another one. Now it's time to take a step towards responsible development. [[The constitution.]] And that will be a government priority, a law and justice priority in the years to come. [[Applause]] Poland will grow faster, Poland will grow dynamically. [[Yeah, 2.5%.]] Finally, the Polish economy will be subjective. We will build Polish capital... [[Room voice: 2.5% of GDP.]] ...and we will make sure that Poles can fulfill their... [[Teddy bear!]] ...ambition and dreams. [[Party, piss Poles.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I should also reassure our fellow countrymen and say that all the reforms we are introducing, including pension reform... [[They're on credit!]] ...have full budget security. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Yes, sir.]] [[You really don't know you're lying?]] I know that Members who are in opposition clubs today, and who until recently were responsible for public finances, are not in the mind that the tax system can be sealed. [[Lie!]] [[Right.]] At the moment, we have already received more than PLN 10 billion in taxes to the state budget... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] ...than when you were in charge in the same year. [[Why are you raising taxes?]] [[Listen to the way you're bossing around.]] We will follow this path of reform, the path of responsible development, consistently... [[Don't go that way.]] ...and we're not going back that way. We will introduce all these changes to which our countrymen, Polish citizens, and which the Polish state needs, have authorized us to do. We will introduce these reforms because there is nothing more valuable than our homeland and the future of Poles. [[Applause]] [[Bravo.]] But I also have a proposition for you from the opposition clubs. [[Oh, dear.]] I think it's above all that. is the expectation of our citizens who want to finally take care of their affairs, to take care of Poland, to respect their homeland. Let us follow this path of responsible development together. Let us carry out the reforms that Poles are waiting for. Consider whether your mandate, which you have received from your citizens, is a mandate that entitles you to take care of their affairs, to take care of Poland... [[We do, we do, the Prime Minister.]] ...or is there a mandate that entitles you only and exclusively to specific political interests, to accuse and slander your homeland in the international arena. [[Applause]] [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: Well, Prime Minister...]] It's gotta stop. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Ladies and gentlemen, together we can really meet a lot of ambitious plans and projects that our fellow countrymen expect. We can first of all realize it's a great dream, which is Poland. It depends only on all of us. I encourage you to follow the path of responsible development, because it is about Poland, it is about matters of Poles and Poles. [[But you're going the other way!]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have kept our word - the Government of Law and Justice, Law and Justice, Mr President - and we will keep our word for the years to come... [[Voice from the room: everyone scared.]] ...in fulfilling these plans, these projects that Poles expect. I would also like to thank all of you today for this year's work: Mr Marshal, at the hands of the Marshal of the Senate also to the senators, Minister Małgorzata Sadurska for her cooperation with the law firm, and I ask you to convey these thanks to the President. [[Applause]] I want to thank my colleagues, my Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. [[Applause]] [[Thank you, thank you!]] For your support and for the fact that we can always count on you. [[Yes, sir!]] I also want to thank the opposition clubs. I thank you for this year's work, for the discussion and also for the criticism, because the true virtue of the critic is not afraid. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir!]] [[Misiewicz's virtue.]] And smart power, smart government knows... [[Smart power...]] ...that constructive criticism can only help and not harm - but constructive, therefore I ask you, if you do not want to go along with us on the path of responsible development, you do not want to think positively about our country, at least do not interfere with these good changes. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir!]] But first of all, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Poles and Poles, our countrymen... [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] ...for the fact that we can count on you to support us. [[Applause]] We keep our word and keep our promises. Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice rise, applause]] [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice chant: Beata! Beata! Beata!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u315	Thank you. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. [[We're bringing the draft back to the army!]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 919, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the room: Uh...]] 430 Members voted. 262 voted against 149 and 19 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and some other laws. [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice stand up, show the sign "V', applause]] I'm ordering a three-minute recess. [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice chant: Solidarity! Solidarity! Solidarity!]] [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 14 minutes 30 hours 14 min 47]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 25 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Civil Procedure Code Act (Print No 932). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr. Łukasz Piebiak to present a bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u316	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill is not complicated, it is very short. I'll try to brief him. First of all, the purpose of the project. The need for legislative work is due to the need to comply with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 22 September 2015, sygn. Act SK 21/14, in which the Court held that Article. 418 c.p.c. in so far as five years after the judgment has become final, it does not allow for the reopening of proceedings on grounds of nullity resulting from the infringement of the Article. Article 6 (6) (a) 1 The Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms is incompatible with Article. Article 77 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 in conjunction with Article. Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Constitution of the Republic of Poland. The Court has deferred the existing standard by 18 months, which means that the contested provision will expire on 3 April 2017. In that judgment, the Court held that the expiry of the 5-year period provided for in Article. 408 c.p.c. It definitively closes the judicial path to reopening proceedings and blocks the possibility of repealing a judicial decision in the event of a citizen's complaint. It is also important that proceedings before the European Court are generally long-term, so it may happen that the 5-year period referred to in Article. 408, before this international legal protection authority gives a final decision authorising it to lodge a complaint concerning the reopening of proceedings. Solutions proposed by the Ministry of Justice on behalf of the Government: Article. 1 of the proposal to amend the article. 408 c.p.c. extending the 5-year period provided for in this provision by setting a 10-year deadline in its place in all cases where the 5-year period is currently in force, without limiting this amendment only to a case which has been the basis of the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights. This solution was based on the assumption that the introduction of a separate pre-emptive period to resume proceedings only in a case where the grounds for renewal are based on an infringement of the ECHR Convention, would be an asystemic solution for the regulation of the reopening of proceedings. This implies that the grounds for reopening the procedure should only be those reasons for the violation of the Convention as stated in the ECHR judgment, which have already been identified in c.p.c. as grounds for renewal. Consequently, it is not the ECHR's judgment itself that should be the basis for the renewal, but only as a result of the conclusion that the ECHR has infringed the Convention can a specific basis be established for the renewal resulting from k.p.c. The ECHR case law covers various cases of infringement by a court, in particular infringements of other rights and freedoms arising from the Convention, such as freedom of expression, guaranteeing the protection of property. In some cases, judgments declaring an infringement of the Convention are not at all enforceable by the institution's use of reopening proceedings. An example of the most common situation here is an effective complaint about not knowing the case within a reasonable period of time. In other cases, an infringement identified by the ECHR may result from incorrect national legislation contrary to the Convention. A legislative initiative to amend national law and to bring it into line with the Convention would then be appropriate. In turn, if the origin of the violation of the Convention was not the direct action of national legislation in conflict with the Convention, but a judicial decision, then in certain cases the appropriate instrument may and should be different from the action for renewal, measures such as an action against enforcement or an action for the annulment of a final judgment or an action for damages against the State Treasury for the so-called so-called. It's a court-ordered delusion. These legal measures should be used. Then it is not necessary to refer to the institution to resume the procedure. In any event, it is not necessary, from the point of view of the Convention's requirements, to introduce a basis for renewal because of the ECHR judgment itself. This implies that when assessing the scope of the law protected by Article. Article 6 (6) (a) 1 of the Convention, account must be taken of the possibility of conflicting the legal situation of entities which are parties to a civil case in which there has been a breach of the right to a fair trial by a court. Following the removal of the effects of an infringement protected by Article. Article 6 (6) (a) 1 of the Convention could result in a further infringement of the Article by reopening the procedure. Article 6 (6) (a) 1, except that in a different form and against the other side of the civil case. This in turn would violate the principle of protection of acquired rights and the principle of legal certainty linked strictly to the consequences of the finality of the judgment. For these reasons, the project, which I have the honour to present, is implementing the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, which I have already mentioned, precisely by extending the time limit for the reopening of proceedings completed by a final decision of a civil court, universal, and not by introducing a separate basis for the renewal of the ECHR judgment. The project is in fact limited to changing the length of the deadline, to introducing a time limit by adopting a 10-year deadline for all cases where the 5-year deadline is currently in force. It is necessary to limit the timely possibility of reopening proceedings as the final judicial decision should become completely stable. The proposed time limit, i.e. 10 years, takes into account the value of the validity of judgments, ensures the stability of civil law relations established on the basis of final judgments of civil courts, but also guarantees the right to resume civil proceedings within a reasonable and realistic period also to the addressees of judgments of the Court of Human Rights. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 2 of the draft is expected to apply to cases in which by the date of entry into force of the amendment the five-year period has not expired since the decision has been valid. Thus, the 10-year term would apply pro futuro to the legal situation at the time of the entry into force of the Act, which corresponds to the classic regulation of tempus registr actum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u317	Thank you, Minister, The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Waldemar Buda, Law and Justice have the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u318	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I am pleased to present my position on the government project in Sejm No. 932 concerning the amendment of the Civil Procedure Code. Indeed, this amendment has been somewhat forced by the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal, which pointed out that the 5-year time limit for the renewal of proceedings following the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights is too short and does not, in many cases, give a chance to amend the judgment, but it must also be borne in mind that this project goes much further. This project entails a significant extension of the deadline, up to 10 years, also for any other grounds for reopening the procedure. I think this is much more important because we are dealing much more often with situations where someone is trying to keep this term, today 5 years old, on other grounds than the ruling of the European Court of Human Rights. We have many examples here, for example, of criminal proceedings extending or initiated very late in relation to civil judgments. This will be decided much later than within 5 years of the decision taken by a civil court, which is why we are very positive about this change. It does not argue with the stability of judgments and certainly with the law, because we should aim to bring as much as possible the judgments of the righteous, the judgments of the law-abiding, the judgments of the law-abiding. So if we have a situation where there are grounds for finding that the judgment is unlawful, that it is incorrect, then formal requirements, such as time limits, should not stand in the way here. As regards the case which was the basis for the adoption of the Constitutional Tribunal's ruling, it should be pointed out that the proceedings before the European Court of Human Rights in that case lasted more than four years, so this shows that it is clearly necessary to extend that period, especially since the application itself is six months old, so that in principle is completely exhausted by the current five-year deadline. The introduction of a 10-year deadline for reopening proceedings on the basis of rulings of the European Court of Human Rights, but also in any other case, is very positive. Law and Justice will support the project and request that it be further examined within the codification committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u319	Thank you very much. Mr Zdzisław Gawlik, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u320	Mr. Marshal! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform wanted to present its position on the proposal for a law amending the Civil Procedure Code Act, print No 932. It should be noted that the problem which is being addressed in this amendment concerns the law's taking into account the effects of the passage of time. Many years ago, many centuries ago, legislators saw that the passing of time was not meaningless to the law. The institution of pastity has been present in the law for many centuries, but, as can be seen during the analysis of various legal solutions, the time which is given to parties - civil law entities, and not only civil law, to exercise their rights is reduced. This is a consequence of changing the pace of life, bringing new ways of communicating, especially at a distance, into human activity, and this must be noticed and seen at this point. Article 4 is replaced by the following: 408 The Civil Procedure Code in its present form closes the way to the courts of those who seek to reopen the proceedings 5 years after the judgment has been enforced. This five-year period, the pre-emptive term does not deprive the parties of the right to take certain actions in two cases: firstly, if they were deprived of their ability to act, and secondly, in the second case where they were not properly represented. But as the Constitutional Court's judgment shows, that's not enough. Against the background of the provision of the article. 408 The Code of Civil Procedure can be seen as a conflict of two interests: firstly, the continuity of judicial decisions, which favours this 5-year period laid down in the provision of the Article. 408 Code of Civil Procedure, and the right of the party to a fair trial, which is guaranteed inter alia. in Article 5, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 One of our constitutions. There is therefore a dilemma, which is more important: leaving a defective judgment in legal circulation or giving the citizen the right to a fair judgment. It seems that a fair solution should be sought in this area, and this is where the proposed amendment of the Article is headed. 408 Code of Civil Procedure. But in the current situation, according to the wording of the article. 408 Code of Civil Procedure, 5 years after the judgment was passed, the current wording does not allow for the reopening of proceedings on grounds of nullity resulting, inter alia. the infringement of Article. Article 6 (6) (a) 1 of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and the Citizens. The Constitutional Tribunal considered that this provision was incompatible with the Article. Article 77 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 in conjunction with Article. Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland, and thus - as mentioned earlier - will lose its power after 18 months. The proposed amendment therefore extends the 5-year period provided for in Article. 408 and replacing it with a 10-year term. This procedure has among others. allow the parties to proceedings before the European Court of Human Rights to request the reopening of the main proceedings at the end of the proceedings before the European Court, which is generally - and also mentioned - of a rather lengthy procedure, as a result of which, pending the European Court's decision, the parties would lose the possibility of reopening the proceedings in the main proceedings in view of the expiry of time. During the consultation work, comments on the proposed amendment were made, inter alia. The National Judicial Council and the Supreme Court, which suggest the conduct of the provision of the Article. 408 Code of Civil Procedure for the 5-year term and proposed in the revision of the article. 408 extending the deadline to 10 years is proposed only to refer to the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights. That is to say, this gateway, which is provided for by the current wording in two cases allowing the parties to resume the proceedings, is extended by this third case relating to the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights. Leaving a 5-year deadline for cases that will end before national authorities would ensure the stability of the decisions issued, and that is, I think, an important value in itself. Hence, about the club. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Civic Platforms, we ask you to present this law for further work in the codification committee and to try to reflect on the proposed amendment of the article. 408 Code of Civil Procedure. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u321	Thank you very much. Mrs Barbara Dolniak, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u322	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Art. 408 The Code of Civil Procedure is incompatible with Article. Article 77 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 in conjunction with Article. Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1st Constitution. This is what the Constitutional Tribunal ruled in its judgment of 22 September 2015. SK 21/14. The Constitutional Tribunal has held that non-compliance is to the extent that, 5 years after the judgment has become final, it cannot be requested to reopen proceedings on grounds of nullity resulting from the infringement of the Article. 6 of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, as finally decided by the European Court of Human Rights. In its statement of reasons, the Constitutional Tribunal indicated that it was a pre-emptive term in the Article. 408 The Code of Civil Procedure shall be restricted by those applicants who have brought an action for the reopening of proceedings in order to comply with the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights and have based themselves on the nullity referred to in Article. 401 point 1 c.p.c. At the same time, the Constitutional Tribunal pointed out that they were not limited by those complainants who, in order to comply with the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, based their actions for reopening proceedings under the circumstances set out in the Article. 401 point 2 c.p.c. In the view of the Constitutional Tribunal, such differentiation of the status of complainants is incompatible with the principle of proportionality of the restriction of civil liberties and rights resulting from the Constitution. In addition, the Constitutional Tribunal stated that the five-year time limit for bringing an action for reopening proceedings was too short and therefore the existing provision constitutes an excessive restriction of the right to court. Art. 408 c.p.c. in the version proposed in the draft does not remove this non-constitutional proportionality of the different legal situation of the applicants. The ten-year deadline will continue to limit those applicants who, in their action to reopen proceedings for the execution of the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, have based it on the nullity referred to in Article. Point 401 of the CR Code, and at the same time it will not be restricted by the complainants who have relied on the complaint under Article. 401 point 2 c.p.c. Therefore, it can be expected that the proposed provision will be considered to be contrary to the Constitution. The amendments proposed in the draft go much further than the Constitutional Court's judgment indicates, as they cover the issues that the Constitutional Tribunal has decided on, as well as introduce a general rule on the change of 5-year term to 10-year term. In addition, the draft provides for the possibility of applying a 10-year period to cases completed before the entry into force of the amendment to the law. This is a solution that can reconcile the principle of certainty of judicial decisions. Instead, it seems that it would be better to accept the arguments set out in the statement of reasons of the Constitutional Tribunal's judgment and to introduce - separate from those currently laid down in the Article. 408 c.p.c. limitation by a binding date - entitlement to bring an action for reopening proceedings on grounds of nullity, the reason for which would be an infringement of the Article. Article 6 (6) (a) 1 of the Conventions established by the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights. The justification of the project shows that it is an asystem solution and cannot be accepted. C.p.c. there are solutions which refer directly to the judgments of a particular court: Article. 401, Art. 4 c.p.c. In its judgment, the Constitutional Tribunal suggested extending the statutory conditions for reopening proceedings to all cases of breaches of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, but only a separate regulation of the time limit thus limiting the possibility of bringing a complaint motivated by such an infringement. Article 6 (6) (a) 1 of the Conventions at the disposal of Article. 401 c.p.c. It also follows from the justification of the project that such a change would introduce new grounds for reopening the procedure. That's wrong reasoning. Based on the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal and taking into account the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, conclusions can be drawn: a 10-year period is sufficient for the handling of a complaint by the European Court of Human Rights and if the suggestion of the Constitutional Tribunal is to be applied from the grounds cited above. the judgment, it seems that it would be better to introduce a shorter period of time, which runs from the time when the European Court of Human Rights issued a judgment declaring an infringement. I hope that, during the work of the committee, we will be able, Minister, to discuss and work out a solution that it will actually regulate in accordance with the law. [[♪ The bell ♪]] this issue and at the same time will not differentiate the parties on a case-by-case basis and threaten to be unconstitutional. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u323	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Zwierzan, Free and Solidarni have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u324	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the government draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure Act. The purpose of this amendment is to implement the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 22 September 2015. In that judgment, the Court held that it was referred to in Article. 408 The Code of Civil Procedure of 5 years, the expiry of which definitively closes the judicial path to the addressee of the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights to resume civil proceedings on grounds of nullity resulting from the infringement of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights, is incompatible with Article. Article 77 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 in conjunction with Article. Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Constitution of the Republic of Poland. According to the projectors, it is therefore appropriate to extend to 10 years the five-year period from the enforcement of the judgment to the lodging of a complaint for reopening the procedure. It is important that this amendment is intended to cover all cases where a 5-year period is currently in force, without identifying cases of reopening due to judgments of the European Court of Human Rights. According to the Supreme Court and the National Judicial Council, the extension of the period during which a reopening of proceedings may be requested should apply only to the addressees of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights. However, according to the applicants, the Polish provisions on the reopening of proceedings do not distinguish the renewal of the European Court of Human Rights' infringement of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights, so there is no basis for such separation to be introduced only as regards the time limits for lodging the application for renewal. The stability of the Polish case law, the confidence of citizens in the state and the ability of citizens to assert their rights in the event of their right are extremely important in the state of law. Therefore, the Free and Solidarni Circle supports the government bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u325	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to join us, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Time - one and a half minutes. Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u326	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The extended 10-year period will apply to cases in which a 5-year period has not expired until the date of entry into force of the amendment, calculated on the basis of the validity of the judgment. Wouldn't that be contrary to the article? 2nd Constitution, which requires the legislator to shape legislation which will foster the extinction of uncertainty over the period of time of the legal situation of individuals? For example, at the time of the decision's validity before the date of entry into force of the amending act, the entity could not assume that the period during which the application for renewal is not admissible would be extended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u327	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please address the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr Łukasz Piebiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u328	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, As I mentioned, according to the article. The extension of the 10-year period will indeed apply to cases in which a 5-year period has not expired until the date of entry into force of the amendment, calculated on the basis of the validity of the judgment. The question concerns the potential non-compliance of this solution with the Constitution. There seems to be no such danger, although, of course, the Minister of Justice does not decide that, because the admissibility of the retrospective action of the new law is justified by the fact that interference in the sphere of legal relations formed in the past will not be excessive. The proposed solutions do not concern the settlement of civil matters, but merely the possibility of making use of an exceptional appeal in the form of a complaint for the reopening of proceedings. An entity should take into account that a change in social or economic conditions may require a change of existing law and must therefore at any time face a change in legislation and take into account the risk of legislative changes justified by the change in those conditions when planning future actions. The adoption of another position would imply an excessive restriction on the freedom of the legislative authority to shape and amend the content of the law and to adapt it to social change. This passage, which I have just allowed myself to read, comes from the justification of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 18 October 2006, P 27/05. A similar thought was found in the judgment of the Court of 31 March 1998, sygn. Act K 24/97. It therefore appears that the allegation of non-compliance with the Constitution is not justified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u329	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u330	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Club15 regarding the government draft law amending the Civil Procedure Code Act, print No 932. In trying to assess the draft submitted, first of all, it is important to commend, first, for the execution of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, which does not cause any major controversy, second, for the time limit for the process of the project in question. It should be noted that Article. 408 c.p.c. it is not effective until April 2017, while we are already dealing with this issue in November 2016. Let us consider this as a good omen for the future, both in terms of substance and procedure - in the end in peace, without haste, without delay. The proposed project envisages a revision of a single rule, which this amendment of the Kukiz Poselski Club 15 supports. The extension of the time limit for the resumption of proceedings from 5 to 10 years gives citizens the chance to exercise their rights more effectively. Another point is that sometimes five years is not enough to go through the entire judicial path, which is incomprehensible to most citizens, but there will be time for profound changes in the judiciary. Now let's focus on this little, but necessary and uncontroversial change in c.p.c. The Poselski Kukiz Club15 recommends that its Members support the draft law contained in print No 932.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u331	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club to present our position on the government draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure Act. Today's amendment concerns an acceptable time limit for reopening civil proceedings. This is an exceptional remedy which allows for the removal from legal trading of defective final judgments terminating proceedings in a substantive manner. This measure undermines the stability of final judgments in civil matters and is therefore limited to the most serious deficiencies that have occurred in the course of the proceedings. The reason for the request to reopen the procedure may be, inter alia, based on a false document, the presence of an unauthorised person in the court or the lack of adequate representation of the party during the proceedings. The draft under discussion today results from the need to comply with the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 22 September 2015. In that judgment, the Constitutional Tribunal held that the five-year pre-emptive period, the expiry of which ultimately closes the judicial route to reopen the proceedings, infringes the Article. Article 77 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2nd Constitution of the Republic of Poland. So far, there have been situations where, after lengthy proceedings, the European Court of Human Rights has opened its way to bringing an action for reopening proceedings, but due to a time limit of 5 years such a request could not be taken into account. This problem was noted by the Constitutional Tribunal, recognising the Article. 408 The Civil Procedure Code, which 5 years after the judgment was passed, does not allow for the renewal of proceedings, except for a few exceptions, to be incompatible with the Constitution. At the same time, the Court stressed that there cannot be a situation where, despite the rightness of the citizen's complaint, he has no opportunity to re-examine the case. The new solution adopted is intended to ensure effective legal protection for all citizens affected by judicial authorities. Project in Art. 408 The Civil Procedure Code adds the following: "Art. 408. After the expiry of ten years, the judgment may not be renewed, except where the party has been deprived of the power of action or has not been duly represented. The proposed amendment will facilitate the exercise of its rights by citizens who have turned their affairs over to the European Court of Human Rights. The ECHR's proceedings can last for many years, hence the five-year period for the possibility of reopening judicial proceedings seems to be far from sufficient. This threatens a situation in which the citizen, holding the ECHR ruling in his hand, will in practice not be able to implement it. The proposed period of 10 years will fully safeguard the interests of those who have brought matters to the judgment of the ECHR in Strasbourg and all others who are looking for the possibility of reopening their cases. The solution in which this 10-year period applies not only to cases dealt with by the Court in Strasbourg, but also to all cases where the 5-year period currently applies. First, the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal is implemented in this way. Secondly, this solution will prevent situations where the time limit provided for in Article. 408 c.p.c. may be less than the time limit for the submission of claims for damages - 3 years from the date on which the injured party finds out about the damage and the person liable to remedy it, but not more than 10 years from the date on which the injurious event occurred. The proposed solution takes into account both the need to balance the principle of protection of acquired rights and procedural justice and the principle of binding international law and the right to court. It shall also take into account the value of the validity of judgments. On the one hand, it will guarantee citizens the right to resume civil proceedings within a reasonable and realistic period of time, and on the other hand it will safeguard the stability of civil relations established on the basis of final judgments of civil courts. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the PSL Parliamentary Club, I request that the project be submitted for further work.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u332	Marshal of the Sejm pursuant to Art. 87. 2 in conjunction with Article. 90. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm are addressed by the Government's draft law amending the Civil Procedure Code, contained in print No 932, to the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications for consideration. We proceed with the examination of item 26. of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on amending the Law on Research Institutes (print No. 995). I ask Mrs Lydia Burzyńska to present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u333	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Draft Print Act No 995 concerns the amendment of certain provisions of the Law of 30 April 2010 on Research Institutes in order to strengthen the supervision of the Minister of Supervision, in particular as regards: firstly, the appointment and cancellation of the Director of the Institute and its Deputy, secondly, matters relating to the day-to-day management of the Research Institute in the event of a failure or cancellation of the Director, thirdly, the possibility of repealing resolutions of the Scientific Council which are not in conformity with the laws and statutes. The current regulations prevent effective supervision of research institutes where the Director does not perform his duties properly. This is particularly dangerous in the case of institutes performing tasks which are particularly important for the planning and implementation of state policy. The draft law assumes that the supervising minister shall appoint and dismiss the Director of the Research Institute without the participation of the Scientific Council. This option gives the Minister greater opportunities to choose the right person for the most important position in the institution, thereby guaranteeing the highest quality of management. The draft also provides that the Supervisory Minister may appoint not only the current Deputy Director but also another person fulfilling the conditions laid down in the Act to act as Director. In the event of the cancellation of the Director of the Institute, it is often the case that the reasons for his appeal by the Minister of Supervision are also valid with regard to his deputy. At the same time, the appointment of a Deputy Director to act as Director could affect the principles of the rule of law, integrity and economy which must be respected in the activities of the research institute. It should be borne in mind that at present the competent minister cannot revoke the Deputy Director of the Institute. Only the Director, the person acting as Director or the person acting as Head of the Institute may do so. It is therefore appropriate to confer on the Supervisory Minister the power to appoint and remove the Deputy Director of the Institute. In the application of the provisions of the present law, please state the law may happen if the supervising minister cancels the Director of the Institute or does not appoint a candidate designated by the competition committee, the former Deputy Director will refuse to accept or perform the duties of Director. In this case, we are dealing de facto with the paralysis of the research institute's activities, which then does not have an authority empowered to act as an executive body. The solution envisaged in the project is intended to prevent this undesirable paralysis of the research institute. It should be stressed that such a person will have to meet practically the same requirements as the Director of the Research Institute, with the exception of the foreign language requirement. This is due to technical difficulties in verifying the knowledge of a foreign language in the event of a sudden need to designate such a person. However, the Deputy Director, who under the current rules must be made mandatory by the Minister of Supervision to perform the duties of Director or Head of Institute, does not have to meet all the conditions laid down in Article. Paragraph 24 6th Bill. In this way, the project aims to improve the quality of the management of the research institute during the transitional period of the absence of its director. The draft also provides that in the event of a reorganisation of the Institute consisting of a change in the subject matter or scope of its operation, the Supervisory Minister may revoke the former Director and appoint a person to carry out his duties. In accordance with the applicable Article. Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 The Scientific Council, of the number specified in the Institute's Statute, shall consist of: staff of the Institute's scientific and research and technical staff, representing at least 50% of the composition of the Board and persons from outside the Institute, representing between 30% and 50% of the composition of the Board, which in accordance with paragraph. 4 shall be appointed by the supervising minister. In order to strengthen, as I said at the outset, the Minister's supervision is proposed to change these proportions in such a way that the Institute's staff represent at least 40% of the composition of the Council and the persons appointed by the Minister of Supervision represent at least 50%. At the same time, it is proposed that the Chairman of the Scientific Council should be elected only from among the members of the Scientific Council appointed by the Minister for Supervision. New regulations have also been added concerning the examination of legality and the statute of the Institute of resolutions of the Scientific Council. The proposed regulation is intended to ensure that the supervisory minister is able to exercise effective supervision of the Institute's activities. In order to facilitate the establishment, division, merger and reorganisation of institutes, it is proposed to shorten the period for the presentation by the working group of opinions from 3 to 2 months from the date of its appointment to the Minister. The draft law has a positive socio-economic impact and does not have financial implications and does not provide for public expenditure. This project is not covered by European Union law. On behalf of the applicants, I ask the High House to adopt a bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u334	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to five-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Lidia Burzyńska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u335	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the parliamentary draft law amending the Law on Research Institutes, print No. 995. The draft law concerns the amendment of the selected provisions of the Law on Research Institutes in order to strengthen the supervision exercised by the competent minister. The provisions currently in force prevent effective supervision of research institutes when the Director does not perform his duties properly. The proposed law provides greater opportunities for the proper selection of the most important people at the Institute, enabling the Minister of Supervision not only to appoint and dismiss the Director of the Research Institute, but also its alternates. It should be noted that under the current regulations, the competent minister cannot revoke the Deputy Director of the Institute. Only the Director of the Institute, the person acting as Director or the person acting as Head of the Institute may do so. The proposed solution therefore guarantees the highest quality of management. The project also adds new regulations concerning the examination of legality and the statute of the Institute of resolutions of the Scientific Council. These regulations are intended to ensure that the Minister oversees the actual implementation of the supervision of the Institute's activities. The project has a positive socio-economic impact, has no financial impact and does not provide for public expenditure. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of the Parliamentary bill amending the Law on Research Institutes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u336	Thank you very much. Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u337	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club on the Act amending the Law on Research Institutes. Firstly, I would like to say that this law was very recently amended, and we had the same people. The Member here presented the previous amendment to us. This took place in the Seym before the holiday, and the change entered into force on 5 August, which is actually just now, you can say, in parliamentary life. We've been over this. What was that amendment like? She was very angry. First, it was all about the institutes. It consisted in the absolute submission of the Institutes to the Supervisory Minister. Later, as a result of reason, the scope of these bad changes was limited only to state research institutes. Now is the second attempt to extend these bad changes to all research institutes. What are these changes? At the appointment of the Director of the Institute without a competition procedure, the appointment of Deputy Director by the Supervisory Minister, and the Director, and Deputy Director, to appoint at least half of the members of the Scientific Council of the Institute by the Supervisory Minister and to appoint the Chairman of the Scientific Council from among the persons appointed by the Supervisory Minister. These are highly centralised solutions. So far, after the changes in 1989, the principle was followed that the management was created by means of a competition. Such a strong centralization makes it impossible to manage research institutes at the Minister's level effectively, because there are over 100 of them. Secondly, scientific research, however, requires a certain degree of freedom of action, decision-making and this is lacking in its effectiveness. Thirdly, under such state conditions, and today, all research institutes may find it difficult to organise their tasks. I would like to say that there is definitely a negative assessment of the General Council of Research Institutes. The letter from the Chairman of the General Council of Research Institutes states that research institutes employ only 13% of all researchers in Poland, but their share of the scientific achievements is 34% and 84% in the implementation acquis. I'm quoting the handwriting I have in front of me. And, of course, the main board is definitely against this project. As before, I wondered where the authors were inspired, and I found the answer to this question. Well, in our history there is a law of 8 January 1951 on the creation of research institutes for the purposes of the national economy and we read in this law - I quote it: The Director and his deputies appoint and dismiss the competent minister. Just like here. Who signed this bill? President of the Republic of Poland Bolesław Bierut, President of the Council of Ministers Józef Cyrankiewicz, Vice President of the Council of Ministers and Chairman of the State Economic Planning Commission Hilary Minc. I ask: Are these good patterns for the law that we are today [[♪ The bell ♪]] For research institutes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u338	Thank you very much. Mrs Barbara Chrobak, Kukiz,15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u339	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The philosophy of repairing the functioning of research institutes presented in the Act raises serious doubts. It is generally based on the efforts to monopolise the state in deciding on the organisation, management and conduct of research activities and scientific institutes. This is the way to take back the concrete arrangements for the appointment of managers of these institutions - directors and vice-directors - composition of scientific councils. Manual management management, direct employment contracts concluded with it by the Ministry managing the institute, reduction of formal requirements, competence and qualifications in relation to candidates for managing positions - vice-directors, the latter being so crazyly argued that it is ridiculous. The applicant is exposed to ridicule, arguing that e.g. verification of the knowledge of a foreign language may result from technical difficulties in the event of a sudden need to designate such a person. Are applicants familiar with such means of verification as e.g. certificates of completion of appropriate courses, completion of studies, etc.? And how in this respect will you verify such qualifications in the case of candidates for directors? It is a poorly effective tool in driving the development of Polish science. Similarly, the limitation of passive electoral rights in the case of the election of the Chairman of the Scientific Council as regards the persons included in the Scientific Council's nomination of the Minister for Management of the Scientific Council. It would be much more effective to consolidate many of these institutes or even to liquidate them for the benefit of Polish science, and certainly of the state's finances. If we do not do this procedure, in the current situation the introduction of statutory solutions will only be an extension of the phenomenon of Misiewicz, so popular today, to new public areas. We can support this idea with the concrete solutions proposed in the Act, print No. 995, but perhaps it would be better to reduce it to one article: the managing minister at the institution he is subject to maybe everything. These institutes are far too many. Some of them have nothing to do with science, and their activities are based on the infrastructure they simply rent. I repeat: these institutes are too many, and another reason for their existence, apart from the reasons referred to earlier, is that they create a false sense of authority of the ministers who manage them. In conclusion, Kukiz15 is opposed to the amendment of the Law on Research Institutes in print No. 995. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u340	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Joanna Schmidt, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u341	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to point out that we understand the need for changes in the functioning of institutes and higher education in general. The debate, the discussion on this issue, is certainly valuable. The devil is, as usual, in the details. When we examine the proposal for change, we see a great desire to subjugate the institutes of ministers, especially in the field of staff, and so new provisions are imposed by practically permanent muzzles on the directors of institutes. The provision not to appoint a Director from among candidates when a competition has been conducted in breach of the law shall be repealed, neither of the candidates shall meet the requirements or none of the candidates shall give the guarantee of the proper performance of the tasks. In return, the Director and his alternates may be appointed by the Minister without the participation of the Scientific Council. The appointment of the Director for 4 years is also repealed, which is also difficult to explain. Is it that those appointed for the party as directors are to perform their duties for life? Further, the provisions on the withdrawal of the Director in the event of an act contrary to the rule of law, integrity and economy shall also be repealed in the event of the Institute's incorrect performance of its statutory tasks. I understand that the rule of law and economy sound foreign to the rulers, but not to everyone. Don't be afraid of those words. The Act also adds the possibility for the Minister to revoke the current Director in case of a change in the subject matter or scope of the Institutes, i.e. as a result of the so-called. reorganisation. I know that this is very often an apparent cause, the cause of de facto is political, i.e. the so-called. political cleansing. The law weakens the importance of the Scientific Council at the expense of the Ministry. Two representatives of the Minister are to be included in the competition committee for the election of candidates for the Director in exchange for... How's it been so far? It was one representative. Consequently, the number of representatives of the Scientific Council has been reduced from two to one. Finally, new regulations have been added to ensure that the Minister controls the decisions of the Scientific Council. High Izbo! The adoption of this law is another shift of the border in the ownership of the institutions by political officers. It's telling the whole scientific community that there are scientists more humble and less humble, scientists better and worse sort. And now the so-called ones. better sort will have management positions in research institutes. What is the quality of the law and justice staff, we have already had an excellent opportunity to find out. An example is Mr.Misiewicz and all the persons appointed in our action Mon. Teddy bears. Persons in positions in companies of the State Treasury. This is also shown by the Smolensk committee composed of experts of questionable reputation. This is a striking and significant sentence from the first side of the statement of reasons, the second paragraph, where you are talking about the purpose of the Act, which is to guarantee the highest quality of management, and this is what the Minister is supposed to provide as a single person. We all know that the human resources of Law and Justice are legendary. Will such experts be running research institutes now? As Modern, we will vote against this law at first reading. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u342	Thank you. Mr Ireneusz Gains, Frees and Solidarni have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u343	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the draft law amending the Law on Research Institutes, print No. 995. The project concerns an increase in the competence of the Minister for Supervision, inter alia. as regards the appointment and cancellation of the Director of the Institute and its Deputy, matters relating to the day-to-day management of the Research Institute in the event of the appointment or cancellation of the Director, the possibility of repealing resolutions of the Scientific Council which are not in conformity with the laws and statutes of the Institute. The Sejm of the Republic has recently passed a law on the amendment of certain laws defining the conditions for conducting innovative activities, the purpose of which is to launch instruments that will contribute to the innovation of the Polish economy and thus to the increase of national income and the improvement of the level of prosperity in Poland. The bill on amending the Law on Research Institutes in our assessment is a supplement to the above mentioned law. legislation through the introduction of legal instruments and organisational frameworks to improve innovation for the benefit of industry and the economy globally. In the Responsible Development Strategy, the causes of low innovation were diagnosed. Most of them are systemic and result from insufficient coordination of R &amp; D activities and support instruments. The problem is, above all, insufficient cooperation between institutions carrying out public tasks in the field of innovation with businesses and business environment organisations. It is therefore appropriate to say that research institutes do little to their mission of bringing science closer to business. The consequence of this is a low tendency to cooperate with Polish companies with the world of science, which to a large extent affects their innovation. Studies show that cooperation is often seen by entrepreneurs as a formal requirement for obtaining grants. For these reasons, the Responsible Development Strategy points to the need to reform research institutes in terms of profiling institutes according to sectoral specialisations and ensuring the possibility of conducting interdisciplinary research. The transformation and consolidation of institutes will aim to create players capable of competing on the global market. This process must be accompanied by appropriate instruments to enable effective supervision of research institutes where the Director of the Institute does not perform its functions properly. This situation threatens in the case of institutes performing important tasks for the planning and implementation of state policy, when there is a threat of disruption and delays in the achievement of the development goals of the Polish economy. In this context, the proposed solutions should lead to the strengthening of the minister's supervision, resulting in greater economic innovation and efficiency in the use of public funding for research. We believe that leaving the R &amp; D sector in an organisational drift would be a serious omission of the current government team, which is why we are in favour of providing the Minister supervising the sector with instruments for the appointment and cancellation of the Director of the Research Institute without the participation of the Scientific Council. In our view, this solution will give the Minister greater opportunities to make the right choice for the highest positions at the Institute and, consequently, lead to an improvement in the quality of the Institute's management staff. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Free and Solidarni Circle supports the bill submitted, requesting that it be sent to the committee for further work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u344	Thank you very much. I would like to cordially greet the children of the Grzymiszewo Dolny Kindergarten-School Group who are listening to our discussions. [[Applause]] Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to speak, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - 1.5 minutes. Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, Law and Justice have the floor. [[There isn't.]] There's no envoy? In that case, please take the floor of Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u345	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have three questions. The first question is how it goes. Since the previous amendment came into force, it has been three months and a few days. I remember that the Members were very strongly in favour of this project, so my question is: What happened during the three months that the authors of the project had completely changed their mind? Secondly, I have heard here that the entry into force of this law will have a positive socio-economic impact. Could we ask you to unveil the hack of mystery as to the positive consequences? I have a third question for the Minister, if I may. On the basis of several meetings I have heard of interesting, in my opinion, important diagnoses, I have also heard requests for solutions to certain problems, so my question is: What long-term plans for research institutes do the Ministry have? [[♪ The bell ♪]] In the light of the assessment I have formulated, I request that this project be rejected at first reading. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u346	Thank you. Mr Józef Lassot, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u347	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In fact, it's hard to ask a substantive question, because the project is so curiosity that it just sticks. Of course, there is one goal: total submission to one person - the minister - of all decisions, because if it is said that not only the director of the institute, but also the deputy director of the institute is to appoint a minister, that means that this director will be a complete puppet. He has nothing to say because the deputies are independent of him. In addition, the rapporteur justified inter alia. the fact that this serves to improve the quality of the institute's management. In fact, I have a question for the rapporteur whether, in presenting such a curiazal justification - it is known for what purpose this draft law is, a parliamentary act - it is not embarrassing to speak publicly about such a justification which is completely unaccounted for, but everything is against it in order to improve the quality of the institution's management. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u348	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u349	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, A few months ago, we were debating a revision of the Law on Research Institutes. The result of the work was a significant cut-off of the proposed changes, which were limited to the most prestigious institutes, so-called. PIBs, i.e. state research institutes. The changes concerned a similar matter to what we are debating today - an increase in the supervision of ministers over subordinate institutes in the area of directors' elections, the shape of committees choosing the composition of scientific councils. From the perspective of these few months, I personally believe that it was wrong that the project was so limited. My view is based on concrete experiences that I've witnessed recently. It is remarkable that the competition procedure carried out in accordance with the unchanged old rules can liberate from the newly elected director of the state institution unusual rhetoric and harassment against those who dared to have a critical position regarding his candidacy and not supporting him in the elections. It's unusual that nowadays you can report disciplinarys and publicly stigmatize such people. And it is not pleasant for me, as a Member, to receive correspondence on this matter. My question is: So far, have ministers had sufficient tools to stigmatise such actions by directors, or not? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u350	Thank you. Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u351	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Whatever the representatives of the total opposition say from the Seym's speaker, one thing is certain: changes to the law on research institutes are necessary. This is clearly demonstrated by the Supreme Audit Chamber report of 20 October 2015, which states: Controlled research institutes did not fully exploit their research potential. They had little implementation activity, which is their statutory duty. And further: The activities of half of the institutes consisted to a large extent in the implementation of the work for public administration and economic operators. The previous supervision of ministries focused mainly on financial and organisational issues rather than on scientific and implementation activities. Will the solutions proposed in the draft law ensure the proper organisation of the work of research institutes, will they ensure that their potential is exploited and, above all, that their statutory tasks are properly carried out? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u352	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education, Mr Aleksander Bobko, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u353	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The problem of research institutes returns once again during the proceedings of the High House. I am presenting a rather hastily prepared position of the Ministry at the moment, because it is not yet the position of the government, there was no time for that, and this position is the following. The first point is that research institutes in Poland certainly require reforms and changes. And that, I think, is the truth or the thesis that can connect us here, regardless of political options. I think the opponents of this law also share this view. The Ministry is preparing - well, these are processes quite difficult, but we are preparing - comprehensive changes concerning research institutes, because it has to be noted that when we say: research institutes, we are talking de facto about very different entities. This is more than 100 very different entities, starting with institutions that operate at the highest global level, to a little weaker, let's say I will not develop this thread, but completely different, and certainly need some consolidation, perhaps also consolidation in the sense of combining some institutes with existing universities or universities. We are thinking of setting up a national research institute that integrates this somewhat dispersed potential in this large number of institutes. On the other hand, the proposed change is ad hoc because it hits this point or is trying to solve one of the problems or one of the problems which lies in the illusory influence of the Minister on the operation of institutes. This isn't the right situation, it's probably gonna have to be changed somehow. May I just add my own observation that it may seem equally illusory that the Minister's very strong influence on institutes will radically change the situation in these institutes. Experience has shown that this way of thinking may not produce the desired results. So this proposed act is trying to respond to one of the problems of this important segment of Polish science. On the other hand, I am convinced - and I hope that this will happen in the near future - that this subject needs comprehensive solutions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u354	Thank you very much, Minister. Please take the floor of the applicant's representative, Mrs Lydia Burzyńska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u355	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I answer the question to the Member of the Civic Platform, what has happened is that the amendment of the Law on Research Institutes, signed by the President in August, is coming back in November. That is why, sir, because in the Law on Research Institutes of 2010 in Article. 2 e.g. It is noted that the Institute's core activities include: research and development, adaptation of research and development results to the needs of practice, implementation of research and development results. And here I would like to combine this with the answer to Mrs Borowiak's question, which inter alia. stated that the Supreme Audit Chamber in October 2015, when controlling all research institutes, stated clearly... And with these results, you are not going to argue, are you? [[Well, it's been known...]] ...that they do not make full use of the research potential, they have little implementation activity. Sir, in the August Act, it was limited only to state research institutes, and the 2010 Institutes Act clearly states in its article. 2 that these three tasks, which I have just mentioned, which are the responsibility of research institutes, concern everyone, hence today's first reading of the draft law extending the real supervision of other institutes, i.e. the remaining 98 institutes, because so much is non-state. Secondly, will it have a positive financial impact? Yes, ladies and gentlemen. Among other things, there are data from the Supreme Chamber of Control. Non-use, that is, that the number of patents is not equivalent to the implementation of these scientific achievements into the economy, causes the economy to lose. So the exploitation of the scientific potential of research institutes will reflect to a large extent in an increase in the positive financial impact for the state, because we need to know that Polish scientists and Polish students have huge potential, only it has to be exploited. That's one thing. And to the Member of the Civic Platform, who asks me - to be honest, I never expected such words from the speaker - to be ashamed when I argue. Sir, so I'm going to say to you, did you have any shame when you were in charge for eight years, you led research institutes not to exploit the potential that research institutes are shutting down? [[Applause]] the way for young scientists to grow? So, sir, it seems to me that your question was inappropriate, and I explained very graphically to you that I did not - sir, sir - I did not have, I was not ashamed at all, when I justified the draft law on amending the Law on Research Institutes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[You can see that, you can see that, yeah.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u356	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u357	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! The powder fell: from the justification of the project about research institutes we can only conclude one thing - it is another staff law of the PiS written this time to give more opportunity to written ministers. It raises as many doubts and questions. Here are a few cases that might interest you. The draft envisages that the Minister who supervises a specific institute will be able to appoint a director of the Institute from among the candidates submitted by the competition committee - there was no such choice before, he appointed the winner of the competition. Does this mean that the Minister will be able to cancel the Director and put his man in his place? There's a lot of evidence that it is. The Act makes it clear that the Minister does not have to deal with the opinion of the Scientific Council of the Institute as to which Director he wishes to appoint. At the same time, it was foreseen that the Supervisory Minister may not appoint a Director when none of the candidates submitted by the committee guarantees the proper performance of the Institute's tasks. What does that mean? The bill doesn't specify that. Theoretically, the situation when the Minister designates the so-called. his man is a temporary temporary situation, because after six months he should appoint a director by way of a competition, but the minister can always reject the candidate, and the pretext can be general, for example. that it does not guarantee the implementation of the tasks of the Institute. No secrets, of course. Interestingly, on the competition committee, three people come from the minister, and only two define the scientific community. Therefore, in our opinion, PiS is doing everything to intimidate and consequently take over a huge part of Polish science - scientific institutes. There's no consent for that. Polish science should be independent, not party, as it seems - plans PiS. The law proposed by the PiS is nothing more than another installment of the fast career path of the next so-called. Misiewicz. It's not high school, but it's gonna make you an officer to be honest -- it's a pretty popular password in circles close to MON these days. The PiS, implementing its staff policy, extends it to further public activities. Today, not a competition and the minister can do e.g. from the party's director's PiS activist. The PSL Club will be opposed to the changes made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u358	A motion to reject the draft law at first reading was put forward in the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal at the next session of the Sejm. I'm ordering a five-minute recess. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 15 mins 57 hours 16 min 03]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 27 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. The first question was prepared by Marek Polak, Zbigniew Biernat, Jarosław Szlachetka and Ewa Filipiak from Law and Justice, on practices related to undermining the value of imported vehicles. The question is addressed to the Minister of Finance. Please take the floor of Mr Mark Polak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u359	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Recently, the idea of amending the excise tax law has emerged in the course of parliamentary work. I have no doubt about the need to amend this act due to the shortcomings of some of its records, which include. give the possibility of illegally undermining the value of imported vehicles, and as a result of such regulation in the current state, it is known that lower excise duties are being charged and, consequently, a decrease in the State's revenue from this effect. I would like to ask the Minister: Does the resort have estimates of the State's revenue losses? If yes, what are these values and how much does the state budget lose on the illegal understatement of registered vehicles? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u360	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Zbigniew Biernat.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u361	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! As we know, the tax is levied on cars that are registered in Poland for the first time. This applies to both new vehicles and vehicles imported from abroad. Often excise duty on cars imported from abroad is lowered. Could you tell the Minister what the negative practices of lowering excise duty on imported vehicles are? What does the scale of these abuses from year to year look like - are they decreasing or increasing? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u362	Thank you. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Wiesław Jasiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u363	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen! Thank you for asking. With regard to the scale of the reduction in excise tax revenue resulting from the deterioration of the value of passenger cars purchased outside the country, the results of analyses which are relatively rarely carried out can be used. The problem you are addressing is extremely rarely addressed in various types of diagnosis, research. The gray zone raises the interest of important audit entities, and here we are dealing with a deficit. However, such analyses are carried out at the Ministry of Finance. We have analysed this on the example of the most popular models of cars, which are most often imported by Poles. This analysis compared the market value of these vehicles with the value declared for payment of excise duty. In the case of vehicles with an engine capacity above 2 l, i.e. 2000 cm3, i.e. those which are taxed at a lower rate of excise duty, there were no significant differences between the market value and that indicated in the tax return. On the other hand, lowering the tax base is a particularly common practice for cars with an engine capacity above 2 l, as the excise duty rate in this case is 18.6% the values of the vehicle. Let me remind you that this rate was raised from 13.6% on 1 January 2009. This was done by the government of the Civic Platform and PSL. To illustrate this problem, you can use an example of an A6 Audi A6 with an engine capacity of 3000 cm3 produced in 2004 - 12 years old. The average age of cars imported by Poles is 11 years and 9 months. The average value of such a vehicle indicated in excise declarations - and we checked a large representative sample of cars just A6 volume of 3000 cm3, once again - was PLN 13 932 and the tax calculated and paid on such amount is PLN 2591. On the other hand, the market value of such a vehicle is PLN 30 707. The excise duty, which should be paid, amounts to PLN 5711 and thus twice as much. With some brands out of these nine above 2 l this underdog was even greater. When comparing the value of excise duty - the one declared and actually paid with the one potentially to be paid - it can be seen that the excise duty calculated on the basis of the undervalued value of the vehicle on average amounts to around 50% of the amount of tax that should be paid if the market value of the vehicle were taken into account. If this observed correctness were passed on to all cars with an engine capacity above 2 l acquired internally - and I must point out that this would be a significant simplification - it can be estimated that the reduction in budget revenue for under-values of passenger cars imported to Poland can reach up to PLN 400 million per year. This amount should be combined with revenues from passenger car taxation, which amounted to PLN 1894 million in 2015. At the same time, it should be pointed out that cars with an engine capacity above 2 l represent approximately 10% the number of all vehicles that are purchased internally and are responsible for around 45% revenue from this. On the other hand, with regard to the question raised in the question of mechanisms and practices relating to circumvention of the provisions of the Excise Tax Act when purchasing intra-Community cars by lowering the tax base, it is necessary to repeat once again that, due to the current tax system, passenger cars with a capacity exceeding 2 l - 18,6 established by the Platform and PSL on 1 January 2009. One of the patterns of illegal conduct consists in disassembling selected components of the vehicle or its equipment, e.g. leather seats, aluminium rims, disassembly of certain parts and assembly destroyed so as to reduce the value of the vehicle. Such a car is then presented for the valuation of the valuer. After the valuation, the previously mentioned parts shall be re-assembled. Another mechanism for lowering the tax base is to indicate in the excise declaration a much lower value than the market value. The latter mechanism does not require valuations carried out by the assessor. In these cases, the correct tax base shall be established by the tax authorities in the course of the verification of declarations and of the tax proceedings taken. These activities involve significant administrative resources as each of the cases in question is individual and the decision of the tax authority in the case is made following an examination of the rules and the facts. In addition to the previously described mechanisms of circumvention of the provisions relating to vehicle impairment, the practice of registration of passenger cars as heavy goods vehicles has also been defined. This mechanism is linked to the fact that the existing provisions of the Excise Tax Act use the autonomous definition of a passenger car which refers to the classification of the Combined Nomenclature (CN). In summary, there are various mechanisms, [[♪ The bell ♪]] documentation and technical, including the use of legal gaps, those concerning registration of trucks as passenger cars, the largest number of old cars imported in Europe - it is in Poland, a major risk on the roads for this reason and...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u364	Thank you, Minister. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Wiesław Jasiński: ...polluting the environment. The changes in excise duty should, of course, be linked to these three factors. Thank you. Thank you. I ask Mr Zbigniew Biernat to ask an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u365	Thank you very much. It is precisely with regard to this statement by the Minister that I have another question. Given that there is a great deal of scope for interpretation in terms of the definition of a heavy goods vehicle and the registration of these vehicles as a passenger, Minister, should we not consider using other factors which would be the basis for taxing newly registered cars, such factors which would possibly minimise the possibility of tax fraud? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u366	Thank you very much. I ask Minister Jasinski to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u367	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! Yes, it is this issue that you are addressing that is essential, so it is about the construction of excise duty, which will take into account factors other than those that have been taken into account so far. And this way goes the senate draft amendments to the excise duty law on cars, so that it is taken into account e.g. so-called. environmental, environmental factors. In many Member States of the European Union, this element is taken into account in excise duty or in all car charges first registered in a specific country. This element in this construction, the new construction, the design, is to be considered, so-called. the euro standard, and of course the capacity of the vehicle, it also involves this euro standard, as well as the age of the vehicle. Thus, the construction proposed by the Senate takes into account various issues, not only... or even is not an important issue for the Senate's idea of providing additional revenue to the budget, which was the premise of 2009.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u368	Thank you, Minister. The next question was prepared by Sylwester Chrusz and Krzysztof Sitarski from the Kukiz Poselski Club15 on the negotiations on the Polish side adopted in Paris on 12 December 2015 of the Paris Agreement to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, drawn up in New York on 19 May 1992 - a question to the Minister for the Environment. I ask Mr Sitarski to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u369	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! My questions concern the commitments which the Government of the Republic of Poland undertook in the framework of the COP21 conference in 2015. Polish industry, issuers are obliged by national and European legislation to use, to pay under the Community market the obligation to purchase carbon allowances under the European Emissions Trading System. The conference is currently underway UN Marrakesh COP22. The questions are driven by concerns about the findings and further consequences of the climate and energy package. Here it is very important to take the specifics of the Polish energy market based on coal. I would like to determine whether the concept of CO2 concentration in the atmosphere with forest coal farms is just a request negotiated at the meeting of the parties or a project actually implemented. The State Forests define this project as an experimental programme for the trading of carbon dioxide units absorbed by forest resources. Therefore, does any Member State participating in the ETS formally apply this solution? If, according to the announcement, such solutions in Poland are to be applied from the beginning of 2017, is Poland formally guaranteed by the United Nations that potential environmental benefits will be accounted for in favour of Poland? If it is agreed, or already is, to use forest ecosystems, will the number of CO2 emission allowances granted to the Polish State increase as a result of the implementation of the State Forest project? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u370	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment, Mr Mariusz Gajda.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u371	Dear Marshal, (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo! First of all, I would like to say that right now there is another 22nd session of the Conference of the Parties to the Climate Agreement. This session takes place in Marrakesh, Morocco. There is a minister present, Prof. Jan Szyszko, a representative of the government for climate policy Mr Paweł Salek. Hence my presence in this matter, and not Mr Salka, who is the best specialist in this area, but I will try to answer Mr Salka's questions. I was gonna say 9:00. The Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Paris has adopted the text of the new international agreement, so-called. the Paris Agreement. I would like to say that the Paris Agreement is a breakthrough in the current climate negotiations, because it not only sets a certain emission limit, but also a way of developing carbon dioxide, among other things. through the soil and through the woods. I would like to stress that the Paris Agreement has been ratified, among others. by the United States and China, and these countries have not yet ratified the Kyoto Convention. During the negotiations Polish representatives were guided by the overriding interests of the state, including economic interests. The new agreement does not jeopardise Poland's economic interests or affect the consistency of its obligations with the priorities of the Polish government. The agreement introduces a new concept of climate neutrality, actively promoted by the Polish delegation, expressed as a desire to balance the emissions of anthropogenic greenhouse gases with their absorption, including by forests. The new concept of climate neutrality has so far replaced the so-called concept of climate neutrality. total decarbonisation of economies. In other words, it will be possible to burn, of course, reducing emissions, fossil fuels, while at the same time it is necessary to absorb these emissions by forests. This approach to achieving the long-term objective eliminates the risks arising from actions aimed at eliminating the total use of fossil fuels in the coming decades, which in the case of Poland would be practically impossible due to the current energy mix. This means that Poland has full freedom to decide what measures it will take to implement the agreement. She's not coerced, for example. to abandon coal mining or the construction of modern coal blocks. This was possible thanks to the active efforts of the Environment Minister in the European Group during the COP, and his high position and international trust will allow, among others. to entrust it by the COP Presidency to chair the work of one of the working groups in the negotiations. During COP21 in Paris, Poland was promoted as a leader in the implementation of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. Among other things, it was stressed. five times the CO2 reduction as shown by the Kyoto Protocol - 30% instead of 6%, while increasing GDP by 100% , as well as two COP organisations - in Poznań in 2008 and Warsaw in 2013. The Paris Agreement is a breakthrough in the global approach to climate change. For the first time, it has been possible to negotiate a universal agreement whereby all countries of the world will join measures to reduce global temperature increases. The universality of the agreement makes it easier for Poland to maintain the competitiveness of its economy on the world stage. Furthermore, the ratification of the Agreement by the various parties exceeded the expectations, allowing it to enter into force on 4 November 2016, i.e. before the next session of the Conference of the Parties, just over six months after its signature on 22 April 2016 and less than a year after its adoption. The Agreement was ratified by 109 countries and the European Union by 15 November. As far as the specific solution for emissions trading is concerned, it is at this moment that a session is being held in Morocco, which has been recognised as an implementation session. In other words, it has been signed and implemented, ratified by 109 countries in the world and by the European Union, in order to establish certain details at the subsequent conferences of the parties, it can be said, technically, how to implement this convention. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u372	Thank you very much. I would ask you to ask Mr Sylwester Khrushch, Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u373	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have an additional question concerning the ratification of the Paris Agreement to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change adopted in Paris on 12 December 2015. The most important element of the Paris Agreement is to minimise the increase in global average temperature so as to prevent global warming from increasing by more than 2 degrees C. Minister Szyszko sent a letter to environmental ministers from the countries of the European Union - this is what we read in international agencies. He wrote that the Republic, our country, would agree to the accelerated ratification of the climate agreement only on its own terms if our economic interests were secured. Meanwhile, the agreement entered into force. Hence my question: Did we, as a Polish party, negotiate this agreement, or did we manage to enter into proper records, or were we just relying on a word of honor, which would be at least puzzling and then not enforceable? [[♪ The bell ♪]] So I'm asking you exactly about these negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u374	Thank you very much. I ask you, Minister Gaida, for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u375	(PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make it clear that the Paris Agreement, which was signed in Paris, was adopted by Poland after the negotiations that were conducted by Minister Szyszko. So the agreement already adopted in Paris guaranteed all interests of Poland. So that there was no need to amend this agreement later during signing and during ratification. It's already been shaped like this because of a lot of activity... Because I wanted to say that Minister Szyszko went there practically as soon as he became Minister, and thanks to him it was adopted in a form which does not affect the interests of Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u376	Thank you. The next question was prepared by Members Jarosław Gonciarz, Dariusz Starzycki and Gabriela Masłowska from Law and Justice, on a strategy for changes in the health care system in Poland for the years 2016 The question is addressed to the Minister of Health. I ask Mr Jarosław Gonciusz to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u377	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The strategy for changes to the health system in Poland for 2016 and 2018 provides for the establishment of a three-step division of the main hospitals - in the first, second and third stages. Each of them must meet certain specific criteria, including an appropriate number of branches, i.e. on stage I - four branches. In view of such a declaration in many district hospitals, which play an important role in the treatment chain for residents, due to the tradition and trust in local medical staff, there have been concerns that hospitals with e.g. two, three branches will not be able to prepare for change and will lose the source of funding. I therefore ask the Minister: If the county hospital fails to meet all the requirements, is there a chance for it to continue to function, or does the ministry provide for a transitional period during which adaptation could take place, so that there is at least one hospital in each county? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u378	Thank you. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Mr Piotr Gryza.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u379	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! To answer this question, you may need to say two words about the system that we have right now. Since 2012, there have been no de facto competitions on the scale of the whole system. Through the successive legal regulations that have annexed the agreement, we are living in a system that is relatively ossified, without de facto functioning the basic principles that underpin the building of this system, i.e. making public funds, guaranteeing benefits to patients by participating in the competition. The rigor of the normal operation of the system causes that, if the players operating in the same market become in the competition, there is always a risk that any of these entities will not enter. Therefore, from the perspective of the new regulatory proposal that the Ministry of Health intends to present, you need to see the features of the system that is currently in operation. The normal thing about competition, in the competition system, is that a hospital or a certain range of activities of this hospital may not enter into the contract system of the National Health Fund. And there is such a real risk. It should also be added that the system has developed considerably over the last few years. There have been major investments from European funds, both centrally and regionally, also from private funds. Thus, the potential for providing health services is much greater and we with this baggage of potential and potential are entering solutions that must take place from 1 July 2017. So this collision of different possibilities is much bigger than it's ever been before. So the risk that there will be some turbulence in the contracting of benefits, and the risk that a specific hospital or a certain range of benefits will not be able to be contracted by the National Health Fund, because another entity will do so, may not be applicable to the whole system at the moment, but in many cases such a real situation occurs. This is why the Ministry of Health's proposal aims to ensure that relevant actors, looking from the perspective of access to patient benefits, can enter a network to ensure certain stability of access to benefits and stable availability of funds from the public payer. It's like a certain approach to the whole system. And now just a specific question. Well, the regulatory proposal is that there are three levels of security. But this does not exhaust the whole, because the proposal also provides for paediatric, oncology, pulmonology and national hospitals, namely de facto institutes, clinical hospitals and hospitals created by the minister. This is a certain holistic spectrum that is supposed to enter - as we call it - the basic hospital system to secure hospital benefits. It must be added, and with full force it should be stressed that this system does not exhaust the whole system of securing access to hospital benefits, that is only part. This system is intended to include those who play an important role in accessing patients' benefits from both national, regional and local positions, here in this case the county. The idea of this system is that, in terms of these three basic levels that you have mentioned, Members asking questions, these are acute hospitals. Therefore, the criteria of the statutory proposal also include hospitals which have a contract with the National Health Fund for the last 2 years, have an agreement to a hospital emergency department or to an emergency room and provide hospitalized services, i.e. they are ready to perform the services all the time. The first level you're asking directly is the first level hospital. Indeed, we are talking here about four branches, or actually four profiles: general surgery, internal diseases, obstetrics and gynaecology, neonatology and pediatrics. At the same time, it should be pointed out that by general surgery and internal diseases we mean a more surgical and conservative profile, because in these profiles we can also perform benefits that have been performed so far in other branches. The criterion is so formulated at the moment that in order to access the network, you need to have two profiles from this branch. So as for the direct question, what about the hospitals that have two or three, if they have two of these four, that means they're qualified for this system. And what happens if there are hospitals that don't fulfil this criterion, because they have, for example. one branch or e.g. do they have a branch that's not listed in this directory? As I mentioned before, this primary hospital system [[♪ The bell ♪]] the provision of health services covers only part. If something does not enter this system, then the director of the National Health Fund branch, and in the future the local payer uses the contracting instruments to secure benefits if these benefits should be secured in the given location. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u380	Thank you, Minister. I would like to ask you an additional question from Mr Dariusz Starzycki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u381	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Referring to the Minister's comments on the risks when a branch may not qualify for a specific level of reference, I would like to ask how the Minister assesses the impact of the proposed changes on the financial situation of district hospitals in the event of a reduction in funding for branches other than branches eligible for the first or second degree of reference. There is a concern that this will not lead to the outflow of medical and nursing staff from these hospitals to better financed units, which may affect the quality and standard of benefits in county hospitals, which are already difficult to secure medical staff for their functioning today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u382	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u383	You can look at it from a few points of view. First of all, the system dimension. Our practice so far was that everyone could do anything. Branches or profiles developed actually the way they were created by the environment. The idea of this solution is to modify it a little bit, i.e. In order to transfer certain specialist departments to multi-profile hospitals, however, not everyone has to do everything. It's a certain directional motion to make sure there's a certain adequacy of resources. One feature of the current system is that there is a very far-reaching dispersion of resources. We've contracted at least a little bit of the subject into that range, a little bit in that range. Here we want to correct it a little bit. First of all, so that these departments, these specialized profiles, are performed in multi-profile hospitals. That's one thing. The second point is that there is a competitive system and individual actors are also seeking human resources, human resources. In the sense that there is some competition between players, it is natural that the price of this resource is rising. And now the idea of this basic system of securing hospital benefits, i.e. the so-called. The network is that we propose: these hospitals must be, in this respect you guarantee access to basic health services and in this respect there is a guarantee of financing. In this sense, we can say that we are reducing some competition in terms of access to human resources. It can be said that this is a bit of a response to this question or to the risk that you have said. That's one thing. The second thing I mentioned in the first part of the question. Namely, these branches, which do not enter, can compete for the competition and if they are needed, if they are of the right quality, they will actually win in this competition. The decision-making process is the first half of next year if, of course, Parliament accepts this legislative proposal. It's both classification to so-called. the networks of hospitals, as well as the launch of competition procedures, because the director of the National Health Fund branch will determine on the basis of the criteria that are to be formulated, the list of hospitals that will enter this system, and at the same time announce the competitions where local authorities consider that access to health services in these areas should be guaranteed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u384	Thank you, Minister. The next question was prepared by Members Teresa Nolas, Krzysztof Głuchowski and Jerzy Gosiewiski from Law and Justice on the task projections that the Ministry is considering in the new financial perspective. And the question is to the Minister of Environment. I would ask you to ask Mrs Teresa Nolas.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u385	Dear Minister, Today's inquiry concerns the scope of the task forecasts planned by the Ministry of the Environment for the years of the current financial perspective, 2014.2020, and in particular the investment tasks defined by the individual programme axes, taking into account the amount of national resources used, the European Union funds and other funding streams. I ask: Is the Ministry considering taking into account regional priorities in order to take account of the sustainable needs that, according to the latest NIK reports, at least in recent years, have been seriously disturbed? This is about the tasks of the National Environmental and Water Management Fund. In turn the question concerns investment opportunities for the south-eastern Poland region and the whole wall of the eastern country, including plans and possibilities of financing such tasks as the construction of water reservoirs with small and medium retention. The concept of building such tanks concerns, among others. projects on the river Wieprz in Topola, the municipality of Izbica - small retention - and in the village of Oleśnik, the municipality of Łopiennik - the average retention - the Lublin Voivodeship: submission of adjacent areas to the river basin, including clippings of dried trees - a particularly picturesque picture of this state can be seen in the river basin area of Wieprz in the district of Krasnostawsko - or support by the Ministry of Environment for the implementation of environmental policy of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u386	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment, Mr Mariusz Gajda.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u387	Dear Marshal, (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and High Izbo! This question, which you have asked, is a very valid question. Indeed, we have analysed the spending of environmental funds in the previous financial perspective, 2007.2013, and it is clear that according to statistics, South-East Poland was often overlooked. Ten times less funds were spent in the Podkarpackie Voivodship than e.g. in the West Pomeranian Voivodeship. These are facts and that's what we need to make up for right now. As regards funds at the disposal of the Minister for the Environment - in quotes at his disposal, because they are at the disposal of different entities, but as regards those that are supervised by the Minister for the Environment - this is primarily the Operational Programme of the Infrastructure and Environment, actions 2.1, 2.4, 2.5, as well as the Norwegian Funds and LIFE+. In addition, there are regional operational programmes. These regional operational programmes are the responsibility of the regional Marshals of the voivodships and, in principle, the Minister of Environment does not have much influence, apart from creating a certain policy. When it comes to how to catch up now, first of all, it's gonna be... The National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, as the implementing institution, is currently developing changes in EU programmes, mainly in the Operational Programme, Infrastructure and the environment, in such a way as to be able to finance these investments also in the east and south of Poland through financial support from local authorities from national funds, because it has often been so that these investments in poorer municipalities could not be implemented because there was insufficient funding for co-financing. At the moment, the national fund is preparing it. These actions are really very, very much. Now, with regard to water management, about retention tanks, there are no such reservoirs in the partnership agreement, just theoretically they are not yet on the lists, but we are trying to change these criteria - a detailed description of the tasks, as well as a partnership agreement - in such a way as to be able to finance in particular a small retention in non-urbanised areas. This is one of the goals pursued here by both the Minister and the Ministry of the Environment, and the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, because Poland is a very poor country in water, especially this lack of water feels the east of Poland, there are problems, and on the other hand there are problems with floods. And that's what we're preparing right now. I wanted to say, however, that these changes take time. We're doing a lot right now. I sign a few letters every day in this case because it's a process. Namely, as an intermediary, we must first obtain the approval of the managing authority, the Ministry of Development. We find full understanding there. We're changing all these programs right now. So that I can say that we are also trying to, by means of national measures, as I said earlier... that is, EU funds under the Operational Programme of the State as a whole infrastructure and environment, i.e. designed for the whole country, pursue such a policy, in order to equip these municipalities primarily with sewage treatment plants, because this is one of the most important things, the implementation of the National Urban Waste Water Treatment Programme, and also to conduct comprehensively all other activities related to water management, environmental protection in those areas. And, like I said, we don't have much influence on what's going on in regional programmes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u388	Thank you, Minister. I ask Mr Krzysztof Głuchowski to ask for an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u389	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The question is what the legislator can show when introducing new technologies through appropriate provisions in the proposed Water Law. Polish entrepreneurs want to apply, quickly implemented, new technology of using ground water heat in winter shallowly located, 20. 40 m below the surface of the earth, and using the cold of these waters during the summer period. These waters shall be taken from the ground, pumped by appropriate equipment and returned to the ground without changing the physicochemical composition. The only thing that changes is the temperature of the water. This technology allows significant energy savings for existing air conditioning and heating systems. It is environmentally friendly and climate-friendly, it is widely implemented in the Netherlands and Germany, especially in greenhouse production. Because technology is based on water abstraction and its introduction into the ground, [[♪ The bell ♪]] is subject to double charges according to the proposed Water Law (for collection and removal). The application of these charges will constitute a barrier to the application of this technology in Poland. The question is therefore: Does the Minister of the Environment see the possibility of statutory exemption from the fees resulting from the proposed Water Law in relation to this technology? Will our entrepreneurs have...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u390	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u391	... an economic opportunity to introduce these solutions, such as the Dutch or Germany? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u392	I would like to ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment of Mr Mariusz Gajda for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u393	Thank you very much. I am sure that you are talking about heat pumps, which have been known for decades, and I have learned about them in college since the 1970s, so that this is a very famous technology. It is based on the third principle of thermodynamics and consists of the fact that from a large amount of heat is collected, then less weight is heated. This is a very well-known method and it does not actually pollute, it does not cause any chemical changes in the composition of water, it only changes the temperature. That's what I call it. water intake, i.e. the collection of water, means that water is collected and then brought back to the point of collection or next to the medium, in all, back to the same medium, or as if it were taken from the water or from the groundwater, and it is introduced. And, of course, I can assure you that there will be no fees for such return calls. It's already included in the bill. If this needs to be clarified at the Seym stage, I ask you to clarify it, but I can assure you that any water intake is free of charge. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u394	Thank you, Minister. The next question was prepared by Mr Małgorzata Chmiel and Mr Adam Korol of the Civic Platform on the Government's Living+ programme adopted by the Council of Ministers on 28 September 2016. This is a question for the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction. I would like to ask Małgorzata Chmiel a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u395	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the adoption by the Council of Ministers in September of this year of the Government's scheme of living+, I would like to ask the Minister kindly - because the local authorities are concerned that you intend to transfer to housing under the Government's programme of housing+, areas away from armed housing centres - as you would like to solve the communication problems and weapons problems arising from this action, even more so as it will deepen the so-called. uncontrollably spilling cities, why our urban planners try to counter them. There's even a special law against it. Self - governmentmen are very concerned about this. That's the first question. Second question. I would like to ask: Are cheap government premises according to your apartments in the remote area with armament of the area, the cost of which is to be borne by all of us? After all, the value of weapons, communication, kindergartens, schools should be added to the price of the apartment. The value of the land must also be added to the price of the apartments. When you count these costs, do you suggest that you fit into 3,000? M2 zloty, and recently I read reports that even in 2,000. For m2? This is another step of your return to the right past period of the commune. Schools... Now there's land for free. [[♪ The bell ♪]] for selected cooperatives. It's a distribution plus, nothing else, and the mommy of people that it's going to be cheap apartments. It's like buying a car, just buying a body...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u396	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u397	...they paid for the body without wheels and claimed that we were able to buy a car very cheaply. I'd like another one, if you don't mind, just one quote.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u398	No, no, no. No, my fellow Member. Time's up, Member. Time's up. There's an extra question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u399	Good. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u400	Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Mrs Justyna Wing.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u401	Good evening! Dear Marshal, High Izbo! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and On the preliminary note, the National Housing Programme provides for a comprehensive set of regulatory and financial measures aimed at improving housing conditions for the population. Some of these activities are directly addressed to municipal authorities, which themselves decide on the location of new buildings, also taking into account issues related to the provision of appropriate technical infrastructure and access to public transport. This is particularly the case for aid to municipalities in the creation of municipal housing, social housing, shelters or homeless homes. As it seems, the question concerned mainly the activities identified in the National Housing Programme related to the construction of apartments for rent, including the option to acquire housing for property. Housing investments are organised by BGK Real Estate SA. The company mainly cooperates with local authorities, which decide to transfer land property and thus indicate the location of the future investment. So far BGK Real Estate SA, as you know very well, has signed 30 letters of intent with local authorities in the context of the pilotage carried out, which concern most of the specific letters already indicated by the municipality of the location. It is clear from the analysis of the location of these properties that the doubts raised by the Member do not seem justified. New apartments are located nearby or within existing housing estates, with good access to technical and social infrastructure, and in the case of large cities also with access to urban public transport. Currently, investment activity will focus on cooperation with local authorities, at a later stage the housing will also be able to be built on the State Treasury, which are currently on the board of seniors, Agricultural Property Agency and Military Property Agency. It is assumed that new buildings will be built on plots whose use for housing purposes is rational for technical and economic reasons. A condition for the location of housing investments will therefore be the proper classification of municipal areas in planning documents, i.e. local spatial planning plans or studies of conditions and spatial planning for residential construction. Another condition will also be access to the technical infrastructure, appropriate structural features of the land plot - size, shape for the planned investment. As regards the concerns that new investments will be located in areas remote from existing urbanization structures requiring costly infrastructure investments, I would like to ensure that they are unjustified and that local authorities should not bear any additional costs. In addition, the pursuit of the situation that new buildings will be located in areas covered by spatial planning will prevent the spread of cities. Finally, the answer on financial issues: we maintain earlier declarations that the costs of most locations should be in the range of 2.5 000. PLN up to 3000. zł per m2. Of course, in the case of large cities, these costs may be slightly higher, while for the time being additional registered municipalities also carry out appropriate analyses in this respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u402	Thank you, Minister. I would like to ask the additional question of Mr Adam Korol.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u403	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I wanted to ask the question of how the resort intends to acquire land for a project in cities above 500,000. residents where the housing problem is the biggest, since the State Treasury does not have any land suitable for these investments. At first, you said you were going to build 300,000. So, last time you guys said that it wasn't $300,000, it was $6,000, so what's the real number? Thank you, and I'm asking you for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u404	Thank you. Please respond to Minister Justyna Wing.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u405	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, As I said before, the program is in the pilot phase. At the moment there are 30 letters of intent signed with local governments, which expressed their willingness to cooperate with the government of the Republic of Poland in the implementation of these investments. Some estimates of the number of these apartments actually appear in the media. They were made public by various stakeholders, I understand, including this programme. On the other hand, what is absolutely certain at the moment is 30 letters of intent signed with local governments as part of piloting. These are the other municipalities that report, which express an interest in cooperation under the National Housing Programme. As for the cities that you have indicated that meet certain requirements, I will say this: the programme is open to all those who want to improve the housing conditions of local societies. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u406	Thank you, Minister. The next question was prepared by Urszula Augustyn, Józef Lassota, Dorota Niedziela, Andrzej Czerwiński, Marek Sowa and Bogusław Sonik from the Civic Platform on underfinancing in 2017 of tasks contracted in the field of family and educational benefits 500+ and activities of adoption centres. A question to the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy. I would ask you to ask Mr Józef Lassota a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u407	Thank you, Marshal. The public assurances of both the Prime Minister and Minister Rafalska are that there is a full security of resources for social assistance tasks. However, reality deviates significantly from these declarations. An example of this is the Małopolskie voivodship carrying out government tasks in the form of tasks commissioned in the field of family and educational benefits, i.e. 500+, and activities of adoption centres. Well, Małopolska voivodeship informed the local government of Małopolska voivodship that the budget law for 2017 planned a total of 1,600 thousand for these tasks. zł. In comparison, the funds transferred from the budget to the Marshal's budget this year amount to 4,700 thousand, so almost 3 million fewer are planned for next year. Similar situations, of course, also take place in other voivodships. I have here an example of an adoption centre in Jelenia Góra, which has been operating for 40 years, where over 2,000. The children have already been put up for adoption. That's where 0 PLN is planned. So this kind of planning, this kind of declaration, it's totally different. Here's what I'm going to say: when it comes to organization, running adoption centers, it's a 57% security in Małopolska. , in the area of family benefits of 9% , and in the case of upbringing benefits, i.e. 500+, at 16%. Of course, it's about those tasks that the marshal does. The Marshal performs some of the tasks concerning those families in which a parent or a parent is abroad. The question is therefore: Is the Minister aware of the situation? [[♪ The bell ♪]] How do you intend to carry out these tasks as announced by the Prime Minister and Minister Rafalski? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u408	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Mr Bartosz Marczuk. [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]] Hello again.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u409	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Members and honourable Members, To clarify the case, the 500+ government pays three intermediaries: municipalities, powiats and marshals. We paid the communes, as promised, 2%. the total transfer, i.e. 350 million this year. We paid 1% of the total of the transfer to the counties for the services of foster families. There are marshals who support the 500+ programme in coordination with social security systems, i.e. 500+, and family benefits. Mr President, next year the marshals will receive more money to serve in this area, i.e. in terms of family benefits and 500+. And where does it come from, let's say, confusion? We've met with marshals, we've met them twice, we've explained. Because this is the first time we have tried to arrange a system of compensation for these tasks. And we met with representatives of the marshals, we met with representatives of the service of the voivodeship, and we developed a common model of remuneration for this task. And this year the planned amount for the service of this benefit is PLN 26,8 million, and next year the planned amount is PLN 30,084 thousand, which is more than this year, because we have assessed these benefits. As far as Małopolskie voivodship itself is concerned, this year for the coordination of family benefits from the 500+ programme Małopolska will receive 2266 thousand, while next year it will receive 3,700 thousand, i.e. 64% more than this year. So that you have a little out of date information. I know where this discrepancy can come from. Well, in ordering this system - so far nobody has just looked at the system - it turns out that in one voivodeship the government pays for one benefit or one case 500 PLN, and in the other voivodship pays 80 PLN. And we were tempted to, since we have the privilege of spending public money to sort it out. We found that next year we would pay the marshals PLN 160 for one case. Because we were organizing this system, we put little money into the voivod's budgets. There's a lot of money in reserve. We explained it to the marshals, sent it to all voivodships, to all marshals' offices, that this is because there is little money in the voivodships' budgets, and in reserve there is a large amount reserved to serve this task. At this point, while we are still working on the budget bill, we have the ambition to introduce an amendment that will move this money to make 80% It's in the voivode's budgets, so the marshals can have a quiet situation here. It is similar with adoption centers. Exactly the same situation. We've organized the system or we're trying to sort it out. The amount that will be allocated to adoption centres next year is comparable to the amount of this year, except that there is a lot of money in the reserve, and there are few in the voivodships' budgets. We will make an amendment to move this money because it was simply a matter of ordering this system. I therefore reassure both the Member, the adoption centres and the marshals who serve coordination tasks at both 500+ and family benefits that this security is. Minister Rafalska and the Prime Minister said that we do not want to commission the municipalities without securing the money. We paid 500+ for the service to the municipalities, paid 500+ for the service to the counties, paid 500+ for the service to the marshals, and next year we will pay more than this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u410	Thank you very much. Please remain on the speaker, because the Member will ask a question from your place. Ms Urszula Augustyn, the Civic Platform Club, will ask the question. This is the second additional question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u411	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The information we're talking about comes from your voivodeship. It was Mr. Voivodeship who gave this information to the Marshal's office and did it with full responsibility. I believe he represents the government in this matter. He provided information on the appropriations transferred, which should be sufficient for approximately 2 months to carry out tasks commissioned to the regional government in 2017. So that's why it's bothering us, that's why we're asking. On the other hand, as if the argument which decided that we were asking this question was that already this year, 2016, as a result of the decision of your voivodeship - also the Marshal of the voivodship learned this from the letter of 12 May 2016 - the funds transferred to carry out tasks are in less than the reported amount demand. Thus, the decision of the voivodship causes that we are not only worried about next year, but also about the fact that this year the tasks which are commissioned by the local government of the voivodship of Małopolska will not be fully realized. To deal with those issues that the government transfers without moving the money, the marshals, the administration will run out of money. That means, for example. The consequences, the implementation of the 500+ family programme will also need to be shifted to the coming months of 2017. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is worrying, all the more so because everyone knows that the money is to be paid, the more that you are bragging about it as a really flagship program. Hence our question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u412	Thank you very much for the question, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u413	You're welcome, Minister. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Bartosz Marczuk: I'm so sorry. You're welcome. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Bartosz Marczuk: It is better to explain these matters to ourselves than to have unnecessary misunderstandings in this matter. Of course, the voivodship provided the information it had regarding the voivod's budget. But we met, as I said, and in October, and in November, and in September. We are in constant contact with marshal officials, with services, because we also negotiated these solutions together with them. We kept saying that once this system was organized... Let me explain what it looks like: Some of the money for this task is in the voivode's budget and some is in reserve. The sum of these two components counts, not just what is in the budget of the voivodeship. The governor told me how much he had in the budget. Indeed, in the budget it has little compared to the previous year, because, as I said, in order to organize this system, we left in reserve a large part of the money so that, as we sort it out, we could properly place this money between the voivodships, since there were such 500 percent differences in one case. Now we are after this process, we have valued this service, this service, one service of marshals at 160 PLN. At this point we will move the money from the reserve that is intended for it, dedicated, back to the voivodeship budget so that there are no such problems related to the current activity. [[I'm sorry, but you're still not talking, Minister, about the money this year. They're missing them. And the voivode doesn't do it, doesn't send them to the marshal.]] This year, the money that has been paid for service of 500+ and family benefits is an amount of PLN 27 million. In our sense, given how we have valued these tasks, and how much will be paid next year, this is a row of 30 million, that is enough. [[We're signaling, Minister, unfortunately not. They don't pass the money.]] Thank you so much for your questions and answers. Let's move on to more questions. They will be asked by Members Barbara Bartus, Mr Halina Szydłoko, Mr Józef Leśniak and Mr Elżbieta Duda. Asking the first question, divided into two parts, starts with Mrs Barbara Bartus, club Law and Justice. You're welcome. The question is on the implementation of the Law on State aid to raise children - Family 500+. It is also addressed to the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy. Minister Bartosz Marczuk will answer the same question. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u414	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! A year has passed since the establishment of the government, Prime Minister Beata Szydło. There are many fulfilled points in the electoral programme of Law and Justice, but it can certainly be said that it was a year under the sign of the Program expected by Polish families. The program, which for the first time since over a quarter of a century in such a significant way supports and strengthens families with dependent children, giving them a sense of security. The 500+ family is not only financial support, it is also, and maybe above all, an investment in Poland's future, because one of its main objectives is to contribute to increasing fertility and halting the demographic crisis. I would therefore ask you to provide detailed information on the "Family of 500+" programme. After almost 8 months after the start of the program we can certainly say more about the implementation of payments by local governments, tell how many people benefit from the program, how many children are entitled to provide education, and also about the effectiveness and the positive effects observed of introducing this instrument of support for Polish families.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u415	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Recently, the media has found disturbing information that the government intends to analyse the effectiveness of the programme, and depending on the results of this analysis, it will decide to continue the programme. Therefore, my question is whether there is really such a threat, because the essence of this program is stability. Therefore, can families feel safe that the program will continue, or is it another scaring of Polish society? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u416	You're welcome, Minister, to respond. We're waiting for you. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Bartosz Marczuk: I apologize most.]] [[Voice from the room: It's not retirement age.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u417	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! With regard to the 500+ family programme and its implementation at the moment, the figures for 31 October, the latest figures, have indeed proved to be a huge undertaking. I am very glad that this program is because as a person involved in matters related to Polish demography, I think that it is perfectly calibrated in terms of Poles' expectations. About why they don't have kids. The research repeats this information all the time: Poles tell us that they want to have far more children than they have, they have intimidatingly few, and as we ask why they have intimidatingly few, because I will remind you that the fertility rate in Poland is 216. place in 224 countries of the world - 216. place in 224 countries of the world - they tell us in these studies that they are simply afraid for their economic future. They're worried about their sense of economic security. Therefore, this support, which is intended to achieve the pronatistic objective, is also intended to achieve the goal of strengthening human capital, which is simply to us as a community it pays off that children are better fed, better taken care that parents can go on vacation with them - that is the other goal. Finally, the third - a reduction of the intimidatingly high poverty rate, even often extreme poverty among the youngest Poles, this programme meets these goals perfectly or will achieve these goals. Indeed, it has proved to be very, very important support, because, in terms of the number of applications submitted, we have 2.88 million, or close to 2.9 million proposals submitted, of which 2.7 million are proposals that are already concluded by the decision. Nearly 70,000. requests are pending. The number of children - it is very important how many children have been included in the programme - at the moment it is almost 3.8 million children. 3.8 million Polish children receive support. 13.2 billion zlotys are the money that has already gone to Polish families. It is worth noting that money also goes to children who are in family forms of foster care. And here we have close to 49,000. children entitled to this benefit. The witness really supports... As far as the number of children is concerned, we have a total of 55% children covered by 500+, while it is clear that it is more directed at those places that were usually impaired. In rural communities we have 63% assisted children in urban and rural communities - 57% , the urban municipalities are 48% I mean, you can see, and it also came from our estimates, that this program in an unusual way raises the income of those families, which are the worst-endowed, first and second deciles, or 10%. Lowest earners. In the first and second decile, this is an increase of a dozen or even a dozen percent in terms of the increase in this income. As far as the effectiveness of the programme is concerned, the second and third objectives, we know that, we have been properly implemented. From the CBOS research that we ordered and which investigated people's behavior, for which they spend money, it is clear that in addition to current needs such as clothing, shoes, families also put away money. That's interesting, he's putting 27% off. families. Families invest in education - 22,25% families, are leaving thanks to this holiday program, which some people might not like, that Poles could go on vacation, but they are going on vacation and it is clear that Poles are normal people. And when it comes to all these allegations that they're gonna be wasting their time, drinking that money, it just doesn't quite add up. When you talk to the mayors of smaller towns, larger towns, they say that there is no such phenomenon, they even see how these families simply invest in themselves. On the other hand, with regard to the continuation of the program, we have included a review of the whole family support system in the bill, it is written in the act. We are to do this by the end of March because it is stated that by the year we will make such an assessment. On the other hand, we have repeated this many times, and Minister Elżbieta Rafalska has repeated it many times - firstly, the programme is planned for many years, because if it is to be effective, then all this... [[Exactly.]] Everyone will simply say that if it is to bring pronatal effects, then people need to know that it is planned for a very long time. Second, there's money for them. And thirdly, with regard to this review, we repeat that 500+ anchors are inviolable, which is 500 PLN from the second child up without income criterion, 500 PLN per first child with income criterion, until the age of 18 500 PLN untaxed - and these anchors of the program are inviolable. On the other hand, when it comes to the review, it is possible to look at how the whole family support system - because we also have different systems - works and maybe draw conclusions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u418	And another two questions, an additional question, two people, Mrs Elżbieta Duda and Mr Józef Leśniak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u419	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, The 500+ family programme is primarily supported by families who want to have more than one child. It is a programme limiting the scale of poverty, but it is the biggest prodemographic program in the latest history of Poland. Today, the fertility rate is 1.2. We're talking about a demographic collapse. And I have this additional question: What is the projected increase in the childhood rate after the introduction of the 500+ family programme? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u420	Dear Minister, According to the Act, the payment of benefits from the 500+ programme is supported by local governments, which in return receive a decent remuneration, a total of 3%. According to the information received in some municipalities, there are considerable delays in the disbursement of funds from the 500+ programme. And here's the question: does the ministry anticipate [[♪ The bell ♪]] introduction of appropriate regulation to discipline those local governments that fail to fulfil their tasks within the deadline? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u421	Thank you very much. And I ask the Minister to answer these questions as well.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u422	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! When it comes to issues related to the projected increase in the fertility rate, as I said, the program in our sense is perfectly calibrated, given the research and the facts we have, i.e. that in Poland the cultural change has not gone so far that Poles do not want to have children. Poles miss a large family and say, as a rule, that they want to have more children, they have intimidatingly few, but when we ask them why, they do not have a sense of economic security. Of course, it is very difficult to predict what this pronatistic effect will be, because the decision to have children is very complicated and depends on each person individually, while all data indicates that this program is up from the second child and is already common... The decision about the first child is not economic, it is more a matter of choosing a life, a certain choice of your own way, and the decision about the second child is already an economic decision. We therefore expect, as we wrote in the impact assessment of the regulation, that the increase in the number of children born within 10 years will reach 300 000. and we expect an increase in the fertility rate from the current 1.3 to 1.6, we would, of course, like it to be even more. The results of this programme are still to be waited for for obvious reasons - the programme has been operational since 1 April. But that's why it's so important to emphasize that he is a multi-annual program, because people decide on offspring at a time when - and that's what international research says, the literature of an object - they will actually believe that he is permanently inscribed in the landscape, because then they can make decisions consciously. On the other hand, in terms of remuneration, as I said, in reply to the Member's question earlier, after consulting the local authorities, we chose this 2% commission, and this is a government of PLN 340 million this year, next year the commission is 1.5 percent, but it will also amount to 340 million. This money goes to the communes and it's money that just... In fact, municipalities, many municipalities, many municipalities tell us that they are quite sufficient and this is actually a paid program. It's not like the program's unpaid. It's the same with counties, as I told you, with marshals. On the other hand, as far as delays are concerned, it appears from my information, as I follow them, that this is an absolute margin for delays, but there are ordinary legal procedures here too, because if the municipality has issued a decision to grant the benefit, it is later obliged to pay the benefit in accordance with the deadline. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And then individually, if you don't pay, you can just complain to the municipality. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u423	Thank you, Minister. And we move on to the next question. They will also be asked by Members of Law and Justice, Mr Mieczysław Miazga and Mr Kazimierz Gołojuch, the first being Mr Mieczysław Miazga - on the social pension law on the suspension of the right to social pensions. This is a question addressed to the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy, and will be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Mrs Elżbieta Bojanowska. I ask Mr Mieczysław Miazga to ask the first question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u424	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The question relates to the Act of 27 June 2003 on the social pension. OJ 2003 No 135, p. 1268, as regards the suspension of the right to a social pension. In view of the previous government initiatives of Prime Minister Beata Szydło in favour of the environment and people with disabilities themselves, I would like to ask the question whether the government is considering the possibility of amending the legal provisions on the elimination of the limits of the social benefit payment introduced by Article. 10 social disability laws. It is this article that provides that the right to a social pension shall be suspended in the month in which the disabled person has earned revenue in the total amount of more than 70% an average wage. At present, this limit is PLN 2927.10 gross. This is contrary to the practice of many countries where additional instruments are used to encourage the employment of disabled people, and to some extent discriminates against them, making workers less remunerated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u425	I ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u426	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The rules governing the granting and payment of social pensions, as the Member said, are governed by the Act of 27 June 2003 on the social pension. According to Art. 4 of this law is entitled to an adult who is completely incapable of working because of an impairment of the body's fitness, which was created before the age of 18 during schooling or at a higher school before the age of 25, or - the third possibility - during doctoral studies or scientific aspirate. The benefit in the form of a social pension is intended for people who, in most cases, never attain independence, live with their parents at adult age or stay in institutional forms of care for many years, such as. Social services homes. These conditions for the acquisition of the right to a social pension mean that the pension is intended for persons who, because of their previous incapacity for work, have not been able to take up a job and have therefore not acquired their own pension rights for incapacity for work and often even the possibility to acquire any professional qualifications. In 2012, in a revised social pension law, in a revised article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6, the right to a social pension shall be suspended for the month in which the total income of more than 70% has been earned the average monthly salary for the calendar quarter recently announced by the President of the CSO for pension purposes. Currently, from 1 September 2016 to 30 November, the suspension shall be made after the revenue of PLN 2813 has been exceeded. Let us remind you that the minimum wage will be 2 000. zł. It is estimated - these are estimates - that already in the current legal state the number of insured persons entitled to a social pension at the same time as at the end of September this year is around 31 thousand, i.e. represents around 12% the total number of persons receiving the pension. It should be noted, however, that the social pension is a compulsory, continuous and protective provision, and its aim is to compensate for the impossibility of acquiring entitlement to benefits from the social security system because this total incapacity for work arose before entering the labour market. Social pensions as benefits from the social security system are financed entirely from the state budget, as are social benefits. However, it should be noted that the social pension is not an income-dependent benefit, since it is not subject to income criteria, as is the case with social assistance benefits. The amount of social assistance similar to a social pension intended for disabled persons who do not have their own pension benefit, which is a fixed allowance, shall be reduced each time by the amount of income held by the entitled person and his/her family. The rules on the payment of social benefits are much more favourable to insured persons. In addition, the suspension of the right to a social pension lasts only for the period of the income and, in the event of the cessation of income, the right to a social pension shall be restored, i.e. the person whose health condition allows him to obtain higher income from work, may take up work without fear that he will not be able to return to that benefit in the future. In view of the above, the Council of Ministers does not plan to take a legislative initiative to remove the limits for making up for social pensions. At the same time, I would like to point out that since 2017 there will be a really unprecedented increase in the amount of social pensions. This is linked to an increase in the amount of the minimum pension. Thus, from 1 March 2017, this pension will amount to PLN 840. Today, on 1 March 2016, it is 741,35 PLN. If we compare the amounts since 2006, we will notice that the increase was by PLN 10.20, here we have a year to year over PLN 100. This is an unprecedented increase in the amount of this pension. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u427	Thank you very much. And I'm asking you to ask me another question. Please, Mr Kazimierz Gołojuch.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u428	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! To date, the government's initiatives by Prime Minister Beata Szydło correlate with expectations and solutions for the employment of people with disabilities. And here I would like to ask the question: Does the government intend to implement good solutions in this area, for example in the Danish model of supporting the employment of people with disabilities, where disabled workers can count on wage subsidies due to reduced working time, and the work of people with disabilities alone can be combined with the collection of disability benefits? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u429	I ask you, Minister, to answer this question as well.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u430	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, By all means, Prime Minister Beata Szydło's government is absolutely in favour of professional activation. Our goal is to make as many people with disabilities work and be in the labour market. On the other hand, the essence we are talking about with the social disability is that this disabled person has a total inability to work. And if the system works and in the case of 12% We say it works, these people have the opportunity, and it would be good even if they came out of this system, suspended this pension and worked fully in the labour market, because it is, as I understand it, our goal. And the essence of that is that the situation of these 12% is incomparable. who are able to enter the labour market and work, with the situation of people who are completely unable to work, e.g. they are obsessively ill and will never appear on this labour market. And that's the essence of a social pension. Because this social pension is, as I said, from the state budget supply system paid to people who are completely unable to work, but somehow this rehabilitation contributed to their exit to the labour market. Thank you. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u431	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. We move on to the next question, including Members of Law and Justice. Mrs Joanna Borowiak will ask the first question and the additional question - Mrs Lidia Burzyńska, the Law and Justice Club, on changes in inclusive education. The question was addressed to the Minister of National Education. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education, Ms Teresa Wargock, will answer. I ask Mrs Joanna Borowiak to ask her first question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u432	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Inclusion education is a beautiful and important task of modern school. It is based on a social model of disability perception recognising that the causes of disability are inter alia. barriers created by society itself, thus social barriers and, alongside them, economic or organisational barriers. It is therefore society that is responsible for reducing the impact of disability and integrating pupils into society. Taking care of students, we should strive to remove all barriers, both those that require financial expenditure and those that require simple empathy. Inclusive education is also a challenge for schools themselves in the psychological, educational or organisational aspects, but also in the architectural and technical areas. Inclusion of pupils with disabilities in the school community is a process, it is not done by the mere fact that a child is in school or kindergarten. This process requires the involvement of many actors: the director, teachers, psycho-pedagogical counselors, parents, as well as the host body. Diversity in inclusive education is a challenge for teachers and makes it necessary for teachers to develop their knowledge and competences on a permanent basis. I have a question: Does the Ministry of National Education plan to extend the catalogue of activities concerning the implementation of inclusive education in schools?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u433	I ask Minister Teresa Wargock to answer the question asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u434	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The idea of inclusive education is very closely linked to the process of social inclusion and the promotion of the idea of involving people with disabilities in social, professional and cultural life. I think that in today's world, no one is questioning this idea, basically all education systems, social systems, social security are pursuing this goal. In view of the activities of the Ministry of National Education, there is a generalisation of inclusive education and an extension of activities in this field, so that general education is fully available for the admission of pupils with special educational needs, ready to provide appropriate support to them. In our education system, education has been largely, albeit inadequately disseminated over the last few years. If we compare school years 2014/2015 and 2015/2016, we will notice this trend: firstly, we are growing the number of children with a ruling on the need for special education at both preschool and primary and secondary education levels. The rate of children and young people in mainstream integration schools is around 60%. There are very different forms of education involving the child in a public school, in a public kindergarten, in public schools with integration departments, in schools with integration classes and in public schools with special offices. We are also fully aware that all special institutions that organise education and care for these young people are also taking action on integration in the local environment. We are talking about the fact that the Ministry of National Education would like the concept of inclusive education, but we would also like to say: we are taking, not in terms of plans, but even in terms of implementation of such actions, so that a child with special educational needs has a ruling that will make it very clear to us what the development needs of a given student are. I'm talking about the International Classification of Functionality, Disability and Health. We are in this area at the first stage of preparation for this model of disability ruling. In principle, the centre of national education is implementing an EU project to develop methods of diagnosis. In October, an international conference was held at the Ministry of National Education, organized in cooperation with the European Education Agency, so that we could also benefit from the experience of other European countries. I think the introduction of this model into our disability ruling system will be a real breakthrough. In fact, we're going to move away from defining and calling disability that it's a child with autism, Asperger's syndrome, or combined disability. In fact, every student with disabilities, each student diagnosed will receive the so-called. a note of needs and benefits, you can say, a prescription, which will very clearly specify what external conditions should be created, so that a child with disabilities can function as far as possible, and what methods of action must be used to stimulate this individual development and help to overcome certain deficits. We are going to, we will want to implement this model into the Polish education system from 2018. Of course, this involves a great deal of work, which must be done both in the area of legislation, as well as in the preparation of psychological and pedagogical counseling staff and paneling for such work. In order to achieve the maximum effect of functional diagnosis, we invited representatives of the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy to cooperate. We would like work to be done in parallel in these ministries as well. Of course, with regard to aid in the field of education, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Whereas it is possible to operate the model of this support in the field of education on the basis of educational institutions on its own, and in order for it to be a holistic model, it would be good that in this Charter of Needs that would be issued, there would also be recommendations in the area of rehabilitation or such assistance in terms of measures, probably PFRON, which could change the environment of a disabled person - I am talking about removing architectural barriers - so that this young man has a very clearly defined scope of his needs and the scope of assistance that is necessary for his rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u435	I would like to ask you an additional question from Mrs Lydia Burzyńska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u436	Thank you. Minister! Thank you very much for presenting such a wide range of activities that the Ministry of Education conducts in the field of inclusive education. Inclusive education is an opportunity to create a normal life for children with disabilities, i.e. among their peers. These children, in spite of fate, can really enjoy life, I will tell you more: they should be and are an example not only for their peers but also for us adults. As a longtime teacher of oligofrenopedagog, I know that these students really love to study. Because the Minister has presented here a number of information extending information on inclusive learning, as well as [[♪ The bell ♪]] information on the possibilities of the Ministry of Education, I have a question. Will the plans of the Ministry include actions that further promote the concept of inclusive learning? I am also referring to parents and society as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u437	I ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u438	Yes, of course, that is the goal of inclusive education. When we talk about education, we think about school, while the word inclusion really applies to all aspects of human life. I think that a diagnosis based on various studies shows that, as a society, we have probably the greatest challenge in order to prepare people with disabilities to the requirements of the labour market to a greater, maximum extent. That's probably the biggest exclusion. We have the lowest employment rate of people with disabilities in Europe, but in order to improve this, we also need to put a very strong emphasis on inclusive vocational education, which should take place in the framework of education. I regret to say that, unfortunately, many ways have been closed in recent years to the acquisition of professional qualifications by people with disabilities. I'm just going to say that the apprenticeship exam is unprepared in terms of disability, there are no adaptations to disability, and there are no so-called professions. ancillary services which were previously in the classification of professions so that these people were prepared to work in simple jobs on their own. This is perhaps our greatest challenge and task in this area, in addition to the actions I have said earlier, i.e. very good diagnosis, assessment of needs and referral to every child with disabilities of real support in all areas that are needed, namely the elimination of disability. This is one element. The second very important element is that the young man, along with his development, should be an active member of an open society as far as possible. This is a very clear task. I would also like to say very clearly that we are very consistent in the position expressed also in the changes in education law, because we have written down in the education system law a very important provision which cared for all the environments of disabled children and disabled young people, that funds in subsidies which are directed through individual weights related to disabilities to disabled children and disabled young people, means in subsidies addressed to local governments must [[♪ The bell ♪]] direct to schools and institutions which include education, special education organize. I think that this is a very clear signal that these funds, and there are really many of them, in the educational grant of about PLN 6 billion, will allow us, in good methodology and in cooperation with other resorts, to take very good care of disabled children and disabled young people. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u439	Thank you very much. Back to point two. Ms Agnieszka Pomaska and Mr Sławomir Nitras will ask a question about the rapid increase in the prices of motor insurance and AC. The question is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers and will be answered by the President of the Council of Ministers, Vice-President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection Dorota Karczewska. Please, sir, we begin with your Member, the Civic Platform Club. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u440	Thank you, Marshal. In my first words, I wanted to express my great regret that none of the representatives of the Prime Minister, the government, has been burdened by one woman, the Vice President of the Competition Office. With all due respect to the President, I think this case is serious enough to be interested in the Prime Minister and the Government. Let me remind you that insurance, especially OC insurance, is a compulsory tribute, which every road user, in fact every citizen who moves in Poland, must pay. Of course, it is very good that this is the case, but as such it should be specifically analysed by the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, because we are all doomed to this tribute, we all have to pay this fee, and the scale of the increases that have occurred in recent months and which we are most likely to be facing is indeed drastic. Let me just remind you that according to Deloitte next year, already taking into account the increases in OC and AC that took place if we consider the prices that are in force at the moment, there will be an increase of at least 100% in increases. in relation to prices that are after increases. It affects 31 million Poles. I don't want to empathize with examples of specific numbers here, because the media is telling us these sizes. There are actually a lot of them. I'm just gonna limit myself to the questions. First: Did the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection control this process in any way? Did he play any part in this process? Is the government, because I am directing my question to the government, going to react in any way and address this problem? Is the Council of Ministers or the UOKiK preparing any proposals that could mitigate the effects [[♪ The bell ♪]] An increase in insurance prices? Doesn't the government fear that with further drastic increases, there will be a situation of not 100,000. Poles, only much more road users will not pay insurance and in fact the number of paying contributions will decrease and the paying contributions will be charged even more? Thank you, Marshal. I'm sorry I missed your time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u441	I ask you, Madam Vice President, to answer your question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u442	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen! By appeasing the honourable Member, I would like to say that... [[And the Poles?]] Poles, consumers. [[Yes, sir.]] First, I wanted to reassure the Member. [[I'm fine.]] As far as this question is concerned, it is indeed in the interpellation of your Members. The situation is very dynamic, and it is clear from my knowledge from the last hours that the Prime Minister has authorised Prime Minister Morawiecki to respond to the Parliamentary Interpellation No 7327, which concerns this subject. So today I'm going to report back to you what we've been able to establish in cooperation with the Financial Supervision Commission, which is currently the market situation. On the other hand, as regards the expectations of the Member of the Government to take a stand, it will appear in response to the interpellation I mentioned. Question addressed to the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection and the Government: Are there any actions being carried out? Of course, the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, in cooperation with the Commission for Financial Supervision, is obliged to monitor the situation on the ground. The first thing we can do is quickly analyze consumer complaints that are affecting to see if there is abuse, pathology in the market. The second thing we are considering is conducting market research, because such situations can sometimes be a field for abuse. I understand that today I do not have to explain to your Members the origin of the increase in the contributions of OC and AC insurance. This genesis was presented by the Financial Supervision Commission. I'll just give you some hard data. Data show that at the end of 2015 there was the highest technical loss from the OC in the history of the Polish insurance market, almost PLN 1 billion, and the total loss of OC for the years 2011 to 2016 amounted to almost PLN 4 billion. That is, today, to ensure that the insurance premium meets the minimum requirements referred to in Article. 33 of the Act on Insurance and Insurance Activities, there is a need to implement this premium. Of course, sir, you are right that certain phenomena may be more evolutionary than revolution. On the other hand, it is important to remember that the problem of the profitability of communication contributions is not just a Polish problem. The financial supervisory authorities of Italy, the Netherlands, Romania are currently facing this issue. In Romania it is a little late because one of the insurers has already fallen and therefore consumers' payments are at risk. So matter is very delicate and you need to use very perfect tools so that in the end you do not cause harm on the part of consumers. It is important to bear in mind that standards in consumer service regarding the elimination of damage continue to increase. I will merely remind you of the Supreme Court's judgments, which came after the intervention of the insured Ombudsman even then, when it is basically standard to receive a replacement car, when the level of compensation is essentially going to higher ceilings here, i.e. these things have taken place. Indeed, from the interpellation of the Member, pessimism is trumped by far-reaching pessimism. I - through market research and market analysis - would consider whether it is as bad as we think it is. We're talking about a sharp increase in contributions. Mr. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. [[We're talking about the question now, not the interpellation.]] ...for drastic increases in contributions, up to 120, even the Member writes 500%. [[The interpellation was four weeks ago.]] So you have to base it on hard data again. And while these extreme cases actually appear and cannot be excluded, and they should certainly be analysed if the case is individual, by the financial officer, if the case has a public dimension - by the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, it should also not be forgotten that according to the calculations of KNF as a result of the increase in the average price of AC and OC have increased by 20% so far, and this argument must be repeated that, if the value of the premiums or the price for insurance policies does not increase, then there is a Petrification of the state of inprofitability of motor insurance, which could, of course, pose a threat to the stability of the insurance system and the payment of compensation. And it is impossible not to see here the correlation between the amount of the premium and the quality of the benefits that are paid for the liability insurance or AC. You are also concerned that the increase in the price of the insurance of OC and AC may result in these contributions simply not being paid. The first reflection that comes to mind here is, however, that the reason for not paying contributions or other public danins, e.g. The RTV subscription is that the systems that enforce these contributions are simply leaky. [[This one's tight.]] This system is tight and probably should not be abused. [[But 100,000...]] On the other hand, you are right that these household expenditures will undoubtedly increase for consumers. [[If a car is less worth than insurance...]] When it comes to hard data, it's today's interpellation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Member States are talking about 100,000. vehicles without OC insurance. This is less than 0.5% all cars that drive on Polish roads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u443	I would like to ask the Member to ask an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u444	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister! Of course, I am addressing you now, although, like my fellow Member, I regret that there are no government representatives here who would take it personally and do something about it. 'Cause unfortunately, after what you said... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Shh...]] ...I have the impression that you're ignoring the problem. On the one hand, the current government is very keen to spend money and boast about how it spends public money. On the other hand, when we're dealing with a raise scale not 3, 5, 10% , but 100% , 200% Or even 500%, you say there's nothing really that bad going on. In this connection, I have a question: Is there any increase of 100%, 200% or even 500% in any of these countries that you have said we are dealing with insurance increases - Holland, Italy, Romania - that you have mentioned - that there are such increases of 100%, 200% and even 500%, as in Poland, within just [[♪ The bell ♪]] A few months? And do you even have any estimate of the scale of these increases? 'Cause I didn't hear that in your speech. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u445	Madame, I am far from ignoring the problem. I'd rather have a problem called how big it is. Because in order to respond properly, you have to measure the problem for the measure to be proportionate. I would just like to point out, Madame, that we have a conflict of two things here: the price level and, at the same time, the protection of what the consumer is about to get. So let's not be schizophrenic here. [[We're not.]] We need to make a deposit so that, at the end of the day, the benefit we want is in the right amount. The fact that there was a price war, that prices were below cost, that consumers were benefitting from it, is undoubtedly. The price war, on the other hand, has an end at this point, and it is indeed necessary to find a solution so that the consequences of this war or the end of the price war are not as drastic as you draw. However, I have a big doubt here that this size is so big. [[For the President of the Office for the Protection of Competition and Consumers, quite bold words.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u446	Thank you very much, Vice President. And we have another question, which will be asked by Mrs Joanna Augustynowska from the Modern Club, on health care for seniors, access to specialists, comprehensive care for seniors and the possibility of creating geriatric units in county hospitals. The question is addressed to the Minister of Health and will be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Mr Piotr Gryza. Please, Madame, ask me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u447	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I worry about the health of our seniors, because in all the data from NIK there is clear information that the number of geriatric doctors in Poland is intimidatingly low. And so the 2015 report said that in Poland in the middle of 2014 there were only 321 geriatrics, i.e. on average 0.8 per 100 thousand. residents. However, these indicators were much higher in other European Union countries: Germany - 2,2 , in the Czech Republic - 2,1 , in Slovakia - 3,1 and in Sweden - close to 8. Polish society is getting old. Persons over 65 years of age currently account for around 15% the population, and by 2035 it will be around 23%. The question is whether the Ministry plans to persuade young doctors in some way to choose this specialty and how to protect themselves from the shortage of those doctors who are trained to provide comprehensive assistance to seniors. Another thing is the question of geriatric beds, because we all know that it is easier to diagnose seniors comprehensively, put them in the geriatric ward and see what the consequences of different actions will be. This makes the quality of health services provided higher, better, while the number of beds that is in Poland, [[♪ The bell ♪]] In a 38 million-dollar ageing society, it's small. And the question - here I will allow myself to extend - is there an idea to use closed county hospitals just to create such geriatric troops? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u448	I ask the Minister to answer his question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u449	Dear Marshal! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, county hospitals aren't gonna be closed, so there's no way to turn them into long-term establishments or geriatric plants. Of course, some transformations may take place, but such a policy... And I answered that in question five. There's no plan to shut down county hospitals. However, in answer to your question, it is true that there is a shortage of geriatric doctors and that we simply need to educate geriatric doctors. Geriatrics is a priority in the residential method of training doctors. It can be said that the direction should be such as to develop geriatric education, that is to say, to support the creation of geriatric centres at medical universities, so that geriatric doctors are as much as possible, because, as you said, the need for these benefits will actually increase due to the demography of our society. On the other hand, when it comes to developing geriatric troops at county hospitals, the Minister of Health looks at it differently. Namely, it's about giving every hospital geriatric support. Already on the basis of... Since 1 June 2016, it is an obligation to carry out the geriatric evaluation procedure, and we are also thinking about it, we plan to make it mandatory, but this is not yet a regulation, but there is an analysis of the geriatric team. So it is more about the direction so that geriatric benefits can be carried out in a competent manner in the hospital, with the support of geriatrics, but of course the perspective that you have said, namely education and the vision of this problem, is in the perspective of the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u450	Would you like to ask an additional question?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u451	Yeah, because...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u452	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u453	...I'll honestly admit that only in Lower Silesia, e.g. in Syców or Środa Śląska, county hospitals have been closed this year, so I don't think you have the full data. These hospitals are empty now. Of course, geriatric help in hospitals is needed. What else is a geriatric unit, and what else is a comprehensive service. This is the first case. Furthermore, I wanted to ask you if you were planning to improve this in any way, about queues to specialist doctors, because if a senior needs to wait for a cardiac procedure for a year, I don't know, glaucoma or cataract surgery for two years, it seems a little unreasonable. Are there any ideas on how to improve this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u454	Minister, before you answer, I must say that yesterday I held a meeting and Mr Kurzepa from the Law and Justice Club also spoke about the closure of the county hospital. Therefore, in addition to this remark, I myself witnessed this information because I was holding a meeting. He appealed to the Prime Minister for help.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u455	The head of the district hospital is the county, and the authorities operating local government hospitals are local government units and they are ultimately making the decision. On the other hand, I said on a scale of the whole system, from the position of the Minister of Health: there are no plans to liquidate hospitals. Hospitals are transformed and this decision is taken by the local government if it is the lead authority. As for the idea of reducing queues - queues it is not a new thing, it has not appeared during this year, only this is the issue of access to benefits in general and in every system there are queues to healthcare services - it is about ensuring that they are as small as possible and guaranteeing access to benefits to those who need it. The answer to this is systemic and this system proposal will be implemented, i.e. strengthening the competence of the primary healthcare doctor, taking responsibility for the part of the benefits that the primary healthcare doctor should perform, as well as a certain coordination of the benefits, which is to determine responsibility, as well as the appropriate flow of information, because the important element of coordination is the flow of information between the primary healthcare doctor and the specialist who is responsible for the continuation of the treatment or simply, as it is in the concept of extending the primary healthcare doctor's competence, supports the primary healthcare doctor in his activities for the benefit of patients. This is the idea at the moment, and in view of this change should be effective. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u456	I also thank the Minister very much for coming back to the Sejm to bring this question to an end. This question concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. We proceed with the examination of item 28 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that information on the road and motorway construction programme and the tender for the construction of roads and motorways will be discussed at the present meeting of the Sejm. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and representatives of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not last more than 90 minutes. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Mirosław Suchon. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u457	Thank you very much, my dear marshal. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! State ownership of roads and extensive infrastructure for centuries has been regarded as a sign of a highly developed culture and a civilizational possession that cannot be overestimated. The ability of road builders - the ancient Romans, best punctuated by the famous saying: All roads lead to Rome, are proverbial and constitute the foundation of modern European civilization. Construction of roads and motorways is one of the most important tasks of today's country. Thanks to the new roads that improve communication accessibility, regions emerge from exclusion and gain a new impetus for development. The construction of roads concerns Poland as a whole. We will find examples in every voivodship and we can mention one of the most important roads for the Lesser Poland agglomeration, but also the southern part of the Silesian voivodship, namely S52, called the Beskydy Integration Road, from the border in Cieszyn to Głogoczów, or about S1, including the passing of Hungary's Górka. These important roads can be mentioned further: A2 to Terespola, S3, S5 Wrocław - Gdańsk by Poznań and Gniezno, S6, S7, S10, S11, S12, S14, all the way to Eastern Poland, namely S19, S74, which is important for Świętokrzyskie, DK 8 Wrocław - Kłodzko, the road Brzesko - Nowy Sącz, the road bypass in the north of Szczecin, the ring road Niemodlin, Kędzierzyn-Koźl or finally the tunnel to Świnoujście, and the Members will surely list these roads in a much larger number. It's not all roads, of course, but let's move on. The national road construction programme, approved in 2015 for the period 2014-2023, with a view to 2025, sets out the directions for the development of the national road network in Poland. It establishes the completion of the construction of express roads and motorways and the construction of bypasses in national roads. The investment included in the programme is expected to amount to PLN 107 billion. Unfortunately, the increase in the number of motorways, express roads until October 2016 compared to 2015 was only 80 km. It was not better in 2015, but in public space information first appeared about the cessation of tenders for roads and then about their re-starting. This raises a valid question about how this delay will affect delays in the implementation of the programme. The programme of construction of national roads for the years 2014-2023 and with a view to 2025 was set aside for spending this year, in 2016, 17.707 billion PLN. In view of a number of contradictory, but also very worrying, information within the public opinion concerning the construction of roads and motorways and tenders in this area, we ask the Minister to provide comprehensive and up-to-date information in this regard. In particular, Minister, we would ask you to address the following issues: Have all tenders for the construction of national roads planned to be carried out in 2016 been conducted and settled? Will all sections of national roads planned be completed in 2016? What is the distribution of funds into national roads, how much will be spent in 2016, and is it in line with the plan - I remind you - it is over PLN 17 billion - and how will it be in the perspective of 2017, when the funds to be spent are much more, probably PLN 23 billion? The next issue, I think, is the most interesting: How does the resort intend to solve the problem of underestimating the road construction program? As I said, the most interesting question is where to get additional revenue for the fund, because when we look at the programme and the last regulation on the road network, we see that all these are undoubtedly important roads and these funds need to be found. So I'm guessing the government is waiting to make decisions on this matter. I would very much like to ask the Minister to provide information on this matter. Finally, whether the resort is working to modify the requirements for road construction, e.g. concerning the so-called screen farms that exist all over Poland are well and, worse than that, are still built? Minister, I have such a request - I do not know if this is possible, I assume that it is rather so - that in this first part the Minister would be kind to refer to general issues of macro importance, because these are very important issues, but because people are interested in details, I would very much ask that in the second part - I will still talk about it - he gave [[♪ The bell ♪]] you have as detailed information as possible about the specific roads we are asking about, but also about those that Members will ask about. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u458	Thank you very much, sir. And I will ask for an answer from the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction of Mr. Jerzy Szmit. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u459	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank you very much for launching the discussion on road construction in Poland. This is an extremely important aspect of the work of the Government of Law and Justice. One of our main priorities is to make the road system in Poland coherent, to make it safe, to make it comfortable to travel better, safer and that the roads - as the Member is gracious to say - actually serve economic development. The current national road construction programme for 2014-2025 is set up on 8 September 2015, so just before the elections. This is important because, even when the programme was consulted socially at the beginning of the year, it was more or less balanced, it was slightly over PLN 100 billion, while its final shape included tasks, the cost of which was estimated by the general management at nearly PLN 200 billion. This is really very important information. Besides, this implies the various problems that you have been talking about. It is these questions, which road will be built, which will not be built, whether this is the main question of how the government intends to deal with the problem of underestimation of the road programme. And here again - and I will repeat it on every occasion - I will say that it was not this government that underestimated the road program, but it was not appreciated by the predecessors. They left us this assignment, and today they ask: " How are you going to deal with it? ' [[You have a chance to appreciate it.]] This is indeed one of the most important tasks facing the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction. How are we going to answer that question? First of all, we intend to complete the main communication lines in Poland, which have been created for many years. But for many years it was also so with regard to the road investments carried out, that they mainly concerned the east-west direction, i.e. the direction which corresponds to our neighbours, but did not always correspond to the interests of the Republic of Poland. Then, as I'm going to mention those decisions that have already been made by the government of Law and Justice, one by one, the state, I think, having a map in my head... I'm going to quote the names of the different sections one by one, and it's going to be, first and foremost, the part in the mid-south direction. These are the most important decisions that are made in Poland today. Ladies and gentlemen, what else do I want to make clear at the beginning of my speech? Well, we decided to build two extremely important road routes for Poland. It is Via Carpatia, the road artery that will connect the entire eastern part of the European Union, from the Baltic Sea, from Tallinn or perhaps even further, to Helsinki, further through Slovakia, Hungary, Romania, Bulgaria to Turkey. There is also a proposal to extend the road path to Iran and thus already enter Asia. The second extremely important artery is Via Baltica. There have already been specific decisions made here. This is North-East Poland, an extremely important road route. Ladies and gentlemen, this is... So the first goal is to tighten the communication strings. The second objective is a rational and realistic reduction in road construction costs - this is already part of the answer to the question of how we intend to implement the road construction programme - because without a real reduction in road construction costs, while maintaining sustainability, while maintaining quality, this will simply not be possible, and at least it will not be possible, it is also necessary to make it clear to ourselves in this time frame that we are talking about today. As far as the European Union is concerned, the second, next perspective starts in 2021, so it is still on the agenda and it will certainly be possible to use the resources from a new perspective for the implementation of this programme, which I am not hiding, we are very counting on. I ask you to address this problem, at the beginning of the year, at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, the decision of Minister Andrzej Adamczyk was set up a steering committee consisting of representatives of the general directorate, scientific community, contractors, designers, localities and trade unions. The aim was to work together to develop both legal changes, technical changes and institutional discussions between contractors and contracting authorities and the social side. Let me remind you that what happened... We absolutely cannot imagine that the situations that occurred in road construction in 2012 and 2013 would be repeated when thousands of Polish companies went bankrupt. How often it was written, the construction of Polish roads flowed through the blood of Polish companies, unfortunately, this happened. In order to learn from this, we have created this body that I mentioned. The effects of his work are already visible. A team of experts was formalized, by decision of Minister Andrzej Adamczyk, in which these main environments related to construction and road infrastructure are present. Today, they are working on model contracts, how to annex them, principles of compliance with different conditions, fair competition, as well as how to ensure the right social conditions in construction. We do not want to escalate claims anymore, but we must also remember that the disputes that the predecessors left us with regard to road construction, that is almost PLN 10 billion - these are the claims against the general management. These are real problems that we have to deal with and deal with today. In addition, we propose: legal changes - there have already been changes in public procurement law; technical changes - we develop a catalogue of typical bridge facilities, but we also propose other technological solutions; finally, funding, ladies and gentlemen. Of course, the main source of financing for road construction in Poland, and this will remain, is the National Road Fund - with all financial problems, with all debt problems - it is and will remain the main source of financing for road construction in Poland. Of course, we do not close, and we have such talks with the Ministry of Development, and we also want to introduce a wide-ranging public-private partnership and para-commercial sources of financing for road construction. Often different environments encourage us to do so, but we must remember that if we introduce a commercial element on the road, i.e. in road construction, there is always the other side of this medal, which means that we will have to introduce charges for these roads. This is, say, accepted in Poland when it comes to truck traffic, it is accepted, it is accepted only when it comes to motorways in passenger traffic. Besides, we have the lowest toll rates in Europe for passenger traffic: on motorways 10 gr per 1 km is one of the lowest rates on... I'm talking about the rates that are on those parts of the highways that are administered by the general management. Unfortunately, these rates are higher in the concession holders. Ladies and gentlemen, one minute to go. Current status. Well, today we are carrying out tasks of nearly PLN 81 billion. The implementation includes 93 tasks, PLN 51.5 billion. The tender includes 63 tasks of PLN 29 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, there is further information on what has been decided and done in road construction over the last year. Well, the tasks addressed to the first stage of the tender, I am talking about the road S61 Ostrów Mazowiecka to the state border, the value of the task 3336 million PLN. Tasks addressed to the second stage of the tender, from 1 January to 15 November this year, that is 15 tasks [[♪ The bell ♪]] for the total amount of PLN 10 billion. As far as the tasks that have been addressed are concerned, and so the first, most important step has been taken to build a path, we have three giant investments here. I am talking about S3 Bolków - Lubabka, about A1, which is the completion of the A1 motorway over 81 km, and the construction of S61 on the section from Ostrów Mazowiecka to Szczuczyn. In total, these three giant investments will absorb expenditure from the National Road Fund at the level of nearly PLN 10.5 billion. From November 16th Ub. I'm not going to read it anymore, because the list is...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u460	Minister, you still have the second part of your speech. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Jerzy Szmit: I'm almost done, Marshal. 25 contracts were signed, 25 investment tasks worth a total of PLN 11 700 million. [[How much? Twenty?]] 25. Ladies and gentlemen, probably on this... I hope that the discussion will not be over, so thank you very much, Marshal. Thank you, Minister. I would like to inform you that Members of the debate have come forward. Would any of you like to join the list, although it has already counted 49 names, and I can only save 30 unless the speeches are shorter. There are no volunteers, so I'm closing the list. I'm opening a discussion. The first one will be Rafał Weber, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u461	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The discussion on road construction in Poland should start with a financial analysis, but also an analysis of the documentation of the road network, which results from the National Road Construction Programme prepared by the previous government. It was prepared and used as a tool for the election campaign. Exactly 8 September 2015, or 40 September 2015 a few days before the elections to the Sejm and the Senate, the resolution of the Council of Ministers amended this program, adding tasks to it for the construction of roads - almost all the ones needed in Poland. And it turned out that the task costs amounted to PLN 200 billion in total, while budgeting is guaranteed at PLN 107 billion. And now actually the current management of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction has a very big problem with which investments to implement in the first place. It is not only a financial problem, but also a documentary problem, because many of these tasks are not so prepared that even when they find funds they can be implemented by 2023. I am not talking about the fact that there are no projects, but there are not even selected variants of certain roads, not even express roads, in some cases. And that is the basic factor from which we should start discussing this. On the other hand, I have a question for the Minister on a specific S19 express road, which was not seen by the previous government as a strategic road for the eastern part of our country. Minister, what's going on with the construction of the S19 road right now? Are these issues, as far as they are concerned? [[♪ The bell ♪]] have recently accelerated the announcement of the next stages in relation to this road? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u462	Thank you very much. Mr Stanisław Żmijan, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u463	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Of course, a word to the Member of the previous speaker. Well, if we ask questions and use arguments, let's talk about facts. Mr President, this programme, our National Road Construction Programme, has been developed over the years, and really its design... [[When was he admitted?]] One second. ...is also a construction involving the state, I would say, with a significant share of Law and Justice. When the Civic Platform with PSL took over... [[When was he admitted?]] ...she didn't waste any time, she just started doing it, and in this respect, we were successful. And in this context, the question immediately to the Minister, because the Minister came to the Ministry not from foreign territory, but from the Sejm, where he also served as a member of the Committee on Infrastructure. Don't you have a minister who feels like he's running away, a time that's been lost forever? Will you - and we, in fact, Poland - run out of time to use EU funds? I would like to remind you that since the beginning of the year - and you have clearly stressed, of course on the basis of objective criteria, economic, social, transport of goods and services, the intensity of traffic, in particular, you have stressed the territorial cohesion of the country repeatedly - until today this programme is motorways, 1800 km A1, A2, A4, or 2 000, if we add A18, and 5 000. km of high-speed roads [[♪ The bell ♪]] For almost 19,000. km of national roads in total. So it's one question, and now it's detailed. Minister, it's very good that you're consequently...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u464	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u465	... He's decided that the freeway...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u466	...thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u467	... A2 from Warsaw to Terespola will be built, this section in the standard highway, not...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u468	Mr President, you are taking time away from your colleagues.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u469	...roads of section 2 + 1, based on the company...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u470	Mr Krzysztof Sitarski, another speech...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u471	...a special purpose. Tell me how advanced your work is... [[Marshal, turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u472	... Kukiz.15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u473	...on the establishment of this company. Thank you very much. Excuse me, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u474	I remind you two minutes. Your friend at the club just asked me if I could cut it down to a minute and a half. Unfortunately, it's two minutes by the book, but I told you that the less time it takes, the more people it can fit in time. We have as much loss as we have. If everyone's gonna perform, not even this 30's gonna fit. I would like to ask you to speak again, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u475	Good morning, Mrs... I mean, thank you, Marshal. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] I'm gonna adjust here for the time being. [[The road discussion is hot.]] So, Minister, my question concerns spatial planning and ecology. I would like to stress that cities of the Silesian Voivodship are struggling with low emissions, e.g. Fisherman. One of the reasons is transportation, including car transport. Does the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction take into account urban development phenomena? The roads, which are originally national roads with a minimum status, lead and new ones are also designed, by the centres, by residential areas, which are plagued with heavy noise related to bulk and bulk transport. In Rybnik, a proposal was made for a pike in the city's coat of arms to be equipped with a gas mask. And the second question about the construction of the exit from the A4 motorway towards Prudnik. How will the future of this construction be shaped, and will this investment be taken into account this time? The new exit could be built halfway between the current and Dąbrówka Górna junctions, forming a connection to the road 414 from Prudnik's side. The Marshal of the Opolskie Voivodship is favorable, the investment itself for the Prudnik district would be crucial, it would be a key solution to increase the attractiveness and competitiveness of the entire region, which is neglected there industry has been withdrawn from previous governments. There has been a situation that the Marshal of voivodship is in favour of investment, the Euro MP of Law and Justice is in favour of investment, and the management of the Opole branch of national roads and motorways claims that the road network is sufficient. I don't know what roads I'm on right now. They move there, but probably only on the A4 motorway because the local roads are very neglected. Thank you, Marshal, and I'm sorry. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u476	I don't know what you're apologizing for, but thank you for speaking. [[Voice from the hall: He, he, he!]] [[Voice from the room: But it's for us.]] On the other hand, those Members who are still in line ask if we can reduce speaking time to a minute so that everyone can fit in. [[Up to one and a half minutes, Marshal.]] No. [[Up to 1.5.]] [[Voice from the room: No.]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Well, if there's no consent, ladies and gentlemen... [[Voice from the room: One minute, please.]] One minute? But I need everyone's consent, ladies and gentlemen, because I can't cut myself short. [[Voices from the room: Yes.]] [[Maybe a marshal, maybe.]] Okay, let's say one minute. If anybody gets past it a little bit, it's gonna... [[Your marshal, 1.5, because it's not enough.]] [[Voices from the room: One minute.]] Mr President, I always allow you to speak longer, but now we have 50 Members. If you cross 20 seconds, I won't say anything. [[Okay, thank you.]] Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, Modern Club - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u477	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am a Member of the Podlaskie Voivodeship. Unfortunately, Eastern Poland was neglected by all governments in terms of road infrastructure. Maybe I'll start with the S8 road from Białystok to Warsaw. It is already under way, but, Minister, I have a question as to whether it will actually end in a year's time, which is at the end of 2017, as is the assumption that there will be no delays. But the S8 doesn't just end in Bialystok, it goes on to Augustow. Now, unfortunately, the national eight is the way of death, and hundreds of people die every year. So I have a question: What about this road, what about the road from Bialystok to Augustów? It is known that if it were created, the Augustians would grow much faster. The next way is the S61 road. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Minister said it would be built. The question is when. Finally, I would like to ask you about the route of S19 Via Carpatia. With great concern and surprise, I accepted the information published by the Gazeta Prawna Journal on 2 November 2016 that in the planned change of the Via Carpatia route it was intended to skip Białystok. Is that true, Minister? If so, how will this road go? [[Voice from the room: Time!]] And the question is whether the course of the road will be through Sokóka or through Knyszyn, as planned. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u478	As you can see, not very much after a minute. Please, Mrs Andżelik Możjanowska, a club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u479	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Minister knows what I'm gonna ask... [[Then why do you ask?]] ...about the construction of the Kępno ring road on the S11 expressway. I ask again because time flies and decisions are not made. [[Eight years.]] Well, it's built... No, sir, it has been the last four years that roads have been built. The tender for the first stage of the Kępna ring road was on 31 October 2014, the contract on 7 October 2015, the ZRID received at the end of November 2015 in the framework of the "Project and build' stage. What about stage two? Minister, this invitation to tender for the second stage of the Kępna ring road was also announced in 2015. From the reply of the Director of the Branch of the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways in Opole, I received information that on 19 May 2016 the first stage of the tender procedure was completed, 19 contractors will soon be invited. [[♪ The bell ♪]] to submit an offer. The contract will probably be signed with the contractor in the fourth quarter of this year. The General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways has completed all formalities, sent appropriate documentation to the Ministry. Minister, when will the funds be available for the construction of the second stage of the Kępno ring road? First stage nothing It doesn't, you know it. You said 25 contracts were signed. [[Voice from the room: Time!]] There's another one waiting for you, Minister. All the formalities, all the documents are ready. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u480	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Gonciusz will be the next one, but I just wanted to tell the Minister that Mr Krzysztof Truskolasz is asking for a written reply. [[He didn't say.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u481	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I don't think there's any doubt in this room that we've been building too expensive in Poland for the last few years when it comes to road construction. Poland built the most expensive motorways in Europe in relation to real external conditions. I would like to point out that, according to my knowledge, a heavy burden is e.g. construction of bridges, overpasses. However, recently there has been a lot of information about the creation of a special bridge construction catalogue, which would introduce universal, proven, repeatable projects to significantly reduce the cost of further investments. I would like to ask the Minister whether work is being done on setting up such a catalogue of proven, good solutions in road construction and what simplification it will contain. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u482	Thank you very much, sir, especially for the example of time travel. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Civic Platform Club, another statement. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u483	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! First of all, I wish you success in building roads. There's a relay here. We have prepared a program that you carry out, previously it was the other way around. We've handled this program. [[Ha, ha.]] But funding was crucial. We didn't get the money either. We've just found the financial instruments we've put in the National Road Fund, and the constructions have started. I have therefore a question, because in the programme we have expenditure for 2016 at the level of PLN 17 707 million, of which from the National Road Fund 12 792 million. What is the implementation of these financial assumptions? I would add that European funds are to fund the National Road Fund with 5432 million. [[♪ The bell ♪]] If we're not building, and we've been holding up a lot of buildings lately, that means we won't have any refinancing. If we don't get refinancing this year, the whole road construction plan is gonna fall apart. And that is my key question, and I ask you to answer in writing: How are we going to implement this investment financing schedule? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u484	Thank you very much. Mr Sylvester Khrushch, Kukiz.15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u485	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have two questions. The first question concerns safety on our roads. So far, we have had some sections of the high-speed routes that we have given away without the activities of the ILO, i.e. passenger service places, and without petrol stations. It was a big negligence because it caused fatal accidents. I think a full investment, a finished investment is when we have ILOs, because... [[The name needs to be changed.]] Maybe that's the third point. So I have a question: Will future investments be built together with the ILO? That's the first question. I have a second question about Szczecin's western ring road. This road is not physically present until today, but it is probably on the Wałcz ring road by the second bypass in West Pomerania, which will be necessary, also for the safety and development of the city of Szczecin and the entire agglomeration. I have a question: How do you see the development of this road? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will she be included in a closer development strategy? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u486	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club, another statement. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u487	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you three things. The first thing is the road S1 Bielsko-Biała - Costy. This is an absolutely crucial road for southern Poland, in fact a key road for the whole of Poland, because it connects our country with the border with the Czech Republic and with the border with Slovakia. I wanted to ask, when will this road begin? During this road there is also the ring road of the Hungarian Mountains, also extremely important, because these trucks that go there, these cars poison the inhabitants. So these are extremely urgent investments. The third point that I want to ask you is the third road, the Beskidian Integration Road S52. It is important both for the southern part of the Śląskie voivodship and for the entire Lesser Poland agglomeration, because it connects Beskidy with the Krakow agglomeration on the one hand, opens these areas to a new market, because it will allow residents to gain a new impetus for development. [[♪ The bell ♪]] On the other hand, it allows inhabitants of the Lesser Poland agglomeration to travel freely to the border and further, abroad, towards the Czech Republic and Slovakia. So that it is extremely important. I would also like to ask the Minister for a positive answer on this path. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u488	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Polak, club Law and Justice, another statement. [[I'm here, Marshal.]] Oh, I see. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u489	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, I'm gonna ask you a quick question, following my previous speaker's footsteps. The next year's budget for the implementation of the National Roads and Motorways Programme provides for measures of 4 314 691 000. zł. I just wanted to ask: Does this amount include funds for the implementation of an investment called: Construction of the Beskidz Integration Road? Of course, I mean the costs of preparatory work. I wanted to ask: When will such work begin? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u490	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Hok, Civic Platform Club, another statement. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u491	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a specific question about the path of S6, the road between Szczecin and Gdansk. This is a very important road, most important for the Polish coast, which connects Szczecin with Gdańsk, which connects the largest ports of Szczecin-Świnoujście with ports in Gdynia, also with ports such as Kolobrzeg, Darłowo, Ustka. It is a road which hundreds of thousands, or maybe millions of Polish tourists, and not only reach Polish towns where the only industry for people is the tourism industry. Our local entrepreneurs are waiting for these tourists there. Is it true, Minister, that this road is in serious danger? Is it true that the section between Koszalin and the Tricity will not be implemented in 2017? If that is the case, please tell us today officially and give this information also to the Pomerania people who are waiting for it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u492	Thank you very much. Mr Adam Szłapka, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u493	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We have a question about three specific routes. I'll ask you according to the state of play. First of all, at what stage is the implementation of the S5 road from Poznań to Wrocław? I know the case is pretty advanced there. The question to the Minister is: Is the implementation of this route going according to plan and is it safe to give this section? Secondly, what is the implementation of the S11 road from Poznań to Katowice? I am particularly interested in the bypasses of Jarocin, Kępna and Ostrów Wielkopolski. For now, it's only in the plans. There's no tender yet. Question: "When will this whole episode be?" This is an important connection between Poznan and Szczecin. [[Katowice.]] Meet Katowice. But, as I understand it, Szczecin is also interested. [[Voice from the room: To Kolobrzeg rather.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u494	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u495	But I still have a question about the S12 route. For now this road is planned from Piotrków Trybunalski to Dorohuska, to the border with Ukraine. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's very important to expand the plan to build this road... [[Voice from the room: Depends on who has a perspective.]] ...also about southern Wielkopolska, about Lubuskie Voivodeship, to the German border. Are such plans prepared and is it possible to complete the plan for the construction of this road? Thank you very much. [[Why is Modern so long?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u496	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Olszówka, Club Law and Justice. There's no envoy. In that case, Mr Waldy Dzikowski, Civic Platform Club. [[I'm coming, I'm coming.]] [[Waldy's gonna fix you.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u497	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Minister, I wanted to ask you about the decision to finally find the S11 road in the program, on the list of the main national road and highway construction programme. And the road S11 is Poznan - Katowice - Poznań - Kołobrzeg. [[No, Kolobrzeg - Katowice.]] I say there is an important city of Poznań inside. That's what I'm saying. S11 is a very important road. Previously, I asked that question, but I didn't even get a precise answer, but I didn't really get an answer. [[Voice from the hall: This is a very important road.]] You said I'd find this answer in a verified new plan and a basic list. It's been a month. There's no plan. Minister, in that case... And there is information that there may be alternatives, e.g. south by S5 and A1 or north by Kolobrzeg by A2 and S6. Whether this is true and whether this road will actually be included on the list of the basic national road and highway construction program [[♪ The bell ♪]] And when will this information finally be officially made available to all of us? I'm asking you to answer in writing as well, Minister. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u498	Thank you very much. [[A2, S3 and S6. There's no connection.]] [[S3 and S6.]] Mr Wojciech Skurkiewicz, the Law and Justice Club, another statement. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u499	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to raise a few points in this minute's speech. Firstly, I would like to ask the Minister about the plan of the Ministry and the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways for 2017. Which investments will determine countries for the next year, as is the continuation of tasks started or carried out in 2016, with particular reference to national road No 7, among others. on the Mazowieckie episode, between Warsaw and Grójce? My next question is related to the national road construction programme. There is a road S12, unfortunately the Civic Platform forgot to enter this path for the coming years, even though Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz, premier from Radom, supposedly did not include my hometown on this list and in this investment. I'm talking about modernising this road and adapting to the standards of the express road in the Mazowieckie section, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Shortest measure, from Piotrków to Puławy through Radom. What are the investment plans for this route, or is there a chance that this investment could start around 2020 and not, as the Platform planned, after 2030? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u500	Thank you. Mr... [[Thank you, Marshal. Allow me to use my time.]] ... Sławomir Nitras, Civic Platform Club. Your minute, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u501	Thank you. Minister! On 12 October 2015, the Directorate-General announced tenders. The first stages of the tenders concerned three sections of the missing northern part of S3. One renovation, two investments. It's been a year and you haven't moved on to stage two. It usually lasts six months. It took you over a year and we're all waiting. I know that you were in Szczecin a few weeks ago with Marshal Brudziński - I am particularly surprised that such small things can be caught - and you signed a letter that you agree to the transfer of money. There's no procedure. There's no procedure for the Minister's consent. [[Yes.]] The Minister of Finance agrees at the first stage of the announcement of the tender. And that agreement was long ago. I'd like to ask you when you can handle this, gentlemen, because you're holding back these stages. The same is true from the south. I'd like to ask if at the second hand with the CEF really fairly - and I ask for an honest answer - you'll bet on the Bolków section - Lubabek, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Or another episode, because I know exactly that this is your decision. I expect an honest answer: yes, Bolków - Lubabka will be our decision regarding CEF as our priority. The road S3 is the road - I have no intention of convincing anyone - from the border to the port. I don't want to convince anyone how important she is. But you gentlemen have done nothing about this road for a year. I say it calmly and without politics, speed up the process. I want to hear from you from your mouth that you're gonna file this co-financing request with the CEF, and you're gonna defend it in the south, that you're gonna announce tenders to the north, and you're not gonna hold anything back. [[Time.]] You've wasted a year of your time. The Member is right - time. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[You're out.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u502	It is now Mr Grzegorz Furgo, the Modern Club. Here you go, another statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u503	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Once again, you are failing to keep your word. First you promised the inhabitants of Słupska voivodship. It didn't work out. Now, by stopping the construction of the S6 road, the government is proposing an economic desert. Those are not my words, so say the local government and entrepreneurs from Słupsk, who are sending a protest to Prime Minister Beata Szydło at the moment. This is, ladies and gentlemen, a key investment in the development of Pomerania. You're making conflicting communications. Once the resort ensures that the implementation of the route is safe, and once the Deputy Minister of Infrastructure and Construction, Mr.Jerzy Szmit reduces the importance of building the S6 route between Słupsk and Tricity. As I know, preparations are very advanced, tenders are being tendered, and there is no financial problem, because there are savings in tenders, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which have already been decided. For this reason, the decision to suspend investment seems absurd. According to the Baltic daily, the express road is to be built after 2020 following the Radio Gdansk. I would like to get your opinion on what stage we are at. Of course, I would like to ask for a written reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u504	Mr Piotr Polak, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u505	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a few questions, Minister. Is it true that by 2020 in the Łódź voivodship, because about this region I will ask, there will be important road investments from the Tuszyn node to the border with the Śląskie voivodship? Highway A1, route S14, there's been so much confusion around her lately. Will there be an uprising? Is it true, Minister, that the Bełchatov ring road will be returned shortly, and that it will be long, four months in advance? I would like to ask if there are data in the Ministry, Minister, on the average cost of building one section of the motorway, building 1 km of the motorway in the framework of the previous tenders and the current tenders, because we heard that previous tenders for the construction of motorways in Poland were unfortunately very expensive. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u506	Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u507	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The A1 motorway in Silesia is very important, one of the most important motorways, connecting Upper Silesia with the south and north. Of course, as far as the last section of the A1 motorway is concerned, the platform started this, you are implementing it on the Pyrzowice - Częstochowa section, but we still have a section about 80 km on the Częstochowa - Tuszyn route. Minister, you mentioned this episode. I would like to hear from you whether full funding is provided for this section, when you will proceed with the specific implementation of this section and when we can expect this section to be opened, opening Silesia in a northern direction. Second question. On the A4 section of Katowice - Kraków, but probably on many other sections of toll motorways, renovations are underway. [[♪ The bell ♪]] These renovations take a long time. I wanted to ask the Minister what the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction, Adamczyk, is doing in order to reduce tolls for these motorways during or during the repair of motorways. Many times here from this bleacher he screamed that it should be done, that it could be done. Today is the year, until today we pay, as we have so far paid. When is the Minister able to carry out this operation so that toll motorway users have reduced fees during the modernisation or renovation of these motorways? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u508	Thank you, sir. Mrs Marta Golbik, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u509	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Me, too, on the subject of toll collection on the A4 motorway. Silesian local authorities have been operating for years under conditions of uncertainty regarding charging rules on the section of the A4 motorway between Gliwice and Jaworzno. Currently, e.g. for the inhabitants of Gliwice this part of the highway operates within the so-called. a zero ticket, because it was reasonable to assume that this route was the southern ring road of the city on this section. Unfortunately, the signals from the Ministry regarding the future of toll collection in this section are not clear. On this occasion, I would like to ask you about the planned conditions for toll collection on the A4 motorway in the Silesian Voivodeship in the next 5 years. I believe that a clear position by the Minister would cut off any speculation in this regard. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u510	Thank you very much. Mrs Barbara Bartus, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u511	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! After 8 years of government, the Civic Platform and PSL left not only a road construction program without proper security, without money for this program, which results, among others. The fact that we are worried about our decision-making, the road popularly called the decision-making, but also the Platform with PSL left areas completely excluded, including my Gorlice district. Not only is there no road in the program that would rub not only about Gorlice, but even about the entire county, but we can't count on it for now. I already know that there's no money at this point for these reasons. The government of the Civic Platform and PSL after its 8 years of government left Polish entrepreneurs, subcontractors who simply went bankrupt. They were gonna make money building highways on this big boom of ours, and there was a big bankruptcy. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I know that the Polish government, the Polish budget paid extra money. I know he doesn't have any money for another paycheck. I know what we've been talking about here many times... [[Time.]] ...there's a lot going on in court. On the other hand, Minister, I would like to appeal whether this could not be given to the relevant services - to check these contracts, to conclude these agreements. Why did it happen that so many Polish entrepreneurs went bankrupt in the construction of roads? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u512	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Ajchler from the Civic Platform Club is not here. So, please, Mr Witold Zembaczyński, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u513	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you about the prospect of construction of roads, especially bypasses in the Opolskie Voivodeship, which I represent dignifiedly here in the Sejm. In the case of road investments in Opole it has always been so that the individual governments unfortunately assumed that we there in the south-west would always be able to manage on our own. But it turns out that apart from the fact that we're doing okay, we still need this: we're gonna be okay. So when I asked about the time schedule, I wanted to ask especially about the ring road Kędzierzyn-Koźla and Niemodlin, as well as the exit from A4 at the intersection with road No. 414 - mentioned here by a colleague - who would actually connect the town of Opole, but also the Prudnicki district with A4, and other bypasses for which documentation is already ready, this is about Thinking and Praszka. I would very kindly ask the Minister to make a written reply. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u514	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Kilian from the Law and Justice Club is also absent. Mrs Aldona Młyńczak, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u515	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, Fellow Members and Members! Minister: broken wheels, lost goods, cracked old concrete slabs, asphalt patches, constantly jumping cars. Where are these attractions on which way? Well, it's national road number 18, in the future... [[So Poland in ruins, we told you.]] ...hope A18... [[A whole year, a whole year.]] ...which runs from the border crossing in Olszyn towards Wrocław. Dear Minister, the northern thread was built in 2009 and 2011. Right now, we're waiting for the south side. It is really important that this section is built in the near future so that it is not postponed indefinitely. The project is completed, just secure the means. For various reasons, this task could not be done in the previous time. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Well, my dear Minister, this road went over 7.5 thousand in 2010. vehicles, probably even more now. It is the shortest section connecting Wrocław with Germany, especially if people go to Berlin. So please answer in writing if there are secured measures to repair the southern lane of A18.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u516	Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club, another speech. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u517	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Because I am from Małopolska, and we are all talking about these local roads in our constituency, I have a question about the roads in Krakow. So the S7 road to the border with Świętokrzyskie voivodship - from that side these works run very smoothly and you can see that something is happening there, while from Krakow towards Warsaw nothing really happens except a piece of the Krakow ring road. The second road, which has already been mentioned here, means the road which connects Krakow, and basically a burial with Bielsk, i.e. the Beskidska Integration Road. And the third road I know is the most advanced, there are only problems with the course of this road through Wadowice. And a very important way, a courtesan, which is the one [[♪ The bell ♪]] It connects Brest to New Snot. I would very much ask for information on the state of progress of this work in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u518	Thank you very much. Mrs Maria Zuba, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u519	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, on 4 September the National Roads and Motorways Programme for 2014-2023 (with a view to 2025) was adopted, and on 8 September, as I recall, a resolution of the Council of Ministers was adopted on the adoption of this programme. Therefore, I have a question: If it was a programme for the years 2014 to 20203, and it was adopted in September 2015, what was its implementation in 2014 and almost the whole year 2015? Are there any tasks in this programme that have documentation to carry out, and are the resources provided in this programme? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I have a question about Świętokrzyskie voivodship: When will it be prepared and at what stage is the implementation of section 8 km of road No 7 from Skarżyska-Kamienna to the southern borders of the Mazowieckie voivodship? What is with the bridge on the Vistula in Sandomierz, the second renovation of this bridge, and with the implementation of the road in Sandomierz Lwowska bis? Please respond in writing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u520	Mr Czesław Mroczek, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u521	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The total length of motorways planned to be built in Poland is over 1800 km, of which more than 1500 have already been built. The ambition of the Polish government, the most urgent issue in the field of road construction should be the completion of this network of motorways, all the more so, as I say, that it is actually within our reach in a moment. The Minister spoke of the construction of the A1 motorway. You didn't mention the A2 motorway. On this highway is not built mostly the eastern section, east of Warsaw. There are still 150 km to be built there. The Platform and PSL government built and put into service in 2012 more than 20 km of the motorway. In October last year we announced a tender for the section from Warsaw to this 20-kilometer section. In this way, if we had built this section, we would already have 40 km east of Warsaw. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What are the plans for this episode? I'd like a detailed schedule. The tender conducted over a year is very surprising. If you do this road construction, you will actually have CBA analysis of files instead of building roads, you will control them. And now there's a note about the cost. For many years, you've been talking about how we've been building the most expensive roads.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u522	Mr President, we have an appointment for a minute, you have already said 1.5.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u523	With a brief extension, Marshal, I'm almost done.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u524	With an extension, it'll be two minutes. It was your colleagues who wanted a minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u525	In the same statement you say that the most expensive roads and at the same time that companies fell. [[Exactly. That's the precedent.]] Decide on something, and I'm also curious about the costs of your first tenders. Marshal, thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u526	Mrs Monika Rosa, please, another speech, the Modern Club. [[Where's the money?]] [[Yeah, you're gonna be analyzing files now, not building roads.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u527	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask the Minister for a written reply on the stages of implementation and the timetable of several routes. Firstly, it is about the A1 motorway between Piotrków Trybunalski and Pyrzowice and including the Częstochowa ring road. Secondly, S1 on the section from Bielsko-Biała to Mysłowice-Kostowy and the bypass of Hungary Górka. And I'm asking for an answer about the S52 road, the Beskidway of Integration. It is about deadlines, implementation stages and a timetable for action. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u528	You're welcome. May I? You can fit in a minute or even a shorter time. Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Club of Law and Justice. You're welcome. [[You can't see. Oh, there's the Member.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u529	Minister, what is the real deadline for completing the S17 road connecting Lublin and Warsaw? Several bypasses were made there, but there are still narrow throats, which are particularly difficult to move on weekends. The people of Lublin are very much looking forward to this. When can we expect to complete these missing fragments and connect them to the road of speed? The inhabitants of Lublin region also have high hopes for the construction of Via Carpatia, which, as you know, neglected the previous government, giving the road priority to the western part of Poland, favoring the development of German ports, as well as the connections west-east. We are very pleased that the current government has restored the rank of this merger. What are the prospects here? When can you expect to build this road in the Lublin region? Is this going to overlap with the S19, or not necessarily? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And one quick question. The matter of waste related to the construction of screens among the fields, meadows for which the predecessors generously spent their money. How is the current government going to solve this problem? Do you have a plan? Will they be demolished where they are not needed? [[And it was Minister Szyszko with the Minister of Health who issued such a regulation.]] The point is not to fire a baby with a bath, because there are places where these screens are supposed to be, and they're not. Do you have a plan for this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u530	Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, another speech, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u531	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The common denominator of many statements is the question: When? And I also - regarding the Opole Voivodeship - ask: When will you build? How about an ancillary question: when do we find out when? This nervousness has been going on for a year and it was time to decide and say masculinely: in Opole we will build this or that ring road. [[Eight years!]] I would like to say that a lot has happened in the Opole region. If you were in charge before, Nysa's ring road wouldn't be built. I would like to say that this first priority, i.e. the completion of the strings, is very important from the point of view of Route 46. After the construction of the Nysa ring road, which is under construction, and already existing: Paczkowa, Otmuchowa the whole movement will collapse in Niemodlin and block this city. Minister, when are we going to find out when this ring road is going to be built? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u532	Thank you very much. Mr Adam Szłapka, the Modern Club, asked for a written reply, Minister. Mr Marek Matuszewski, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u533	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The S14 road, which is the western ring road of Łódź, Aleksandrów, Zgierza, will be built. This is a great success of the law and justice government, including you. [[Oh!]] We know very well that the Civic Platform, that Members from that area already thought that this road would not be built, but the Government of Law and Justice kept its word and the necessary road for the development of the Łódź region will be built. [[The Łódź region is a very important region.]] And, Minister, a brief question: Will the extension of the junction of Aleksandrów Łódź complex be planned during the construction of the S14 in order to connect with the Fibers Avenue in Łódź? And last but not least, a very important question. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The inhabitants of the Kutnowski County, Łęczycki County in Łódź Voivodeship ask me about the national road no. 60 Topola Królewska - Kutno. Will this road also be built, renovated in some perspective? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u534	Mrs Ewa Kołodziej, Club Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u535	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The section of the express road S1 from Mysłowice to Bielska-Biała, designed for many years, should be connected immediately with the express route from Cieszyn to Bielska-Biała and from Mysłowice to Dąbrowa Górnicza, should also be connected with the airport in Pyrzowice. For many years, we had a problem with choosing the right option because there were many social protests. Finally, option E was chosen, so-called. the hybrid option, which is recognised by all as a compromise option. It strengthens mining environments, takes into account the technical capabilities of road construction, respects the sites of the former concentration camp and Natura 2000 sites. The inhabitants of the Silesian agglomeration expect the construction of the road S1 because the national road No 1 running by Tychy, Pszczyna, Goczałkowice and Czechowice-Dziedzice is probably the most used road in Poland. There are numerous analyses, numerous documents showing that the section of the road S1 between Tychy and Bielsko-Biała is the most exploited [[♪ The bell ♪]] And a heavy section, the most exploited road. Therefore, I have a question on my behalf, but also a colleague from Bielska-Biała Mirosława Nykiel. We have very disturbing signals, information that there is a risk that in the case of financing the S1 expressway there may not be any budget resources and it may fall out of the government's National Roads and Motorways programme. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister from this place, I would like to hear a specific answer as to whether the S1 road will never fall out of the government programme. This is the most burdened road in Poland. She's defending herself with this fact, so I believe I'll hear a specific answer from this place. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u536	I see that Mr Piotr Kaleta is absent. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek made her written statement. Mr Waldemar Andzel. [[There it is.]] Mr Waldemar Andrzel, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u537	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! One of the most important investments carried out on the territory of the Krakow-Częstochowa Jury is the construction of the Poręba and Zawiercie bypass on the national road No 78 connecting the border crossing in Chałupki in the south of the country with Kielce in Świętokrzyskie Voivodeship. Currently, all motor traffic between Silesia and Świętokrzyskie voivodship takes place through the strict centre of Zawiercie, i.e. ul. Paderewski. Such a large number of cars passing through the center of Zawiercie every day is burdensome for the inhabitants of the city. Traffic jams are forming, there are much more traffic collisions, noise and air pollution I do not mention. Therefore, I ask the Minister to answer the following question: Will the Ministry secure all the funds for the construction of the Poręba and Zawiercie ring road? When the General Directorate for Roads and Motorways will be able to proceed with the announcement of the tender and the preparation of the project phase in the case of the above mentioned. routes? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u538	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Anna Nemś is absent. Mr Tomasz Ławniczak, Law and Justice. You're an MP. Here you go, another statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u539	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I'd like to ask you about two ways, namely the S11, it's already raining here. At this moment on the S11 are built four bypasses, namely: Jarocin, Ostrów Wielkopolski, Kępno and in the north Szczecin. During the tender there are probably Tarnowskie Góry, while they are prepared according to the plans of the previous government since 2019 bypasses Olesna, then Obornik Wielkopolski and Ujście. I wanted to ask you about the implementation of the sections between these bypasses. I would like to recommend here to take into account in the decision-making process the most heavy part between the bypasses, the section between Kórnik and Jarocin, and actually Kórnik and Pleszew, where in five, six measuring points the average is between 13 200 and more than 18 thousand. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There is simply a string with a very large usage of this road. The second point is Annex 3 to the Ewa Kopacz Government Regulation, namely the modernisation of four national roads, among others. Ostrów Wielkopolski - Kalisz - Konin. These are in fact three episodes: Ostrów Wielkopolski - Kalisz, Kalisz - Konin, and in the middle Kalisz, just passing through Kalisz. Here we have the latest measurements from Kalisz, which Kalisz made, which is about over 20,000, where there are road lines. This must be taken first into account in the decision-making process, taking this path into account. I'm sorry. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u540	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Elżbieta Radziszewska, the Civic Platform Club, will make another statement. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u541	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I am very pleased that the investment called the Bełchatów ring road will be completed earlier. This means that despite many complex engineering facilities on quite short stretch the project was well prepared, the investor well chosen, that we will have the Bełchatów ring road available in a faster time. I am very pleased that you have maintained your decision to invest in A1 from Tuszyn to Częstochowa. That's a good thing, but I have a question for you, because the alternative to this section A1 is the national road number 91. In October, the Regional Environment Director in Łódź issued a decision refusing to define environmental conditions for the implementation of the southern Radom ring road. There's an appeal from the city authorities, but I'd like to hear the answer to what's gonna happen next with this investment, national road number 91. And one more thing, also local, [[♪ The bell ♪]] relating to the S12 road. The General Director of Environmental Protection repealed the decision of the local WDOŚ in Łódź on environmental conditions for the project consisting in the construction of the S12 road on the section from Piotrków to Kielce, sorry, to Opoczno, and then the road goes to Radom. This is also the part concerning the road S74 in the vicinity of Sulejów. I would like to ask: What is the future of the implementation of the S12 road on this central section and the S74 road? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u542	Thank you very much. Mrs Barbara Dziuk, Club Law and Justice. Here you go, another statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u543	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! A very important topic on which we discuss: roads in Poland. Unfortunately, for 8 years, the Platform with PSL had some things only in its vision, just like the S1 road, where there is no more concrete implementation of the whole procedure. And here's the question, sir, to ask the Minister to respond. Second question. In fact, my previous speaker, a Member from Law and Justice, Tomasz, spoke about a ring road for the Tarnowskie Mountains, which I have also requested for years, and only now the Government of Law and Justice, I think, will implement it, for which I thank you very much on behalf of the inhabitants. And my third question concerns the situation of the transport department, what it looked like at the moment when the Minister covered it, with a particular [[♪ The bell ♪]] taking into account sub-contractors of highways, because we know that there are processes going on. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u544	Thank you very much. Mrs Elżbieta Radziszewska from the Civic Platform Club asks for a written reply. Mrs Mirosławy Nykiel from the Civic Platform club is not here. In that case, Mr Krzysztof Głuchowski, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u545	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I live in the Lublin region. National roads, some sections of voivodship roads in our district are in very poor technical condition. As an example, I will point out two sections of national roads: the National Road No. 76 Stoczek Łukowski - Łuków and the National Road No. 63 Łuków - Biardy. I must also say that cooperation between the road manager and the inhabitants of the localities on these roads is not ideal in terms of using these roads, so obtaining the conditions and consent to build and maintain exits to the property, on the construction of pedestrian walkways or on the location and construction of bike paths. Of course, this is due to the existing rules, but not only. Similarly, local authorities assess this cooperation as to the destination and development of land for housing and housing, ensuring the right conditions - in a short period of time and without exposing the inhabitants to unnecessary costs - for access to land for construction. Minister! We're in Parliament to change the law. [[♪ The bell ♪]] in such a way as not to make it difficult for society. Farmers, entrepreneurs and other residents are complaining about the situation. There is a lack of understanding for their affairs. I keep hearing complaints from the residents that someone had been killed without notice to get to the plot, not allowed to build a exit, not placed in the right place a vertical mark limiting the speed in the built-up area, etc., etc. Can you change that, Minister? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u546	Thank you very much. Mrs Bożena Kamińska, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u547	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Regulation of the Council of Ministers of 19 May 2016 complements the network of motorways and national roads by a section of the S61 express road, which will ultimately constitute a link between Via Carpatia and Via Baltica routes. The construction of the subjective section of the S16 express road will mean missing the essential needs of the Suwałski subregion, which has been struggling with numerous communication problems for many years. I have a question to the Minister: What was the result of the change and the chosen option of the connection Via Baltica and Via Carpatia by the planned section of the expressway S16 Ełk will be connected with Knyszyn S19 and not, as in the original version, with the link between the Augustów ring road in the town of Raczki? [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is not in line with the current programme and is also not justified, because Via Carpatia, section S19 is not yet fully prepared to implement the investment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u548	Thank you very much. Mrs Ewa Szymańska, club Law and Justice, another statement. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u549	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have questions about the construction of the S3 express road in the Lower Silesian Voivodeship on the last section from the node in Bolkow to the border of Poland with the Czech Republic in Lubawka. Will the work on this section continue when it is completed and how will it be financed? I ask this in the context of occasionally appearing in local Internet media and in the statements of some politicians of the Civic Platform about the lack of money and related problems in completing the construction of this road. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u550	Thank you very much. Mr Arkadiusz Carrotka, Civic Platform Club. Another statement, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u551	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask for detailed information on the implementation of road infrastructure activities in the Zachodniopomorskie voivodship. Namely, I wanted to ask you a few questions. Firstly, just a few weeks ago, the Minister signed a decision in the light of the flash to transfer funds to launch the second stage of the tender for the construction of the S3 in the northern part, but as we have learned from the representatives of the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways, there is no geodetic documentation yet, which makes it impossible for this second stage to begin. Hence my first question: When will this stage begin? And secondly, how are the next and subsequent investments for which financial resources have been provided and tenders have already been launched? I mean, the bypass of Warzymic and Transcława on the national road no. 13, [[♪ The bell ♪]] road S3 - A6, knot Kiev, knot Rzęśnica, and of course construction of S3 Miękowo from the ring road Brzozow on the section Miękowo - Rzęśnica. Please provide detailed information in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u552	In writing, I understand, yes, or...? [[Yes, in writing.]] In writing. Then we have Anna Krupka, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u553	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you about the preparation and progress of the investment in the construction of the expressway on the national road S74 Low - Opatów - Kielce - Sulejów and what has been done in this case for 8 years by the government of the PO-PSL coalition. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u554	Mrs Joanna Borowiak, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome. Thanks to your request, you have also received your speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u555	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! The need for road construction in Poland is enormous. At the end of the PO-PSL governments, many roads were removed from the road construction programme and highways. Such fate happened, among others. Bypass Brest Kujawski in Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship. The opportunity to make a much-needed investment would be the financial partnership of the State Treasury with local governments. I have a question for the Minister whether the Ministry is considering this possibility of road investments. If so, are legislative work planned to enable such a solution, very expected not only in the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship, but I am convinced that in many regions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u556	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Gosievski, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u557	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, The national road S16 during the PO-PSL government is like a disappearing ghost. When Prime Minister Kopacz came to us... [[It is now that you will build a Member.]] ...it was the S16 road in the road and highway program, when she left, that road was deleted. Luckily, illusory governments disappeared, and the S16 road remained. [[So she was. So she was.]] Minister, when will the S16 road be built, mostly on the episode from Mrągow to Borek Wielki? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Give it up, give it up.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u558	Thank you. Mrs Elisabeth Stępień, the Modern Club. You're welcome. Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u559	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I'd like to ask you in person. Namely, it is the number 94 road on the Prochovice - Legnica section. This case is very important to me because people are systematically dying on this road every year. Children ride along this road because of the water reservoir that is on this road. I was in the General Directorate of the Roads to find out what was going on with the renovation of the road. As councilwoman of Kunice commune, I heard that the road will be renovated after 2014, because Minister Bieńkowska gave us this assurance. We, as naive voters of the Civic Platform, believed that this renovation would be possible. It's 2016, this road is not being renovated. People die every year. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would like to ask: When will this road finally be renovated because it is on the list of dangerous roads? One more question, regarding the construction of the S3 road on the section of Bolków - Lubabek. I am referring to the denial of this information, which concerns the lack of resources, and to ensuring the priority of this task. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u560	Thank you very much. Last question - Mr Jakub Rutnicki, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u561	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As a Member from Wielkopolska, I wanted to ask the Minister about a very important road S11, in this northern part of the western ring road of the city of Poznań, but later, especially in the aspect that is so necessary from the point of view not only of the residents of Obornik bypass Obornik, just within the S11. At the moment this movement is actually passing through the city, only one bridge is crossing, so in the event of damage to it, and already there is information that this bridge may be damaged soon, in fact the 11th ride will be in jeopardy. The entire northern Wielkopolska and the town of Oborniki are waiting for this bypass. Minister, is there a chance in the near future, because this investment is, of course, included on the basic list for the realization of such a necessary road? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u562	Thank you very much. That's how we ended the questions. They all fit in. Mr President, if you would kindly wait, two minutes' break. [[Of course, Marshal.]] Ladies and gentlemen, take two minutes. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 19 mins 33 hrs. 19 min 36]] I'm reopening the session. We're continuing to consider point 28. I invite you to address Mr Mirosław Suchon as the representative of the applicants. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u563	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The discussion was very rich. Indeed, as far as roads are concerned, this is a subject that ignites the imagination of both parliamentarians and our voters. I don't think that's weird. I firmly believe that the Members who came here and talked about local problems, about local roads, did not only cause relations with voters. I firmly believe that it was a real concern for these roads to arise. As I said at the beginning, in fact, the idea is that these roads will increase the attractiveness of the region, that people can move freely, move freely, as if the regions are drawn from this exclusion, which happens when these roads are not there. Minister, thank you for those words that the Minister was kind to say here, answering the first part of the question. However, I have some doubts or dissatisfiedness. This applies to the area that seems to be the most important. There's a lot of roads in the road construction program, I guess all the roads that could have been put into this program, the previous government put in. That's good, because it's such an extensive program that we know what the perspective is. But the Minister was kind to focus on more political issues, and I would ask that the Minister be kind to say a little bit about the perspective. Where's the funding coming from? Are there any ideas about the funds? I think that just as we are sitting here with all the clubs, and that's good, we all want these roads to come up, but I think this is our common task to find financing for this perspective. If the Minister had been kind enough to say a little more about these funding opportunities, I would be grateful. The same applies to changes, possibly changes in road construction technology. Some Members have mentioned these on-screen farms. This is an absolute scandal, although I remind you that this regulation is, however, the work of the previous coalition state, so that it is always necessary to look carefully at it, because I think it was Minister Szyszko who put his hand to it, if I remember correctly - not alone, not alone. But, Minister, I think we need to do something about this, and I would very much ask you to say two more sentences about it. I am also unsatisfied with the references, because the Minister mentioned global quotas, the global quantities of tasks that are being carried out. I was a little short of that reference to the tasks to be carried out this year, because then we would have known it, but I understand that perhaps this should be the subject of the committee's deliberations, so I would ask the Minister not to bring it up. For this I would ask very much that you try to refer at least to those key roads that we, as applicants for today's information, have asked, as well as individual Members, because the Modern Posel Club assumes that the more roads that reach the furthest corners of our country, the more each region will be incorporated into this great mass from which our country can grow economically. So that we want this program to be implemented and implemented effectively. So last but not least, Minister, I just want to remind you of the roads I was talking about: e.g. S52, i.e. Beskidzka Droga Integracyjna, S1 from Bielsko-Biała to Mysłowiec with the passing of Hungary Górka, we also mentioned the motorway A2 to Terespola, S3, about the road S5, S6, S7, S10, S11, S12, S14, about the road of Eastern Poland - Via Carpatia, or S19, S74 - important for Świętokrzyskie, DK8 Wrocław - Kłodzko - it did not appear, but they reported to me that this road was important. Brest - Nowy Sącz - also important road, there is only renovation, and it should be, it seems, at all, a change of this concept. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The northern perimeter of Szczecin, Niemodlin, Kędzierzyn-Koźl or finally the tunnel to Świnoujście and one more way I would like to ask the Minister to be kind to mention S61 along with the ring road of Łomża, because this is an important element. Finally, I would like to thank you all very much for participating in this debate, for the substantive debate, because it seems to me that it was more substantive than political. It also seems that we need more of these debates, and I think we will return to the subject at the meetings of the Committee on Infrastructure. Minister, if I could ask for these two specific things, to refer to these roads at the end, I would be very grateful. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u564	I thank the applicant's representative for his statement. [[Thank you, Marshal.]] In fact, these questions and your speech were very substantive. Now I will ask the Minister, but, Minister, 10 minutes, because most of the people who made the statements have asked for written answers, so in this situation we may consider that 10 minutes should be enough to answer the other people. Thank you very much. You're welcome. [[What's in the courtroom, Minister.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u565	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Members and honourable Members, I will actually be able to fit in 10 minutes, and therefore I am getting to the point. High Izbo...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u566	Minister, may the attention of your Members of the Law and Justice right here: to those Members who are in the Chamber, please simply answer and to the other persons in writing. [[Applause]] Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Jerzy Szmit: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your enormous turnout in this debate, because this is indeed proof of your interest in road construction in Poland and I fully share the views of the Member of the applicant's representative. I do not consider your speeches as a possible request for this or any other way, but actually as a concern for the road system in Poland, because this system consists of specific sections of roads which are either functional or for use, either safe or not. But I would really like to start with a few very general sentences. The question is, perhaps one of the most important things that's going to happen this year. Ladies and gentlemen, I said at the beginning of my speech: 25 contracts have been signed, most of them are unfortunately in the format of design and build, and this is perhaps not as much a problem as the fact. If we wanted to go into format with those contracts today... In fact, it was not possible to enter into the format of build, because the predecessors arranged all of this so that tenders had been tendered for whether the documentation had been prepared and unfortunately it was the only way to start these investments at all. 25 contracts for the amount, as I recall, more than PLN 11.4 billion. This year we will still sign the next contracts and decide whether to distribute the second stage of tenders or to start individual investments at all. Such decisions are still ahead of us, also some of those you have asked about - I am talking about the most important ones. Now maybe I'll move on to... I mean, some information about the future time. It should be recalled that as regards the time of the tenders, I will only submit two tenders in the previous term of the Sejm: for S2 Puławska - Lubelska - this tender lasted 2 years, whether the tender for S3 Sulechów-Zielona Góra - this tender also lasted 2 years. So if some of the invitations to tender lasts a year or a little longer today, it is not unusual. I also wanted to say about such a case that the change of power in Poland in 2012 when... I'm sorry, there were 10 canceled invitations to tender during the first governments of the Civic Platform. We haven't cancelled any tenders, so I guess that's... It's just the facts. Ladies and gentlemen, why don't I move on to the key questions about particular roads. Dear S6. Ladies and gentlemen, the costs of the S6 road from Koszalin to Gdańsk estimated by the general management are at PLN 5.7 billion. This is one of the most expensive - I stress - road investments in Poland if you want to implement it. It's nearly twice as high as the A1 motorway. We can compare the weight, for example, given the traffic burden, for the communication coherence of Poland. These are disproportionate indicators at all, ladies and gentlemen. Such data, such information and such facts must simply be taken into account when making decisions. Here, however, I must once again tell you about the dilemma that our predecessors left us, namely 107 and 200. In these 90 there are specific investments that are on the list that are estimated and for which there is simply no money. Today we have to make decisions that we will be making today, which - tomorrow - the day after tomorrow and which - will be the day after tomorrow. I speak the common language, of course, not the planning language, because it works for years, not for individual days. These are, ladies and gentlemen, the main dilemmas. Maybe road S3. Here many questions were asked about the road S3 on the section of Bolków - Lubabek. Ladies and gentlemen, the decision has been made. This has been addressed to the realization. So that's it, period. The decision has been made. We're working to get the tenders out as soon as possible, so it'll just go off. And let me remind you that this is the decision that we make as the first, most important decision. It's about putting it into practice. This is not a second stage referral, a tender that has already been placed and some work has already been done before, but these are the concrete decisions that our government is making. Road S61, or Via Baltica: Ostrów Mazowiecka - Szchuczyn, further to the border with Lithuania - Budzisko. Similarly, the decision was taken. Some are financed from CEF - i.e. from European money - to Knyszyn, that is about 40% This tour. The others will be funded by the KFD. So going back to S3, we have different variants here. We reported it, too, because there's gonna be another CEF fund competition in February. We report this to the European Commission and hope that we will receive funding. However, if we do not get them, we will be determined, given the importance of this road and its importance for Poland - not only I am talking about Lower Silesia, but about Poland at all - to simply implement it from national means or to support it with other European means. But the decision on this road was made. Maybe I'll move to the northeast of Poland - the Podlasie cases. There were a lot of questions about Podlasie here, too. Ladies and gentlemen, this is it. Indeed, there is, I do not hide, a difficult problem, because individual environments, individual cities, individual towns, subregions would like to be connected to express roads, to two-band communication arteries. There is a problem not only financially, but also environmentally. Certain solutions simply cannot be achieved without being exposed to environmental problems. As they can be burdensome, you can see, for example, after the construction of S7, Skarżysko-Kamienna, where the construction of one node really stopped. Environmentally, the case is still unsolved. We're working to get it to stop interfering with the construction process, to complete the S7 process, but unfortunately the interruption was very clear. Apart from environmental problems, there are still various social issues - as regards Podlasie - as well as the fact that we want Via Carpatia to have an optimal course and to be accepted as a communication artery not only for Podlasie, but also for the whole of Poland and in the perspective of what we are talking about in the topic of Via Carpatia, to be accepted by all travelling across the eastern border, at the eastern border of the European Union. Maybe the northwest, this is the case of Szczecin and the wormhole in Świnoujście. We are talking to the authorities of Szczecin, which even declare a very far-reaching possibility of co-financing the construction of the western ring road Szczecin. We also passed seven road projects to the Ministry of Development, where we see the possibility of commercial or paracommercial co-financing. We want to talk about it. I hope that there is also among these proposals the construction of the A2 motorway that was asked about here. But the A2 motorway will certainly run to Siedlec, and after analysis it may turn out that to the intersection with S19 - i.e. Via Carpatia - we still want to implement it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm not talking about decisions, I'm talking about the fact that we take this very seriously. [[Minister Modlin.]] Ladies and gentlemen, all other questions will, of course, be answered in writing. I just want to... [[And the bypasses?]] As far as the ring road is concerned, I'm going to say very general. Ladies and gentlemen, there are 54 bypasses in the program. This is indeed a very important part of the programme when it comes to the financial side. We have a really serious dilemma today, and I am not hiding, namely, whether to create communication lines or to build bypasses within the money we have at our disposal. This dilemma is not yet fully resolved. Where the decisions have already been made, please pay attention, we also have the direction of the meridian. The main communication arteries, the completion of communication lines, the elimination of bottlenecks - these decisions we make. But besides the national road construction programme, we undertake investments that are directly financed by the state budget. The question was asked by Mr Marek Matuszewski about the ways of Topola Królewska - Kutno. Here these decisions are ripening as far as this road is concerned, and I hope that soon we will be able to say that the decision to build this road, and in fact to complete its modernisation, has already been made. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[S1!]] Yes, indeed, S1, an important artery. Here I will say the same thing, indeed we realize that this is also an extremely important communication artery linking Bielsko-Biała with the border and then also with the Silesian agglomeration. We take this decision very seriously to make this decision despite the really huge value of this road because it is a urbanized area, and it is difficult to build a road, so technically, engineeringly. But it is also absolutely in the area of approaching positive decisions. [[Speech outside the microphone]] Please? [[Speech outside the microphone]] Ladies and gentlemen... Ladies and gentlemen, the time to ask questions has already been, therefore... [[Voice from the room: But there was a question.]] Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Jerzy Szmit: There was a question. I'm trying to answer those questions I can. I've written down five pages of questions. Ladies and gentlemen, as I promised, each of these questions will be answered in writing. [[There was a question. An hour to answer, Marshal.]] In line with the rapporteur's suggestion - I say so - I declare that if it is, for example. sitting of the Sejm committee, we can also transfer this to the committee meeting. I will already, having these questions, be able to answer better, more fully, but if it is my will to return to the questions and to the debate on road construction, say, in six months' time, I am at your disposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Minister. And this statement concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u567	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In view of the European Commission's negative decisions to finance the construction of the bypassing of Hungary Górka on the S1 expressway (formerly S69) from the Connecting Europe Facility, I would like to ask the Minister for detailed information on the planned construction of this section. The answer to my interpellation in August was not specific. It stated in general that the government would continue to look for ways to finance it. I would like to mention that in six months - in May 2017 - Slovaks will make available the section of the D3 Skalité - Svrčinovec motorway from Zwardonia into the country. Transit through the south of Poland towards Slovakia will increase repeatedly. Passenger cars and trucks with increased intensity will cross a few kilometers narrow throat - a section of the national road from the Advent to Milówka - between the houses, along the sidewalks where children go to school, through the tourist centers of the village. The situation is extremely tense. Mountains from the Hungarian Górka and Milówka municipalities are already preparing roadblocks, they want to charge tolls through their villages. I would like detailed and concrete information on the construction of the roundabout of the Hungarian Mountains. As I was informed in the above-mentioned interpellation, the possibility of applying for funding to complete the construction of the S1 is being considered on the indicated section under the Operational Programme of the Infrastructure and Environment. I strongly demand that this investment really be given priority, because I will remind you that the previous government of the PiS has removed it from the national road construction programme. What expenditures will be incurred in 2017 for this purpose and what activities will be carried out? Please respond in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u568	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! On 7 November this year, an agreement was signed in Rzeszów on the construction of Via Carpatia by representatives of three voivodships: Podlaskie, Mazowieckie and Lublin. The ceremony was attended by Prime Minister Beata Szydło and Andrzej Adamczyk, Minister of Infrastructure and Construction. This ceremony was a continuation of the so-called. The chain declaration signed in October 2006 by the Ministers of Transport of Poland, Lithuania, Slovakia and Hungary. The S19 expressway is part of this route. Currently there is a section of this road from Świlczy to Babica. In the longer term, it is planned to build the S19 road from Babica to the state border in Barwinek. Hence my question to the Minister: What year is it planned to complete this important section of the S19 road in Podkarpackie Voivodeship? What is the estimated cost of the S19 road from Babica to Barwinka?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u569	On this we exhausted the agenda of the 30th session of the Polish Sejm. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to sign up? I'm closing the list. [[Me too.]] In writing? [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] Sit down, Member, there's a line. Slowly, please sign up. We conclude with the Member. I'm closing the list of MPs. Mr Jarosław Gonciusz wrote. Mr Jack Kurzepa I can't see. Mr Sylvester Khrushch - in writing. Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska - in writing. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u570	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! If Karolínka had gone to Gogolin these days, she would have been stuck on the E30 train ride, and certainly would have been stuck following her Karlik. For such reasons, ladies and gentlemen, on the E30 route, which will be modernised, at the moment more than 100 trains a day. This means that the rail trip in Gogolin is closed for about eight hours a day. Imagine the functioning of the city, where on the main artery along the voivodeship road 409 the railway crossing is closed four times an hour and together it takes so long. It's hard to imagine the city's functioning, it's hard to imagine how this city and this area would grow. Of course, the hypothetical situation of Karlik and Karolina's appearance once again is impossible, but let's imagine that it is possible, of course, in Gogolin, armagedon, and this is communication armagedon. Because of this, it happens very often that the A4 motorway is no longer mobile, mainly due to the icing on the Mount of St.Anna, and then the whole movement begins to focus on the road No. 409. I am talking about the fact that over a dozen months, efforts have been made to lead to a decision, to decide to remove this Gordian knot blocking the development of Gogolin. I am pleased to say that the meeting took place thanks to the determination of Mayor Wojtali, who seems to be close to reaching consensus between the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Marshal of the voivodship on the construction of the viaduct there as well as the underground passage. Of course, it can be noted that this is a positive fact that it is a connecting centre, which is to take place in Gogolina, it will make sense, because it will also serve the municipality of Krapkowice and a total of 25 thousand. People. I am talking here about the fact that this is a publicly known fact, also noted in this House, that we, as Members of the Opole region, myself, as well as the Opole Parliamentary Team, will be on this matter and we will strive to ensure that these words that have been made at the meeting, those declarations of the Ministry of Infrastructure that took place at the meeting, that the task under the name: the construction of the viaduct in Gogolin becomes real... So that it doesn't disperse the bones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u571	Thank you very much, Mr Kostusi from the Civic Platform, in particular, for his written statement, because I have been holding this meeting for four hours. Mrs Ewa Szymańska, club Law and Justice, last in the statements. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u572	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! 2016 is a special year. A year of important anniversaries and events - the anniversary of the 1050th anniversary of the baptism of Poland, the Extraordinary Jubilee of Divine Mercy, the World Youth Days to visit Pope Francis in Poland. Thank God for such important events. Therefore, on 20 and 23 October this year. there was a national thanksgiving pilgrimage, which was the national thanksgiving of Poles. About 7,000 arrived in Rome within 4 days. faithful, about 260 priests and 50 bishops. On Saturday 22 October, representatives of the Polish government, president and parliament also went to Rome. Early in the morning, or actually at 3:30 a.m., we left Warsaw. In Rome, a plane landed at Fiumicino airport around 7:00 a.m. We got to St. Paul's Square by bus. Peter, where at 3 p.m. 10 A special audience with the Holy Father Francis began. After the joint prayer the Holy Father greeted and greeted pilgrims from various places in Poland and pilgrims of Poles living in different parts of the world who also had a need for thanksgiving and came to Rome. At the end of the meeting, representatives of the Polish government, president and parliament could approach Pope Francis and meet him personally. After the audience was finished on the way to the Basilica of St. Paul behind the Walls had the opportunity to admire the monuments of the Eternal City from the windows of the buses that carried us. And the weather, as in Rome, was beautiful, sunny and temperature 22 degrees - and only 7 degrees and rain in Warsaw. About an hour. 15.45 in the Polish pilgrimage of the Basilica of St. Paul's Mass, led by Archbishop, began behind the Walls. Stanisław Gądecki. The homily was consecrated to our fellow countryman St. John Paul II, the Polish Pope. After the ceremony, we recorded our stay in Rome together with a photograph. We returned to Warsaw late in the evening. The pilgrimage was one-day, and that made it tiring. But it is the tiredness and together thanksgiving prayer that seem pleasing to God. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u573	Thank you very much, Member. This was the last of the Members' statements today.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u574	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 25 November this year. for 70. the anniversary of the last great underground action, i.e. The reflections of the unbreakable soldiers from the Pultusk prison. I would like to take this opportunity to say a few words about the circumstances of this event. In the autumn of 1946, the arrests of the Public Security Office affected the Resistance of the National Army from the area of the Pułtuski district and the vicinity of Wyszkow. As a result, the decision was made to release the prisoners by force - by breaking up the prison in Pułtusk, to which they were transported. About 40 men were involved in the action, which consisted of patrols: pr. Stanisława. Translucent of Lanecki - from the district of Ostrów Mazowiecka - Stanisława.Visa. Suminskiego, the distribution group of WiN Łochów Jana The operation was performed incredibly smoothly. In the afternoon of November 25, 1946, WiN soldiers dressed in uniforms of the People's Polish Army entered Pułtusk from the western side and stopped on the market. After dark they left the cars and stations equipped with machine guns and blocked the headquarters of the Public Security Office and the Civic Militia and two bridges on the channel. At the same time, a second group of WiN soldiers entered the city. About an hour. One of the patrols took over the mail and crashed the switchboard. That's why communications have been cut off. Later, some soldiers entered the building where the prison workers lived and disarmed Jan Dwornik - the prison manager. The manor brought the guerrillas into prison and helped free the prisoners from their cells. During the action, the crew was disarmed and all political prisoners were released. Some sources say that 48 people were released, others that there were up to 70. In prison three death sentences were executed on guards who were extremely cruel to prisoners. In total, seven bellies and two ormites were killed, and several officers were wounded. At the same time, the guerrillas captured large amounts of weapons, among others. PPSz grenades and machine guns, commonly referred to as pepesh. While the prisoners left their cells, guerrilla insurance blocked all attempts to get into prison with the fire of machine guns. When there was a disturbance at the bridges on the canal and the security forces went through them, Lieutenant. Stanisław Lanecki ordered the retreat. The branch confused the operational groups of KBW and went towards the Ostrów district. The group managed to leave town. The resort was so surprised by these actions that it did not organize an effective chase. Unfortunately, during his escape, he was sent to two security officers. And even though he managed to shoot both of them, he was wounded to death. The capture of the prisoners was of great propagandism. She made a great impression on the population. Despite the fatal wound, it should be regarded as a successful wound. The WiN Guerrilla Branch of the Ostrów Mazowiecka Region ceased its operations in April 1947, revealing itself during the so-called. Amnesty. However, several of his soldiers decided to continue the fight and moved on to another unit. Hello and praise the heroes! Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u575	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 11 November, the biggest Polish patriotic manifestation - the March of Independence once again passed through the streets of Warsaw. 100,000 arrived in the capital that day. Mostly young people. They came for their own money, unfunded and uncharted by anyone. They passed in the March of Independence because they are proud to be Poles. And we parliamentarians should be proud to have such a patriotic young generation in our country. This year, the march passed under the slogan "Poland's bastion of Europe." In view of what is happening in Western Europe, the influx of illegal immigrants, the bankruptcy of multi-culti assumptions, the fall of moral principles, laicisation, the Republic appears as a bastion of a real Europe. Interestingly, many foreigners came to Warsaw, who share our conservative values. They want people in their homelands - in Germany, France or Spain - to be as attached to traditional values as Poles. The Independence March is not just a historical march. Of course, we mention regaining our independence in 1918, but the struggle for independence and independence of our nation is also taking place today. It has a different dimension than it used to be, but it is just as important. Today we are struggling with the dictatorship of the European Union and large international corporations. With global media like Facebook, we have to fight for freedom of speech. Unfavorable agreements are imposed on us, such as CETA, which will bind our country in the fight against global companies. It is also worth noting that for the second time in a row the Independence March passed in complete peace. Of course, the organizers have the greatest credit for this. The Independence March Guard is an increasingly professional and specialized formation that aims to carry out the march in peace and ensure the safety of the participants.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u576	Statement on amendments to the Law on cemeteries and the hiding of the dead in connection with the published report of the Supreme Audit Chamber. A recent report by the Supreme Audit Chamber on the management of municipal cemeteries highlights a number of comments that deserve to be amended, particularly in the Law on cemeteries and the burial of the dead of 31 January 1959. On the website of the Supreme Audit Chamber, we can read that controlled local authorities have often ignored the management of municipal cemeteries. Most of them were confined to basic matters, i.e. to providing burial sites and cleanliness control. The remaining tasks were commissioned outside without checking how - and even whether - they were carried out. As a result, against the law, cemeteries managers gained more powers than they should have. They set themselves up, for example. prices for burial sites or at the same time with cemetery municipal services, despite the statutory ban, carried out commercial funeral services. My greatest attention in the published report was drawn to the fact that there is no definition of the concept of cemetery services and, consequently, the catalogue of fees associated with the implementation of these services. The report says that there is often a violation of the law, and that people close to the dead are surprised by the high cemetery fees and the disunity of local authorities' actions. As an example, the total cost of the burial place for a double grave for a period of 20 years in the Wielkopolska Voivodeship in one city amounted to 255 PLN and in the second city - 1980 PLN. In connection with the published report of the Supreme Audit Chamber, I ask the High Chamber to work on amending the Act by centralising the rates in such a way that there is not such a glaring imbalance, and to introduce a special catalogue of cemetery charges. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u577	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 14 October we celebrated the National Education Day, a special celebration in the Polish calendar, as it is the date commemorating the creation of the National Education Committee in 1773. It was an institution of great importance in shaping the education system in Poland, as well as an example for the whole of Europe, so that education has a significant role in the functioning of the state. The Commission was the first Ministry responsible for public education in our country, as well as the first institution of this type in Europe designed to rebuild the education system in the Republic of Poland. It was founded mainly because by 1773, primary and secondary education were organized and controlled in Poland by the Jesuit order, which characterized the contemporary conservativeism and religious intolerance. After many centuries since the creation of the prototype of the Ministry of National Education, we appreciate the huge contribution of this institution in shaping patriotic and social attitudes, i.e. those qualities which proved to be important in the survival of the Polish state in the years to come. Education is not only science, it is primarily the upbringing of a young man and an indication of noble and timeless values that will guide the young generation throughout their lives and which they will guide in making often difficult decisions. At this point, attention should be paid to those who can make sure that our children receive not only adequate knowledge but also important values and patriotic education for many years. It is thanks to you, dear teachers and educators that many young people can discover and develop their predispositions, passions and talents, find motivation to fight weaknesses, and find themselves in today's difficult reality. It is also your dedication and commitment that encourages young people to gain knowledge, ask questions and seek answers to them. I wish you that your daily work is a source of satisfaction and a sense of a well-fulfilled mission, and the attachment and gratitude of your students will reward your hard work. Thank you all for your commitment and enthusiasm in the process of creating the best quality work of educational units, which are becoming more interesting, more friendly and open. May you be accompanied every day by the serenity and passion to pass on knowledge to your students and influence their life choices. In the shadow of recent events and planned reform, I also wish that all things will be successful, and on my part I declare my full support not to destroy what you have been building over the years. I therefore ask Minister Anna Zalewska to withdraw from the changes contained in the draft laws so that she can finally draw attention to the voice of teachers on this issue. In addition, I would like to ask the Minister to lean on the problem of lack of consultation, lack of work and lack of information on how the reform will affect the employment of teachers in Poland. The proposals with which the Ministry of National Education comes are unwise. The idea of eliminating middle school and returning to the old formula are actions that will devastate our education. Unprepared schools in which there are no physical, chemical studios, gymnasiums or school fields, especially small schools located in rural areas, are still unsolved, resulting in only the education of our children. At the same time, I call on Prime Minister Beata Szydło to stop work on education reform. In the case of such a profound and important reform, I ask that all the environments affected by this law be discussed. I would also ask that these changes be preceded by a very profound analysis of the effects that will arise after its adoption. The whole harm to these changes will directly affect the education of our children and grandchildren, which is why it is extremely important that such reforms be carried out in a very responsible manner, which we cannot say about this project.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u578	Dear Marshal, I declare that I was present at vote No 66 at the 30th session of the Sejm on 16 November 2016 at 3 p.m. 14 min 29 and 43 sec. (Rule 5: Report by the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the draft law submitted by the President of the Republic of Poland on the amendment of the Act on pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and certain other laws). My intention was to vote 'za', but for technical reasons (the failure of the voting device) I was unable to vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u579	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Warsaw is probably the only capital among the larger and medium-sized countries of the European Union, where there is no large concert hall. It is also a city where the chances for contemporary artists, especially young ones, entering into an adult artistic life, diplomats of the Academy of Fine Arts in Warsaw, are small for presenting their own achievements. There is a shortage of galleries available to these communities, a place of wide-ranging and friendly young artists, a place for creative environments to organize reviews of works, meetings and artistic debates. The space of the city is to a negligible extent organized by the presence of sculptures and monuments. Among the works of art, people's relationships are different, and social culture is elevated. It is worth considering the creation of an area of cultural objects in our city that offers opportunities for wider contact with music, painting and sculpture. I am talking about this in the context of today's work on the state budget, thinking about financial actions also in the long term.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-sejm-30-2.u580	Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. This concludes the 30th session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda of the 31st session of the Sejm, convened on 29 and 30 November and 1 and 2 December 2016, was served to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 20 min 04]]
