ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u1	I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Act for 2017. The text of the Act is contained in print No 317 and the report of the Commission In print No 317 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Krzysztof Mroz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u2	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! At its meeting on 28 November, the Committee on Budget and Public Finance dealt with the Law on Specific Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2017. It's a government project. The law was passed by the Sejm at its twenty-nineth meeting on 4 November. After considering this bill, the Commission recommends that the High Senate adopt this law: 6 senators were in favour, 1 abstained. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say a few more words about the bill. It is a around-budget law that is adopted every year. She serves like three purposes. First of all, it defines... it gives some greater flexibility in the implementation of the budget. It enables the government to achieve its priority objectives in the budget. Secondly, as if it were watching over all these principles: the expenditure principle, the EU rules so that the budget does not exceed the 3% deficit and so shifts some kind of expenditure, and some expenditure freezes to make all the prudential provisions that are required. What should I stress very clearly? As the Minister said... the Deputy Minister of Finance, as a result of the adoption of these provisions, will be able to freely implement budget expenditure for about PLN 2 billion. That doesn't mean we're cutting this bill by 2 billion. That means, for example. the possibility of shifting or changing sources of funding for specific tasks and the possibility of shifting funding for these tasks directly from the budget through various types of special-purpose funds, under which the tasks legally assigned to the budget will be carried out. Such key provisions, the principles of this law, referred to at the committee's meeting, are 8. The first assumption is to maintain the freezing of the amounts of budgetary units for which the budget can be paid for an occupational welfare fund. The second element is the suspension of the application of copy 1.5% in the Biocomponents Act. The third element is the financing of traineeships for doctors and nurses and residents from the Labour Fund. These are also changes in indicators in the Social Assistance Act. It is also an opportunity to take over funding of up to PLN 300 million for the modernization of the police... from the budget of the Ministry of National Defence for the modernization of the army. This is a year's shift from certain provisions under hunting law; this is about paying compensation. This is to make the training tasks of teachers more flexible. This is the redemption of the loan, which the Social Insurance Fund borrowed in 2014, for the amount of PLN 39 billion. And they're even smaller, so to speak, changes, like. payment by the National Environment Fund of contributions to international organisations for the Ministry of Environment. That's how the bill's gonna come out. The Legislative Office raised its objections to the article. 20. Of course, it did not question the substance of this article, but raised the question that Article. 20 was added at second reading in the Seym. And here the legislator raised the question that this should be a separate legislative change, especially since this change is the only one in this law that is permanent and not an accident, it does not apply only in 2017. However, the Ministry of Finance did not agree with such a suggestion, claiming that, in fact, the changes in the money from environmental bonds... Therefore, this is not only the case this year, that the bonds will be issued in 2017, but the redemption of these bonds will, of course, be in later years. Therefore, the position of the Ministry of Finance was such as to maintain this record. His reservations in the debate at the committee meeting were raised by the NSZZ.Solidarity representative, who raised the question of freezing the base rate thresholds for the calculation of the social fund. This fund has been frozen every year for 5 years and now in the next six years it would be the same. In the case of teachers, it was a little less, but for example. In the case of university staff, that's how it would be. Mr Grzegorz Bierecki announced that, after consulting the Ministry of Finance, he would try at least in part to respond to the expectations expressed by the NSZZ representative of Solidarity, of course, as far as possible in the budget. As I said, the committee has formally adopted this law without amendment. Of course, the Senators can submit amendments to the debate. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u3	Thank you, Senator. Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Senator Augustine. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u4	Senator rapporteur, I would like to refer to those contained in the article. 22 amendments to the Social Assistance Act. The amount of the grant referred to is, as far as I know, the environmental self-help homes. The representatives of the association, which brings together these houses, individual houses, probably to all senators, are reporting and alerting themselves that... this promise, which you voted for as well. The promise to gradually make up for the many years behind in raising wages for these workers by changing the algorithm was realized here, and unfortunately you are proposing to break this agreement. Was that what you said at the committee meeting? Whether there were reasons, budgetary implications, etc.?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u5	Thank you. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u6	Mr. Senator said the bill proposes a transfer of 300 million from the police to the military. Didn't the senator make a mistake? [[A little...]] Isn't it about moving from army to police? [[Yeah, from the army.]] And that's my first question. And the other one... If so, what kind of... Because you were talking about modernization, about moving from modernising the army to modernising the police. I would like to know what modernization investments in the military will therefore not be carried out and which will be carried out in the police. Can you answer more specifically?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u7	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to ask a question? No. You're welcome, Senator. Two down... Well, not two, there were more questions, but two senators came forward.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u8	Mr. Marshal, if I told you about moving from police to military, I was wrong. Yeah, it's a shift from modernising the army to modernising the police. A multi-annual plan for the modernisation of the police is being prepared. And here's the possibility of moving to 300 million, not 300 million, but to 300 million. It is, of course, about modernization, namely the purchase of equipment, communication, electronic shopping. This is all gonna go to investment. This isn't about keeping the police alive. Everything will turn out during the financial year. We know that the modernization fund of the Polish army is very large. We'll see how the bidding goes. It is known that certain issues do not depend on the government. We are talking about very large amounts for modernization of the Polish army, and such amounts sometimes cause some kind of shifts. If these funds for the modernisation of the army are not used, it will be possible to shift a small part to 300 million. In the context of many billions for the modernization of the army, these are really little money that we can move to modernization of the police and other uniformed services. But it's also going to increase security. In answer to Senator Flork's question... [[No, no, Senator Augustine.]] Excuse me, Senator Augustine. [[Oh, the marshal's watching.]] [[That's what I'm here for.]] [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you, Mr. Marshal. We passed this law in 2015 and in it were those thresholds that had... This law we move it by a year in relation to this timetable which was in the act. We are moving on to this threshold, but only because we have achieved nominally the amounts that resulted from the percentage. In 2017, the amount of PLN 1 thousand 200, which was mentioned in the explanatory memorandum of the Act, was nominally reached, so nominally these amounts will agree. You could say that what the environment wanted would be done nominally, and now, so to speak, we're holding back even more growth.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u9	Is that all of them? I don't see any more people willing to ask questions. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Development and Finance has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Minister Hanna Majszczyk is in the meeting. Would the Minister like to speak? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The assumptions of this around-budget bill, the draft being submitted to the government, were presented in detail by the rapporteur's senator. I would just like, in addition, to draw the attention of the High House to a number of assumptions which relate to this project and which, from the point of view of the various institutions, in particular the Minister for Development and Finance, are very important for their functioning and translate into the implementation of the sector deficit and the budget deficit in 2017. I would like to draw attention to the assumption, which may not directly affect the budget deficit or even the deficit of the sector, but certainly affects the results and presentation of these results by one of the basic institutions carrying out the tasks of the State towards society, namely the Social Security Office and the Social Insurance Fund carried out in that institution. In this draft around budget law it is assumed that the loans granted by the State Treasury to the Social Insurance Fund, which would become due at the end of March 2017. In view of the analysis of the possibilities of the FUS, it is not possible to repay these liabilities to the State Treasury, and therefore this draft around budget law for 2017 assumes the redemption of these loans to the State Treasury for the Social Insurance Fund. This remission, so that there is no doubt, will not affect the deficit of the sector, because the expenditure on which these loans were granted to the Social Insurance Fund at the time was already in those years in which these expenses were realized... In the years in which these expenditures were implemented, this adequately translated into a sector deficit. The redemption itself will of course improve the result of the fund It is not possible to repay these amounts At the same time, it will balance itself on the part of the government deficit of the public finance sector and the insurance part. Therefore, this does not translate into a situation... The threshold that we are obliged to respect for the European Commission is not to exceed 3% of the sector's deficit to GDP. It's not gonna be... With regard to the questions raised here, as regards the year shift in the process of raising the funding rate of the participants in these support centres at the level of the counties or the same environmental self-help homes, I would like to... As the rapporteur pointed out, as we read in the justification which accompanied the draft in 2015, when this proposal was submitted to the High House, the justification for the increase in funding for these environmental houses or support centres, it will be clear from it that the level of funding for these people was to be achieved over the years. This level has been implemented since the beginning of 2016 to the extent that it was only planned for 2017 and since this project provides for maintaining this level at 200% a base which is the dimension of the funding of these people... He will be maintained in 2017, so the level of funding, as Mr. Senator pointed out here, will nominally be preserved. Therefore, this will not translate into a reduction of these measures. When it comes to, for example, about 2015, more than PLN 450 million were allocated from the state budget to finance these centres at district and municipal level. So much for the supplement, the main things included in this project.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u11	Thank you very much, Minister. Minister, can I have another... I know there will be questions. At present, senators can report from a place of no more than a minute's duration to a representative of the government, to the Minister, who, of course, is connected with this item on the agenda. Senator Jan Rulewski called for a question. [[Yes. Good morning.]] Good morning. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u12	Thank you so much for the opportunity to ask a question. I note, Minister, the shortcomings in these around budget laws at least in relation to 2 issues. Firstly, it is necessary to implement the judgments of the Constitutional Court concerning the equalisation of the status of guardians of persons with disabilities. The issue, as you know, is expired and the intervention of the Minister of Finance would be most appropriate And that's right now. I don't see that. And two. Don't be offended, but the question is: have you already changed your mind or have the Ministry of Finance changed its mind, including you, about securing funds for the implementation of the Law on the Communist Opposition and the Persecuted? As you know, the Senate adopted a resolution, passed it to the Sejm, where intensive work is underway. And the question is: are there secure funds for the implementation of this law, however it may be, relating to a generation that practically every day is leaving us?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u13	Senator Piotr Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u14	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I'll go back to the article. 20, which amends Article. 84 in the Public Finance Act. There's already been a speech here. The rapporteur spoke about this. That this provision was introduced at second reading, that it is not of an incidental nature and introduces permanent changes. I read the bill and actually in the around budget bill we have such a record that to borrow, etc., but the proposal for a change was supposed to apply in 2017. I understand that if the amendment refers to the around budget law, it generally applies to next year, but such an introduction of this provision changes the law and it will be permanently incorporated into the law, which means it will not be in force at all, but throughout the duration of this change. What was the justification, Minister, in this matter? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u15	Thank you. Senator Kazimierz Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u16	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, in the bill we propose the possibility of transferring PLN 300 million from the Ministry of National Defence's budget to the Police, to the modernisation of the Police. According to the Act, we are obliged to set in the budget of the State resources for MON of 2% GDP. Does the transfer of this amount mean that there will be less than 2% in the state budget GDP earmarked for national defence? Is the project proposing a higher amount than 2% ? As a result, the shift of PLN 300 million will not reduce this indicator 2%. And the question is: how much money has already been spent this year from the Ministry of National Defence's budget for modernization, what percentage of the funds provided for the modernisation of the army, for investment purchases, etc. Were you able to make it happen?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u17	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u18	Thank you very much. As for the first question, regarding the measures for the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal... Mr. Senator, according to the Departments Act, the Minister of the Family, not the Minister of Finance, is responsible for the implementation of such matters. It is therefore difficult for me to refer to at what time, time and extent the solution for the implementation of this judgment of the Court could be presented to the High House. With regard to the security of funds... Here it must be noted that if we look at the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal concerning the strict and substantive extent to which it relates to these benefits, it will be evident that in fact these benefits, these losses or additional expenditures from the state budget would be small, some tens of millions of PLN. And in the reserve for liabilities due to the Treasury we have among others. 600 million zlotys. And I think that's when that reserve would cover such expenses. As regards securing funds for the implementation of the Act on opposition activists, the law submitted to Parliament includes funds of PLN 50 million. As regards the question of Senator Flork about the change that was introduced in the course of Parliament's work on the exemption of bonds issued by the Minister of Finance, this change was indeed introduced at the stage of work... and, in principle, according to art, it should be written directly in relation to 2017. There was a discussion on this subject and there were also arguments that the line between whether to narrow it down or to leave it open... This is a little bit, I would say differentiated, because the funds issued, these bonds that will be issued, will be bought out in other years than 2017. So that this provision was decided to be introduced. We, in principle, had no comment on this project. Such emissions have not yet been made, they will be made for the first time. Such plans... such, I would say, a policy towards the issue of bonds, where funds would be marked in some way, will be pursued for the first time, to encourage the placement of funds for a specific purpose. So it's hard to tell what size it's going to be. But it's really hard to judge the correctness here... I also understand the comments made by the Legislative Bureau, but, as I say, with regard to the justification that this buyout will take place in the coming years, it is difficult to have such a clear attitude that it is actually misconstrued today. In addition, sometimes there are solutions that have a direct impact on the financial year, and this also applies to those bonds that we are talking about. But whose consequences, whether you want or not, go beyond this year. And that's what's required in the regulations. This includes, among other things, the amendments proposed in the Article. The 22th Around Budget Act submitted to the High House on a one-year shift in support for beneficiaries, environmental participants in self-help homes. Because here, please pay attention, also to keep some certainty about how this funding will continue to look, there is a one-year shift. It is noted that in 2017 this amount will also be 200% of the basis. But in this proposal we also come up with... Only in 2018 will there be 230%. Thus it also goes beyond 2017, but this is the consequence of this shift. This is also the justification given for the bonds in question. As far as Senator Kleina's question on this 300 million is concerned, there is no breach of the above-mentioned provisions of the Modernization Act concerning 2% for national defence. It's said in the rules. And it's been settled many times, too. It is about securing funds at the planning stage of the budget rather than at the implementation stage. 'Cause it was here too... And that's the recipe. as correct as possible and from the point of view of the economics of spending resources as reasonable, because if it were otherwise, it would force any spending of funds, even when it would be unjustified. The senator asks if these measures are higher than 2%. They are higher because in the budget of the Minister of National Defence is secured 2% but there are still 200 million zlotys in reserve, although it is intended to buy VIP airplanes. And this is the reserve that the Minister of Defence's budget can also be provided for in connection with the implementation of this programme and the assumption that was adopted by the Resolution of the Council of Ministers of 2016. With regard to the percentage spent on modernisation this year, we do not see this in the budget, as far as this is concerned, I would say the ongoing mobilisation of funds for the different contributors. Currently, the MON budget is planned, as I remember, about 35 billion PLN, slightly over 35 billion PLN. And all these measures have now been planned by the Minister of National Defence to be removed, i.e. I want us to get these resources back online. So today in the plan and demand, also presented for December Just like we've analyzed it. The total appropriations shall be distributed as those for which the Minister for National Defence shall require. And today, that's the only information I can give you. How much of this went straight to modernization? We don't have that kind of information. Such information would simply have to be provided directly by the Minister of Defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u19	Senator Jan Rulewski reporting for questioning.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u20	Yes. Thank you so much for being able to ask questions freely. With the elegance that I have, however, I must point out to you, Minister, that you have not satisfied me with your answer. Pointing out that it wasn't me and a friend... Well, that's not the elegance or political culture in the government. The question was whether the measures were secured for the long-awaited implementation of the two judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal. You replied that the Ministry as if it had not presented the base, which is, I understand, some sort of solution. I'm the one making my offer to coordinate it. This is the first question, and I would like to get an answer as to whether these measures will be in any way. And the other one... I don't think we understand each other either, Minister. I didn't ask you how much money there is to implement the opposition law and the persecuted people, this past law, in force. I was referring to this law, which is currently in the process of working in the Sejm, because, as you know, the OSR shows that in this case the funds will be three times higher. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u21	Thank you very much. I'm also asking you to ask Senator Piotr Wach's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u22	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask you about the article. 15, namely the issue of redemption of loans granted to the Social Insurance Fund. The Minister was kind of on her own initiative to say something about it, but in my question, as if I wanted to clarify this matter more fully. Is this remission possible because the implementation of the budget deficit this year is lower than planned, and therefore the budget law will not be affected? I mean. Does that give you the opportunity? That's the first thing. And the other thing, because I didn't hear it or it wasn't said by you. What is the amount of these redemptions for the years 2009 and 2014? What is the total amount of these redemptions?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u23	Thank you, Senator. And Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u24	Minister, I would also like to ask you to repeat the amount of savings to postpone the implementation of the promised increases for employees of environmental self-help homes. I would just like to remind you that the motive for changing this funding rate to a participant, which you specifically refer to, was to raise the wages of the people employed there, because wages represent around 90%. the cost of these facilities. I don't know if the Minister is aware of the level of pay. Those workers who are required to be highly qualified, because their subjects are mentally ill and intellectually disabled, and most often deep, so care for them requires specialist skills, have wages within the range of PLN 1 thousand 500. One thousand 500 zlotys net. And now, Minister, the situation has changed, because the fact that nominally speaking about PLN 1 000 200 should not matter because the environment has changed. The average wage has increased considerably, the lowest wage has increased dramatically and the situation on the labour market has changed. The workers are leaving these facilities. This is a very bad move. I would ask you to answer the question whether you have taken these circumstances into account.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u25	Thank you very much. I ask the Minister to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u26	Thank you very much. As far as Senator Rulewski's questions are concerned, I'm sure... I think the senator misunderstood me. It needs to be linked to the family minister, and I answered your question. I was talking about the family minister because the final scope of the bill would depend on him. The senator asked about the Constitutional Tribunal. With regard to this, I said that these measures are provided to the extent that this would result strictly from the Court's ruling, in the commitment reserve where there are 600 million. That's the only reason I was talking about the family minister, because I don't really know how he's gonna prepare it. If this is drawn up strictly as the Court's ruling shows, it will result in some tens of millions, and these funds are in reserve. That's why I've been appealing to the family minister. And at the same time, I gave the senator an answer that the funds for fulfilling this judgment are in reserve 16 for the liability of the Treasury. As far as the second question is concerned, I can answer that the only measures that are such are measures. That's why I said 50 million. That's why I said 50 million. So I don't think I'm gonna answer that question either. If I say there's 50 million, that means there's no other means. There's only 50 million. There's no other bill you've been asking about. So I think I've given an answer on this, too. As far as Senator Wach's question on these loans is concerned, I answer that, as I said, It is about the amount of 39 billion PLN. This has nothing to do with the smaller implementation of the State budget deficit this year, because the loan appropriations are allocated not from expenditure that affects the budget deficit but from the expenditure of the State budget. So it doesn't have anything to do with the lower performance. This is only the result of the fact that the FUS is not able to repay these loans by the end of March, when their due date falls. Nor is this, as I mentioned, translated into the outcome of the public finance sector. In response to Senator Augustine's question, I would like to say that the measures that result from a year's shift in the level of funding for environmental participants in self-help homes, that is about 130 million, 130.135 million, because this, of course, depends on the number of participants, but that is how it is estimated. Mr. Senator, I think, however, that the minimum nominal amount that they wanted to achieve as a result of these changes is important. The explanatory memorandum indicated what level of funding the participant would like to achieve, precisely to cover the wage needs. I would just like to draw attention to a certain nuanced approach to financing these tasks, because these are tasks in the field of government administration. According to the system of the Public Finance Act, the tasks contracted are not financed as tasks relating to the financing of remuneration. This is a task, as the Public Finance Act itself points out, and in a certain roar which is transferred to finance, no remuneration is financed separately, separately the cost of operating the building or other components which, as a result, consist of this cost. So I understand, I think, that this must have been understood by the Members who recommended this project and presented it to the High House. I think that's how the cost was calculated. The aim was to achieve appropriate environmental changes related to operating costs, including wage changes and the need to raise them. Let us also remember that these are not homes of 24/7 care for these people, but they are day-to-day care homes. This means that this was the way it was constructed in those amounts that were wanted to be obtained under the parliamentary project, so that in 2017 it would be the sum of a thousand and two hundred and eighty. A few zlotys. And that's how she's gonna be. That's the information we have today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u27	Mrs. Marshal, but I was asking if you were aware that so much of the design time has changed in the environment of these environmental houses, such as minimum wages, average wages and labour market conditions. We have referred, Minister, not only to the minimum amounts. And that's why it's given as a percentage, not as a quota, to keep up with what's going on in the environment. The environment has changed a lot and the changes are positive, but not in the environmental situation of self-help homes, which we still want to slow down.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u28	Is there anything else the Minister would like to add to his statement?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u29	I reply directly to the Senator's repeated question: yes, it was analyzed, we analysed all these issues together with the Minister of the Family. As the senator rightly pointed out here, many things have changed. However, it must also be borne in mind that we have been dealing with deflation over the last two years, i.e. current maintenance costs as if they were not increasing, despite the fact that budget plans and projects for the following year presumably assumed inflation increases. Meanwhile, according to the data, there was a deflation here, which means that there was a partial reduction... Well, at least those costs which were originally assumed to increase were not increased when it was based on what was presented under the Budget Act that this inflationary increase would take place. Meanwhile, there is deflation, and these deflation factors, which translate into individual products that are purchased by these houses, also have an important translation into the costs of their operation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u30	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u31	Mrs. Marshal, Minister, I have a brief question about the article. 10 and suspension of the application in 2017 of a provision allowing financing of actions related to the promotion of biofuels, renewable fuels. Minister, do you understand that this is a task in terms of promotion? Sorry, I didn't ask that at the committee meeting. will not be implemented in 2017 from the budget? And if there is, how much are we talking about? Were there any adjustments to the amount to be used to promote this project?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u32	Thank you very much. Please ask Senator Władysław Komarnicki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Dear Minister, there was such a great promise that came across the country, the election promise of the PiS. Why isn't there anything in the senior drug budget in this situation? So it's the famous 70+. Second question. There were supposed to be raises for teachers. During the campaign it was very serious that it would be worth raising, but in fact, Minister, it turned out to be 30 PLN. In this situation, I have a question for the Minister as to whether the government is planning to raise this amount in the near future. And if so, maybe you could precisely define it? Third question. Why are 2 billion zlotys frozen in the welfare fund? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u34	Thank you. Senator Jan Rulewski. You're a senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u35	Thank you. I'm gonna be a little bit more pushy. I'm sorry, Minister. I'm gonna start with a brief piece of information, and I'm gonna ask you to confirm it. A huge amount of PLN 7 billion has been raised by the Labour Fund. Is there an exposition of the government, as these measures are spent, in the face of declining but occurring unemployment? Can it be assumed that there is a continued policy of creating reserves for, say, budget posts, or is there a policy to continue to reduce unemployment?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u36	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u37	Thank you very much. When it comes to measures to promote biofuels, it is about PLN 450 million, with some kind of tip, because it is 451 or 457 million, I do not remember at the moment. Let's say it's about PLN 450 million, you can round it like that. There will be no funds for this fund to be created to promote these biofuels, i.e. from this fund they will not be spent for this purpose. I would just like to point out that, one way or another, they could not be spent, there would be a specific freezing of funds on this fund, because we do not have a notification concerning the functioning of this fund and the making of this promotion. There is no notification of these provisions to the Commission. They were not notified, and therefore could not be spent, and therefore the placement of the sum of PLN 450 million on this fund would be a freezing of them and not intended for other purposes, which has also been done in this draft budget. As far as Senator Komarnicki's question is concerned, in terms of the medical bill for seniors or the teacher's raises... I would like to point out that the around budget law does not concern this at all. Such issues have been included in the Budget Act, which is only the subject of the Sejm's deliberations. And it is difficult today to say with what final regulations will come out of this Sejm, because, as normally every year, according to the powers of the High House, changes can be made. As I recall, half a billion PLN was foreseen for medicines for seniors in a project that came out of the government into parliament. The funding for teacher increases has also been secured in subsidies as for the entire budgetary sphere It is worth mentioning that the professional group of teachers in recent years has had a 50% increase in salaries, so it is not a group that has been frozen since 2010 as other groups, and yet in 2017 teachers will have an increase like everyone else. As far as 2 billion are concerned, I must admit that I do not know what the question is about, because no such amount is frozen as far as the Social Benefits Fund is concerned. Taking into account all the professional groups that are financed by the budget or by the uniformed services of the Minister of National Defence, of these 2%, the maximum amount that could be taken into account is about 280 million PLN, not 2 billion. There's never been that amount covered by the freezing, so I think there's been a misunderstanding, Senator. As for the question of Senator Rulewski about how the funds will be spent, then, of course, when the budget is being discussed... When the Labour Fund is presented, all the amounts and directions on which it will be spent will also be presented. Today, the Around Budget Act does not refer in this respect to the policy of spending funds, nor to the development of those 7 billions that you are talking about. Today's placement of medical and nursing expenses doesn't change that fact, because... I already told the committee at the meeting that financing this type of expenditure from the Labour Fund was the result of a situation that... if these expenses weren't in the Labour Fund, they would have to be looked for in the state budget, but it still wouldn't have been possible to reduce the expenditure of the Labour Fund. This is due to the changes made to the Employment Promotion Act in 2015 and the detailed calculation methods to the budget of expenditure on so-called expenditure. a programme for young people, which is also funded by the Labour Fund. In order not to exceed the sector deficit in 2017, the amount of PLN 1 billion located in the Labour Fund is important. [[I'm sorry.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u38	You wanted to ask, didn't you? Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u39	Yeah, because I didn't get... Precisely, Minister. First of all, I asked you to confirm whether there were two... seven billion or not. The lady replied, in my opinion... And I asked you to confirm if there is a deposit of about PLN 7 billion in the Labour Fund? And secondly, you know very well that having resources is not the same as having a mandate or a title to spend. The question was: is there a legislative exposition allowing these funds to be mobilised? Because today they're blocking themselves because of the legislative block.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u40	Mr. Senator, the budget bill doesn't apply to those issues that you're asking about. I can't remember how much money is available for the Labour Fund right now. The Labour Fund Plan is annexed to the Budget Act, adopted by the Council of Ministers, whose member is also the Minister of the Family responsible for the Labour Fund, and therefore, I understand, the measures that are planned and jointly adopted by the Council of Ministers are in line with the employment promotion policy that this Fund is implementing. [[But I still...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u41	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u42	Excuse me, but it seems to me that the Minister of Finance, and certainly raised to the rank of Minister of Development and Deputy Prime Minister, should see whether there are 7 billion or not. The senators may not see it, but as much as I think, Minister... And here's the question: will the Minister see this amount or not?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u43	For the state budget, Mr. Senator, it doesn't matter. For the Around Budget Act No, no, no, no, But if you ask me these questions when discussing the budget, I'm sure I'll answer everything for you, out of my mind.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u44	Thank you very much. Senator Andrzej Kaminski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u45	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, I would like to ask you about the basic amount to calculate the amount of the Social Fund, that it is still frozen at the level of the 2010 quota. In this case, there was also the request of the Independent Self-Governmental Trade Union.Solidarity to defrost this amount. I'm not hiding that a year ago I asked you that, I think, by the budget, too, and I got the impression that this year In other words, in 2017 the Commission adopted a This amount will already be unfrozen. So my question is this: does the Ministry provide for the freezing of this amount? And since when? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u46	Thank you. And Senator Marek Borowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u47	First, it's a loan case for the U.S.S.S. As I understand it, the budget for the next year does not provide for such loans. But do the rules that allow such loans still exist? I mean, if there was a need in a year, would the budget of a loan like this have been given? In short, do the existing rules continue to allow such loans to be granted? The second question concerns the caretakers of persons with disabilities. The carers of persons with disabilities who have acquired this disability under the age of 18 years receive perhaps PLN 1 thousand 300, and if the disabled person acquires this disability after the age of 18, they receive probably PLN 500 with something. The Court's judgment refers to the compensation of these amounts. Did I get that right... I'm asking because all the time we're discussing this, we hear that it's a very serious cost, that we have to think about it, that we can't do it at the moment. Did I understand correctly that these costs amount to tens of millions of zlotys?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u48	Thank you very much. Would any of you like to ask the Minister a question? No. So I'm asking you to answer the questions that have been asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u49	Thank you very much. With regard to the first question and the issue of the occupational welfare fund in the field presented by trade unions, our position can certainly not be positive. The impact of the proposals put forward during the discussions on this subject in the Committee on Public Finances is I have also talked about these consequences of the FCS today, with a maximum of about 280 million zlotys. And such funds are not planned in the budget and it is difficult to imagine where expenditure should be cut to cover the losses resulting from the redirection of funds to finance such an occupational welfare fund. Of course... As far as I can remember, the union rep's statement was kind of bi-optional. One option was to remove this freezing at all And then the effects would be, as I said, about PLN 277 or PLN 280 million... Because, of course, it also depends on what happens during the year and what would be the funds that employers would be obliged to shape. The second proposal would be to move the base to the calculation of the amounts from the occupational welfare fund for all for 2013 and for higher education for 2014. But I also believe that this is unbearable next year, because the impact would be 150 million if we didn't include MON here and about 170 million if we were to add the Minister of National Defence here, which, of course, would have to finance it within the framework of his 2% national defence, which he has provided in the budget. But in principle also this amount of PLN 150 million, which would be financed directly from the state budget for the remaining entities, is, in my opinion, a sum which at this stage and, of course, because of the government's presentation of this budget to the High House... Because, of course, I am not questioning the possibility for the Sejm to make transfers, whether by the Sejm or by the High House, to change the direction of expenditure, to cut down and to shift funds to others, because, in accordance with the Public Finance Act, any changes may, of course, be made in the course of Parliament's work, but subject to the fact that they do not lead to an increase in the deficit of the state budget. From there I am talking about regrouping expenditure, not about increasing expenditure. As far as loans are concerned, there are no planned loans to finance the Social Insurance Fund for the purpose of carrying out the tasks. Everything is planned in a grant that is addressed to the Social Insurance Fund. The provisions in the textual part of the Budget Act for 2017 assume the possibility of granting a loan to the Social Insurance Fund up to PLN 12 billion. Such a provision is, although the construction of the FUS expenditure alone does not provide for this loan. This is a prudential provision because, since the payment of pensions is guaranteed by the State, there is no possibility that there will be no funds to pay those pensions. That's why budget security is being made just in case there's any difference to... but I'd like to make one more point. This structure of the Social Insurance Fund grants also takes into account the changes in the retirement age planned for the next year. So I'm sure this loan isn't constructed so it can be granted because there are no changes in retirement age. She is, as it were, and is merely an expression of the concern that, in the event of unforeseen circumstances, the need to direct pensions to more people than expected in the planning of expenditure for 2017, these measures are always set up and the obligation to pay pensions or pensions is implemented on time. There was still a question concerning people with disabilities and this... Mr. Senator, of course I would not like to argue about this judgment, but this sentence, in my opinion, is not a sentence which makes it equal to PLN 1 thousand 300. It was the difference between the amount of 540 and the amount of 600 zlotys. But it's about carers, not children. It's about adults. There were other ceilings, this sentence is old, and in this respect, as it was analyzed... His line was coming up. as if in the first outline of the solution to this problem. When we counted these effects a few years ago, it turned out that if we strictly execute the judgment of the Court, only to the extent to which it relates, it would be tens of millions of zlotys. But these are not the consequences of raising the amount to PLN 1 000 300, which the senator asked about. [[I know...]] These effects would probably be closer to PLN 1 billion than those tens of millions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u50	Thank you, Minister. [[May I?]] The senator still wants to ask. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u51	Well, it's a good thing we cleared that up, but I don't really agree with the Minister on the interpretation of the Court's ruling. We have discussed this subject here several times and we have absolutely not considered such a version that it is an increase from 500 to 600 PLN, only if at all, it is up to 1 thousand 300 PLN. You can talk about something else, because there were also ideas to reduce this amount of PLN 1 thousand 300 and increase the amount of PLN 500. But let's just leave it on the side. I understand that if this was a full increase, it would be about PLN 1 billion. But I'm going back to this loan and grant. Is the grant to the Social Security Office, which is currently established in the Budget Act, a commitment? I don't think so, do I? I mean, you can pass the ZUS less than it's founded there.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u52	Senator Jerzy Czerwinski wants to ask you a question, right? You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u53	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask you a question about the article. 20. This is an article, let's call it non-epic. Well, here is a reference to three provisions, three articles, which are included in the public procurement rules and in the rules on gambling. And these are two different laws: there's the Public Procurement Act and there's the Gambling Act. So I have a question about this appeal. Do any of these laws... Because it's ambiguous. Well, unless there's a third law that combines public procurement with gambling, only there's no link here, please note, there's no designated Journal of Laws. It's so interesting that these gambling games are coming... It's been changed. This change involves adding this law on gambling. And there is a new Article. Article 42 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2, only that in public procurement he is repealed, and in gambling he is not at all There's no mouth. 2. The question is this: is this a clear indication of which rules do not apply? These are two laws, three different articles, and an article. Article 42 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 does not appear in any of these laws, as far as we are talking about basic laws, i.e. public procurement and gambling laws. Well, maybe there's another law that covers both of these ranges.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u54	Do any of you have a question for the Minister? No. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u55	Thank you very much. As for the loan, if the FUS demand is less, it will not be granted, but if it is not granted, and there will be shortages in funds normally obtained by the Social Insurance Fund, then without this grant... Sorry, it's not about the loan. It's about the grant. Well, the FUS will not be able to fulfil its basic obligations in the form of pensions payments. Today's calculation of the needs of the FUS regarding the payment of pensions in 2017 requires funding of this institution in the amount of PLN 47 billion, but this funding was planned in the form of grants rather than loans. Of course, you can imagine that normal FUS revenues will be better, that there will be more payments directly from contributions, but then the FUS will have no reason at all to ask the Minister of Finance to provide such a subsidy. According to the Social Insurance Fund Act, a grant or loan is transferred to the Social Insurance Fund to cover the shortfalls and therefore they must have insufficient resources so that we can mobilise the grant or loan. And if the senator's question was whether a grant could be replaced by a loan, then it would not be an obligation. I reply that no president of the Social Security Office, who manages this fund, will apply for a loan with a grant plan. Well, in total, it would be an act that disrupts the functioning of an institution that may apply for a grant. A grant that is covered by the plan. So I guess that's the move... The funds are mobilised because of the needs of the beneficiary, because it is he who knows what the shortage is. And I think that if the beneficiary wanted to change the source of this funding, it would be neither logical nor economic if the Social Insurance Fund had been involved in the additional debt rather than using the subsidy provided for in the plan. I don't know if that was the senator's intention, but...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u56	May I, Mrs. Marshal? The Minister was very well aware of my intention, although it was veiled. Let me put it this way: from the point of view of the president of the Social Security Office, of course it's better to get a grant than a loan, because it's easier, but we know that these loans are then cancelled, so it's all the same, or... Nevertheless, from the Minister's point of view... Well, I'm not going to develop it, but I'm going to replace it. 12 billion grants with a loan of 12 billion 'cause so much is allowed to borrow 'cause there are some benefits. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Hanna Majszczyk: May I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u57	Yes, of course, please refer to the senator's statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u58	Senator, please note that in previous years Some were better, some were worse. It has always been possible to grant a loan higher than the one that actually was in the plan. Such instruments could have been used, but never reached after, because it is uneconomical, requires the participation of the President of the FUS, and also from an economic point of view, but also from a logical point of view, there is no indication of debt of the individual when there is a grant. This is a financial plan that is approved and its non-fulfilment involves blocking measures that would have to be implemented. This is subject to a normal procedure under which, with such a blockage, I would say, you come to the High Chamber, I mean the Sejm. The Sejm must express its opinion on these blockades. So it's not like the finance minister just won't grant. He would de facto have to block expenditure, because this is due to the procedural order of this procedure and not just change the way it is financed. I don't think it's possible to assume things like this in any other form than what we're talking about. Mr Czerwinski's question. This appeal is indeed to the act on gambling, but in the article. 42 is a reference to the Public Finance Act. Please note that this is also about disabling... As far as public procurement is concerned, they are today, too, in these exemptions. This is not a change which has been made in Parliament. This is where he goes, among other things. So that in the draw among the participants who buy the bonds, they could have some bonus, so that they wouldn't apply the gaming laws... I don't think there'll be any problem with applying the right rules when you draw these bonds and give them the right bonuses. The aim was also to ensure that the funds for the sale of these bonds were properly intended for the area of environmental protection. And that's why you had to turn it off. here the application of certain provisions of the Public Finance Act which say that, in principle, the funds obtained cannot be marked. And here it would be so important to take this environmental direction into account.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u59	Thank you very much. And Senator Krzysztof Frost. Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u60	Minister, several senators here referred to the issue of the formal redemption of the loan to the Social Insurance Fund. I'd like the Minister to confirm my reasoning. Ladies and gentlemen, we in this bill are depreciating 39 billion loans which have been granted from the State budget to the Social Insurance Fund. I think it's from the years 2009 and 2014. It was such creative accounting that Minister Rostowski invented to give loans just to make it all look nice in the budget, that's right... [[Question, question.]] [[It's for discussion.]] ...and so that this 3% prudential threshold is not exceeded the budget deficit. It was a runaway. It was known that the Social Insurance Fund, which has a deficit every year, will not repay these loans. This could be done either by remission or by shifting the repayment deadline for these loans, by extending that period. As far as I'm concerned, I'm asking the Minister to confirm It is in the draft budget for 2017, in these plans there is no loan, but there is a grant. This grant for the Social Insurance Fund has 100% To cover this difference, that deficiency that will be in the FUS. I believe that this is a fairer approach, we give a grant that covers these fund shortages, and we do not play what unfortunately took place under the Civic Platform and the PSL, i.e. the granting of loans, which, as Senator Borowski said, are only on paper. After all, we are aware that they would never be able to be repaid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u61	Thank you very much. Any more questions for the Minister? I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u62	I can confirm what I've already said in my reply to Senator Borowski. There are no loans set up in the 2017 plan for the funding of the Social Insurance Fund.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u63	Thank you. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u64	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! This last speech inspired me to ask the following question... If it is difficult for the Minister in view of the situation, please do not answer. Please tell me: is the loan instrument an unfair instrument or an honest instrument, and why is it used at certain times, i.e. a loan is used and grants are granted at certain times? Could you elaborate on that? Because I want to discuss it in the debate.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u65	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u66	The facility for granting loans to the Social Insurance Fund is in accordance with the Social Insurance Fund Act.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u67	Thank you. Are there any more questions? There isn't. Minister, thank you very much. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Hanna Majszczyk: Thank you.]] Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm opening the discussion. I'll ask Senator Grzegorz Bierecki to speak. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u68	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Thank you for this detailed explanation of the bill under discussion. Before I present an amendment, which I would be delighted to make in a moment, I would like to address a little more with regard to this discussion on the loan to the Social Insurance Fund. Because every time Minister Rostowski proposed such a solution, I asked the question: 'And what will the FUS pay off and how will it look like?'. Well, a clean solution has been found: this loan is terminated. It was known that the F.S.U.S. would not repay this loan. In the Senate, the practice of such obscuration of the state's finances, the financial situation of the FUS was on the agenda in the previous term, and no one had a problem with it. But I'll tell you, e.g. The Brazilian Senate has impeachmented the President of Brazil for this. Even the Senators of the President's party had no doubt that something like this, for what it was called, for making public finances, for obscuring the situation, should be thrown out of office. And on 31 August 2016, the President of Brazil kicked you out precisely because by means of accounting tricks she obscured the image of state finances and thus prevented Parliament from making the right decisions. Thus, although the assessment of this type of action was not so strict in our House in the previous term of office, there are different standards in other countries. I hope that, in doing the right thing, by dying this loan and actually financing the FUS with subsidies, we do not hide the state's financial situation, we do not obscure the picture of state finances and provide Parliament with the data needed for a real assessment of the state's finances. I do not call for the removal, because Minister Rostowski was ex officio removed by the voters, so we no longer have to do anything about it, but it is important that such standards also apply in our country in the future. But I am moving on to an amendment that I would very much like to present to the High House. This amendment concerns the increase of write-downs to the occupational welfare fund and the social funds of uniformed services. This increase applies actually to all budgetary units, local government employees, but also to entrepreneurs. Freezing the amount of the Social Fund at the level of the Fund in 2010 which concerned large groups of workers, we are slowly defrosting. Why aren't we freezing quickly and completely? Because we have to get out of this freezing, out of this cold slowly. In short, we have to go slow. This repair is implemented consistently, but gradually. Hence, my amendment in order to assume that in 2017 this is the average monthly salary in the national economy for which the funds for the social benefit fund are calculated will be at the level of the average monthly salary in the national economy in the second half of 2012. There is also a change in the pension fund for professional soldiers and their families regarding the adoption of the 2012 indicator. Finally, the social fund referred to in the Act on Pension Provision of Police Officers, Internal Security Agency, Intelligence Agency, Military Counterintelligence Service, Military Intelligence Service, CBA, Border Guard, Government Protection Office, State Fire Department, Prison Service and their families. Here, too, is the 2012 indicator. This proposal concerns those labour groups which have the longest frozen base amount, where the freezing lasted the longest. So in relation to these people, intervention is needed this year, change is needed. That's an 8.4% increase. in relation to the current indicator. We estimate the cost of adopting this amendment at about PLN 50 million, the cost for the state budget. So it is with great pleasure that I offer you this change to the senators. We can get out of this cold slowly. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u69	Thank you very much, Senator. I'd like to speak with Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u70	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I was concerned to hear your answer on the possible implementation of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal when it comes to caring benefits. [[Quiet, please, ladies and gentlemen. Quiet, please.]] It is a really good understanding of the judgment which requires equalizing the benefits of those who receive them after they stop working, or those who have never taken it because they have dedicated themselves to care. In the new year they will receive this benefit probably even in the amount, if I remember correctly, 1 thousand 410 PLN. That's what they're supposed to do. And this is the threshold to which they should be aligned, unless we take the assumption that we will lower these guardians, but the judgment of the Constitutional Court is clear. Now my concern is all the more... Because if this is not foreseen here and probably not foreseen in the budget, then how to take seriously the words of Minister Michalkiewicz and even Minister Rafalska, their statements at the meetings of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, that this issue will be settled in the new year, that is, this financial year, which we are talking about, finally. I'm losing hope. I think that this is such a first signal that, contrary to the judgment, carers of persons whose disability occurred after the age of 18 cannot expect similar comparable conditions to those who have benefits because they have resigned to care for children whose disability occurred before the age of eighteen. The second point I would like to raise is the issue of an occupational welfare fund. Well, let's be honest: that's why, as Senator Bierecki says, we were very strongly criticized for these solutions, that they were really, in accordance with the law on which they are concerned, or the laws on which they are concerned, to be addressed, well, not to all employees, but, according to the company regulations, to those who are in a particularly difficult situation. And the 50 million mentioned, of course, is some kind of cry-free movement. If you divide it into those groups that we're talking about in zlotys, it's gonna be really unnoticeable. To say no: funny money, when you assure us that the budget is on solid ground, we can do better. In a moment, in this sitting, we will be talking about billions of PLN that we will be able to afford, and here, from this speaker, we also hear that due to VAT sealing in the budget will arrive tens of billions of PLN. Well, it seems to me that this is a serious inconsistency and a violation of the word repeatedly given here, that if you take over power, this social fund will be changed according to wage increases in individual years. And finally, I'm going to go back to the question that I've been asking the Minister so much here. I do, as the Minister knows, social issues, social affairs, so I really know the situation of environmental self-help homes. To those issues that I have been saying that these people, even after the raises, the Minister, to a greater extent than before, stand aside from what is happening around them... Imagine that the increase in the minimum wage that you are announcing again will result in the lowest wage being paid after the increases of many of these workers. And this is a situation so contrary to a promise that it was supposed to be different. It's not like you can relate to it in the amount of money. You'd have to see how the amount was to the minimum wage, to the average wage. And one more element to consider: very similar work is done by employees of occupational therapy workshops, which from the State Fund for Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities 2 years ago and last year we raised salaries. Thus, 2 comparable groups of employees have diametrically different wages for similar work. I don't think it's defensible. The money we're talking about isn't the kind of money that couldn't be found in the budget, not to say "cut." I make such a commitment here that I will look for them and look for them effectively. And that's why I dare you, Mrs. Marshal, to make an amendment to your hands. I think that when you said that the situation of the participants and the workers of environmental social welfare homes was bad, you were right. We, as the rulers of that time, admitted this right to you, changed the bill. And it is absolutely unacceptable that you are now making a move against what was your intention. I'm making this amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u71	Thank you very much, Senator. I'd like to speak with Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. Then Senator Marek Borowski and Senator Kazimierz Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u72	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! A draft around budget bill is such an announcement, you can say Not entirely, of course, but to a large extent. The direction, how it will look and what the next year's state budget looks like. And I'd like to go back. . as a person who also worked in the budget committee in the previous term of office For what's happening now, like the same senators, then the opposition party, and today the ruling party, they're saying something very different. I understand, you can say that sometimes the point of view depends on the punk seat, but turning everything upside down is already a little indecent. I remember speeches about whether it's about budget laws or already budget laws, these voices about reaching into deep pockets to help the poorest ones, and what emerges from this bill about budget... If this miraculous frostbite, which the chairman of the budget committee referred to, at the level of PLN 50 million, is such a fantastic undertaking, it will be a freezing lasting six years, because it will take 300 million to achieve this. That's one thing. Secondly, I would like to say that the conditions for creating a around budget law or a budget law in 2008, 2009, 2010 were radically different than in 2016, as regards the state budget, the economic situation. Well, not anybody else, but the current government is talking about the fantastic state budget condition. And what do you see? In what direction is the Polish state going under your rule? The direction is this: maximum consumption, as little investment as possible. But also about the consumption that you have been asking for, that there should be an increase in consumption in relation to the various types of social groups in need... Well, you're gonna say, "Yeah, well, we've introduced 500+." We'll be hearing it for 20 years anyway. We once introduced 500+, and so we ruined the economy. Yeah, but we gave 500 plus. Well, what's the big deal? That the gross domestic product does not grow, that there is no investment, that Poland is not developing? Yeah, but we gave 500 plus. Therefore, if you're looking at these preliminary assumptions, then... It's not like there's a word in here. Previously, there have been, even in the difficult situation of the state budget in terms of the socio-economic situation, increased money for road funds, investments... We talked about this. But if the savings of 300 million are made here At the expense of the social fund, which is the most in need, and then fantastically defrosts, or at the expense of people in self-help homes, very disadvantaged people in need of such assistance, then these declarations about ensuring equal support for citizens, especially those in need of help, are somehow missing... Also, if we treat the state budget, it's a more complicated family budget. I think that only when we see a specific budget will we talk about it in detail, but it can already be seen that the family in Poland will only consume it. And when you look at the history of families, when you look at the history of countries, you can see that countries that only consume and increase consumption end badly. In addition, we add these elements related to saving on the most deprived. So the declaration from the previous period is slightly missing its implementation today. If, ladies and gentlemen, we add to that... You guys remember, don't you? I speak especially to those senators who were in the previous term of office. How much was there of the throating that we destroyed the defence of the Polish state, because we spent not 2%, and 1.9% Or 1.95%. And you're already planning that 300 million zlotys, probably for a good cause, are needed. The police, the Border Guard and all who are listed here... If necessary, we need to save separate expenses and allocate money to this task in the state budget, not hide that we are spending PLN 2 million, but maybe we will still draw PLN 300 million to another task. Looking at my sympathetic chairman of the Health Committee, I would like to say that You remember. We had a very different opinion, maybe not in the votes, but in the discussion. How much discussion was there about not financing doctors' internships from the Labour Fund, now nurses. You guys pulled your hair out of your head saying you shouldn't do it like this. I thought it should be done, and it's good that it's in the budget. But why take people's time and talk nonsense about not doing it and so on? If that was the case, you shouldn't have done it in this budget. I believe that financing this project from this source is a good move; it is so in order to explain how today's reality fits into all declarations. And if we are talking about the amount of PLN 50 million, which increases the amount of PLN 50 million, according to the amendment Social fund for the most deprived... I do not see any proposals in the Around Budget Act for reducing administrative costs in Poland, for reducing administration. From what I hear, the number of ministers is probably the largest since 1990; ministers, deputy ministers and other functionaries. From what I hear, it is clear that compared to other European countries in this area - It's about the number. We're also leading. Therefore, you are looking for the money that is needed, not where it needs to be. As I said, the budget does not refer at all to the assumptions of the around-budget laws to increase investment, to increase the potential of Poland, but only to consumption. Of course, this will give a great deal of satisfaction to some environments, but in the future we will pay very dearly for this type of policy, i.e. the policy of giving, giving, giving, not having a perspective, unlimited administration and funding from sources that should be used to help those most in need, what should be financed from other sources. There aren't two gentlemen here, but I'm just gonna say a few words about the relationship between the loan and the grant, the blackout, the other unclean actions, the honesty. Well, Mr. Bierecki's hitting honesty again. I would like to repeat what the Minister said: the loan and the grant are also acceptable legal forms. May I never see in Poland a situation in which the state of public finances will require that I grant the FUS a loan. I wonder what it will be like to give such a loan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u73	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Marek Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u74	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! What I wanted to know was from the Minister, asking her questions. I was moved to speak by Senator Mroza and Senator Bierecki, of course, on the financing of the Social Insurance Fund by means of loans. Indeed, the loan is a rather specific form. I'm sure she's gonna be dead because it's known that the FUS has permanent. It can be said that he's congenital. A shortage, and he'll have it. The advantage of the loan is a word of explanation for those who may not fully know these complexities. The point is that it does not burden the financial result of the budget, i.e., in short, it does not increase the budget deficit but increases the public debt. It's just that the loan isn't some worthless piece of paper, it's just an authorization to spend money and that money needs to be earned. Of course, they are obtained by selling bonds and increasing public debt, but the budget deficit is not increasing. Senator Frozz has developed a theory, namely the theory that the previous loan financing was creative accounting, actually not very honest, and at the moment the government is resigning from it, does not assume any loan in the budget and that is fair. That's why I asked, specifically, if... Oh, there's Senator Frost. I'm talking to the senator right now. I am talking about this, Mr Senator, as you mentioned in your developed question, namely that the previous government financed the Social Security Office with loans that it was creative accounting, not very honest, and now the government does not provide for a loan and that is fair. Well, I've given your statement a little bit more or less, haven't I? [[Yes.]] I would like to say that it would be fair to introduce a provision that no loans should be given. That's why I asked the Minister if there was such a provision. There isn't. Few of this, there is no such provision, and in the Budget Act it is stated that a loan can be granted, up to 12 billion PLN. So, Mr. Senator Frost, your concept is falling apart. Because if you can, that's fair. So please don't use words like that. We can talk about creative accounting if we want, go ahead. But not about honesty or dishonesty. To be honest, I'd be in favour of simply eliminating that possibility. Unfortunately, other expenditure needs to be limited in a situation where there is a shortage of resources for the CSO. Then it's okay. But as long as this is done, let us not speak of honesty or dishonesty. It's kind of like Let's say the government's safety valve, that's all. As for Senator Bierecki's statement... Oh, there's Senator Bierecki. Welcome. Well, I always listen very carefully to what Senator Bierecki says, because his rhetorical talent often bears him. He likes different examples, he likes to appeal to something. Yesterday, for example. gave a new definition of the majority, stating that most Poles would benefit from a reduced amount of free money. By the way, Mr. Senator, the basic free amount, which concerns the vast majority of Poles, remains unchanged, is frozen. So it's okay to... That's à by the way. freezing. So, frankly, 20 million Poles who will have the same amount Not to mention those who don't have it. It will pay a higher tax because the amount has been frozen. So much for last night's speech. Now I'd like to get back to what you said today. Well, you have invoked Brazil and Mrs Dilma Rousseff, whom the Brazilian Parliament has actually removed from power just in favour of - As you said, sir. "Creative accounting." You said, "Here you go, it's a tough habit in Brazil, and it's something we can do to ourselves. I already told you that this bill provides for a loan of up to 12 billion PLN. If the government had done this, you would have had to do so, so to speak, your intention to file an impeachment motion. But let's leave it. I'm going back to Mrs. Dilma Rousseff. Well, Mrs Dilma Rousseff actually took loans from state banks, which she financed so-called. Family programs, you can say that the Brazilian 500+... Oh, yeah, yeah. Sir, that's right. I have nothing to do with 500+. The 500+ program fit in the budget, so... that's not the point. I'm showing an example. She financed it... Why did I give this example? It's not that she's financed some, let's say, unfavorable things. Right? She financed social things. Only the problem, Mr. Senator Bierecki, wasn't that she was doing it, she was doing it without congressional approval. But with us, everything happens with permission. Loans that have been granted since 2009 were foreseen The Sejm and the Senate agreed to it. So that the Brazilian example, Mr. Senator Bierecki, is another example of the economical management of the truth on your part. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Applause]] [[I'm gonna sit down.]] I want you to know that you will always have a faithful listener in me. Thank you. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[It's better to get ready...]] [[You're the one that's involved.]] [[...or don't say a word.]] [[Fiksum-dyrdum...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u75	You're welcome, Senator Kazimierz Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u76	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would also like to refer, in one sentence, to the words of our President, Senator Bierecki, who spoke about a major change in the amount of the social benefit base by moving from 2010 or 2011 to 2012. This is not a revolutionary change, Senator. To be fair, this is a principle that gives the same situation, or maybe even a slightly worse percentage, as it was when the budgets were prepared by the Civic Platform, because the increase you moved by only one year to the base of 2012. If you had said that you were moving to the base of 2015... That would indeed be an important change from the point of view of the great revolutionary things you mentioned. So nothing's changed. Of course it will be more, but over the years there have been changes. You went back, only moved by one, two years... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u77	Thank you very much. Senator Krzysztof Frost. There you go, Mr. Senator. And then you're Senator Bierecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u78	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I must refer to Mr. Marshal Borowski's statement. I'm fully upholding my statement. What the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Development and Finance has announced... We in the budget for 2017 planned a grant for the Social Insurance Fund, because it is known that for several years the Social Insurance Fund has not balanced, i.e. the revenue from the contributions to the Social Insurance Fund does not cover expenditure on the benefits paid. Between 2009 and 2014, Mr Rostowski's method of... This is a little bit different, especially as regards EU legislation on this deficit, it is written differently. We have planned that all this deficiency, which is planned in the Social Insurance Fund in 2017, through a grant... [[What will the amount of this grant be?]] You know, it depends on... the budget is in the Seym. I suspect it's gonna be about 50 billion if it's okay... [[47 billion.]] Please? [[Forty-seven.]] I told you, about 50... I've been going over this budget a little bit. And that's generally an honest approach. There is a shortage, the state budget guarantees the payment of pensions and pensions, and we simply, as Marshal Borowski said, have to save on something to secure 100% the payment of pensions and pensions. During the state of government, however, this was done unfairly. What was this dishonesty, ladies and gentlemen? That you granted a loan to the Social Insurance Fund, not a grant, although it was known in advance that the Social Insurance Fund would not repay this loan, because since it has a deficit, it is difficult to expect that loan to be repaid. And you only did it so that the indicators would match, and Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki said clearly that we want to create a budget. And that's the around-the-budgetary bill. Not for indicators... [[But we did give...]] ...for people only. We want to move away from this polarisation and diffusion model for the sustainable development model. Speaking of some dishonesty, I was thinking of index dishonesty. That's how you juggled... Because anyway, this money has to go to the FUS, but let's do it the way it should be, as Mr Bierecki said. If we guarantee the payment of pensions, then we simply grant the grant, and we don't grant the loans that we then cancel. And we are making two changes in 2017. First of all, we give up such insolvent loans, and second of all, we cancel loans from the years 2009 and 2014, which means we clean history so that we do not repeat these incorrect mechanisms in 2017. Of course, the possibility of granting loans to the Social Insurance Fund theoretically still exists in law, but according to the Prime Minister's declarations, this currently planned grant is intended to cover the planned deficit of the Social Insurance Fund. Well, there may be a number of extraordinary situations, which is why this flexibility must be preserved, but when we adopt budget and around budget laws, we do not plan to transfer the loan in advance, which would then have to be canceled. And that's what I'm talking about. That's the kind of dishonesty I'm talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u79	Thank you, Senator. President Grzegorz Bierecki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u80	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I've been called so many times, I've had to go out to that podium, although I might not actually go out, because it's not the role of senators to catch. for the words of the other senators and to make the Chamber of the Higher to the Contact Glass, in which such ridiculous pieces appear. Right? In the Contact Glass, it is excellent, not here. Of course I misspoke. The senator knows that, because I've been giving the numbers by presenting this amendment. I mean, more people are gonna benefit, not most people are gonna benefit. It was understandable for everyone in this House, because I have given the exact numbers of people affected by this change, and from this relingualism, the senator is building a great structure here. I think that you are doing this completely unnecessary because it reduces the quality of the debate in this House and is really only suitable for the Contact Glass. I must also refer to your defence speech you gave here about Minister Rostowski, claiming that if something is legal, it is fair and correct. Because this creative accounting was legal, it was honest. Yes? After all, before you passed the law that allowed this loan, it was a whole series of events. You use reasoning, which is a typical procedure... Oh, I'm not gonna use any terms, but this is a typical procedure that removes the causes and only shows the effect. You could say that all the construction we're talking about... And what we're talking about is that you can't keep such creative accounting. If you claim that this construction was legal, i.e. Honestly, that's what we're different about, in short. We're different in this case. We believe that Parliament should know the real state of the state's finances and that such accounting tricks should not be applied. It's a common standard. But finance ministers in various developed countries are hitting economically, in short. So I don't think it's necessary for you to speak defense, Mr. Marshal Borowski, to speak here because you were simply defending the wrong case, defending the wrong case. We shouldn't, we won't, we don't want to use such tricks, and the fact that earlier, before granting this loan, before accepting the loan, you made a change to the law that allows such a loan to be granted... It's logical, that's the sequence of events, and I have to deal with it. So, out of these ridiculous speeches by Marshal Borowski, we came up with a speech defending a bad case and a bad finance minister. I must also refer to what Senator Klein said, who said we weren't making any changes. I wrote here: there will be more, but this is not a change. That's what the senator said, if I remember correctly. Well, if there's more, it's a change. [[The base has been in place since 2012.]] The logic of speech indicates that there is a change here. I've reported an amendment that it's an 8.4% change. in relation to existing regulations. It's worth it for everyone who listens to us to understand that. It seems, Mr. Senator... After all, you have been responsible for budgets for 8 years as chairman of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, you have tabled these amendments, you have encouraged the Senate to freeze these social funds, so I don't think you're the right person to criticize us now for the fact that by 8.4% We're increasing the social fund. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Borowski. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u82	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Mr. Senator Bierecki, the debates have a thing for themselves, that they also have funny elements, humor, and you have to show a little sense of humor... [[But they can't limit themselves to that.]] No, no, they certainly didn't. You cleverly missed the second part of my speech, although you did not really say the reasons for the appeal of Dilma Rousseff, and this example was supposed to show how liberal the rules are in us, while they should be definitely sharper. That's by the way. And as for what you're going to say, it's mostly... [[Contact glass...]] I was criticizing the words about dishonesty, because this provision was not only applied, but it can also be applied now, so consider it. That's one thing. Secondly, you suggested that this provision was adopted by Minister Rostowski, in short, so that he could then apply these practices. Well, I assure you that this provision had been passed much earlier, I do not know if it was not under the rule of AWS in 1998, because then the fund law came into force. So, you see, these things have to be checked, not just thrown, on a principle, and maybe something will grow out of it. And I ask for such a debate, because then it will be substantive, it will not be an attempt to turn around and criticize in such a way that a contact glass is created here. The contact glass you started yesterday. Yesterday, when I told you that maybe you didn't understand most of it, you had the opportunity to go on the stand and say, "I'm sorry, I'm sorry." But you didn't come in and tell me. Today you are talking about the fact that this is a contact glass. These things need to be straightened out right away. Then there won't be any problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u83	Please take the floor of Senator Kleina.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u84	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Law and Justice adopted the 2016 budget and then adopted those freezes that were previously prepared by the evil government of the Civic Platform. This year you're moving your valorization period by one year, which means you're using it. ♪ if you're already gonna ♪ The same practice and principle that the Civic Platform government has applied, and you make it a great event that people have, so to speak, to see how good Law and Justice are for all. Well, you just can't do it because of simple honesty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u85	Thank you very much. Would any of you like to take the floor in the discussion? I don't see any calls. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing by Senator Grzegorz Bierecki and Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Hanna Majszczyk: Thank you very much.]] As legislative proposals have been submitted, I ask the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. States of Senators, I propose to supplement the agenda with points: the Act on amending the Polish Charter Act and the Act on Foreigners and consider it as item 15 of the agenda; Act amending certain laws in connection with the establishment of the Ministry of Interior and Administration and consider it as item 16 of the agenda; amendment of the Animal Protection Act and consider it as item 17 of the agenda; amendment of the Rural Development Support Act with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme 2014-2020 and certain other laws . and consider it as item 18 of the agenda; the Act on the Declaration of the Statute of the International Center for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology, drawn up in Madrid on 13 September 1983. and consider it as item 19 of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. I can't hear you objecting. In the absence of any objection, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposals submitted. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the universal obligation to defend the Republic of Poland and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 337 and the committee's report in print No 337 A. [[Talking in the O.R.]] But please be quiet. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Defence, Senator Jarosław Rusiecki, to present a report to the committee. [[Voice from the room: He's gone.]] I'd like a call from the senator... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: He's on his way.]] Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Senate! High Izbo! Minister! Officers! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to present on behalf of the Senate Committee on National Defence a report on the Act adopted by the Sejm on 16 November amending the Act on the universal obligation to defend the Republic of Poland and certain other laws. I do this on behalf of the committee with a sense of great honour and also in confidence about the historical importance of this fact in terms of the need to strengthen the security of the Polish state, and about the historicality of this moment, because thanks to this law we are creating a new kind of armed forces, so needed in this troubled world. The Commission worked on this law at its meeting on 23 November in the presence of Minister Antoni Macierewicz, Minister for National Defence. I think I'll start by giving you some information about the bill itself. I think this is necessary in view of the fact that I think that in many cases it may be unintentional, and in several cases it may also be intended. Disinformation. In this case, even the Ministry of National Defence issued a special announcement on 17 November. The fundamental objective of the act amending the law on the universal obligation to defend the Republic of Poland is to create a new self-contained type of Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland This law establishes the command of these troops, as well as creating a whole segment of management responsible for commanding a new type of armed forces. I don't want to get divorced, but the organizational work on the formation of the Territorial Defence Army has been going on since at least the beginning of this year. The calendar for the creation of new brigades or the creation at the beginning of the office for the creation of the Territorial Defence Army covers the spring and summer of this year. At this point, I would like to thank Dr. Grzegorz Kwasniak, the director of the office, who, together with Colonel Dębczak, put a lot of effort into making these organizational work very substantial, since the very beginning of the creation of this new type of armed forces, very active. There have been conferences, meetings in different environments, as well as an information process in this area, both in the legislative and organisational layer, contacts with different environments, including the professional soldier environment, and communication of information on these projects. Under the law, the Military Territorial Defence Command is directly subject to the Minister of National Defence. And here I make it clear that under the provisions of this law, he is not subject to the commander of general types of Armed Forces or the commander of operational types of Armed Forces. Ladies and gentlemen, there are many misunderstandings in this context. I would like to recall the constitutional provision of the article. 134, paragraph 2, where it is clear that during peace the President of the Republic exercises authority over the Armed Forces through the Minister of National Defence. I think, referring to this issue, that this is very important information. What are the main tasks of the Territorial Defence Forces? Above all, these are anti-crisis, anti-terrorist actions concerning the protection of the security of the civilian population. This is a very important part of the law relating to cooperation with the local environment, cooperation with the field administration, both state and local government. In this respect, the locality is important: soldiers who would voluntarily be called to the Territorial Defence Army... They grow out of those backgrounds where they were born, where they were educated, where they grew up, and now, by voluntary service in the Territorial Defence Forces, this local community wants to serve in a military uniform. Act in Art. Point 98 (k) 3 sets out precisely the conditions for candidates for service in the Territorial Defence Forces, but some priority, if we can say so, would be for service in the Territorial Defence Forces to have professional soldiers, members of pro-defence organisations, members of NGOs who set such goals, and graduates of upper secondary schools who implement innovative programmes, i.e., in short, representatives of so-called "pro-defence organisations." uniform classes. The service in the Territorial Defence Army will have two basic forms. The first will be rotational service and the second will be available. As far as rotational service is concerned, soldiers will participate at least once a month in a 2-day work-free training period. The second form includes some kind of crisis action, which... calls for service are carried out by the commander of the unit. Those volunteers who have not previously been active in military service and have not taken a military oath will begin their service in the Territorial Defence Forces, having previously completed 16 days of basic training; they will then take a military oath. I think it's important to say, because there's a lot of misinformation on this background... The overall training process of a soldier who was voluntarily included in the Territorial Defence Army is 3-year-old. So to say that these are the soldiers of the weekend, I think, is a far-reaching overinterpretation. It is also worth mentioning here that the Territorial Defence Army will be able to be incarnate soldiers with category D. I think that this is addressed primarily to those who have such a category and at the same time have the knowledge and skills necessary for the creation of such troops. Marines of the territorial military service are subject to professional opinion, as is the case in other types of armed forces. It is also worth noting that the law provides for the granting of a monthly allowance to the soldiers for their service, in connection with the rotating way in which they perform it or are available to them. The Act also defines the rights and obligations of employers employing soldiers serving in the Territorial Defence Forces. The Act also gives the opportunity to support in improving qualifications, through courses, traineeships, studies, soldiers of the Territorial Defence Army. It is also worth noting that the law makes changes by raising the upper limit of the age to which men are subject to military service from 50 to 55 years of age in the case of Petty Officers, and in the case of Officers' Degrees, from 60 to 63 years of age. For women From 50 to 55 years old when they are included in the military service. It is also worth noting the following fact, which is a novelty. Namely, the Act contains a change which introduces the possibility of belonging soldiers to associations operating outside the army. However, it is clear and powerful here that soldiers serving in the Polish Army cannot belong to any political party. I will quote the thought of Minister Antoni Macierewicz, addressed to the soldiers, to the officers. He said that the only party of the Polish Army soldier is the Republic of Poland. And that's, I think, the most important thing, the greatest concern. The law also regulates the issue of the collection of genetic material. To date, this issue has been governed by the order of the Minister for National Defence of 23 December 2010, but due to the reservations made by the Chief Data Protection Officer and the suggestion that this issue should be included in the statutory provisions, the law regulates this issue. During the committee's deliberations, the patron made four comments that we discussed during the committee's meeting. These comments addressed the following issues: to clarify the concept of a female soldier, the course of successive periods of service in the Territorial Defence Forces, the issue relating to the opinion of a service soldier of the Territorial Defence Forces, as well as the issue of the nomenclature relating to penalties provided for in the Criminal Code. These issues have been clarified by your director of the Legal Department at the Ministry of National Defence. However, technically... I will also say in this matter that Senator Jan Dobrzyński has submitted a proposal to adopt the bill without amendment. And the bill was... And this proposal, in order to accept it without amendments, was voted by the committee. But also Mr Senator, Mr Grubski, made a motion to reject the law, except for the applicant's vote, that request was not supported. As for the other issues raised during the committee's deliberations, I would also like to highlight the following issues raised by the senators. Senator Kraska asked what part of Poland would be the largest cluster, in the numerical sense, of soldiers of the Territorial Defence Army. The Minister's answer was yes. I think we all made her understand. It's in the northeast part. Senator Hare... This was not the conclusion, it was the presentation of an opinion from your own constituency, Mr. Senator has a district in the eastern part of our country and has declared a great kindness to the public, citizens from his constituency, in view of the formation of the Territorial Defence Army. Senator Mammytov and Marshal Bielan asked the Minister if there would be any information about the promotion of the Territorial Defence Army in the country. Yes, such action is prepared in the form of television spots, or the entire information segment related to conferences, meetings that will continue. By the way, on 21 November, after the law was passed by the Sejm, a very interesting conference on the Territorial Defence Army was held at the Academy of War Art. Military Territorial Defence of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland. It was like the main course of our committee's proceedings. And the main conclusion is to adopt this draft law without amendment. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u87	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. You're the first Senator Rybicki to come forward. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u88	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr President, I have a question of a political nature. The construction of the Polish chain of command is based on Natovian patterns. Poland is a member of NATO, a military-political structure, and this structure is governed by two fundamental principles: as far as military leadership is concerned, it is political in nature, but command is military in nature and it is military leadership. So I'm asking here about subpoenaing the Territorial Defence Army, because it kind of violates the rule that applies to NATO. Isn't building an independent type of armed force really an attempt to build an alternative army alongside an existing professional army? And how does that apply to those rules that apply to NATO?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u89	Mr. Senator, in fact, this is a matter, as you yourself have observed, of a political nature. I quoted the constitutional record for a reason, where there was a clear mention of subordinates... The Constitution speaks even more about time, but in relation to the discussion that took place at the committee meeting... I think it's a misplaced charge. What does not change the fact that there is awareness that in Polish conditions it is necessary to improve the way of directing the Polish Armed Forces, which is the result of failure That's how I'd put it. The last 8 years have been managed by the Ministry of National Defence and the resulting political issues.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u90	Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u91	Thank you very much. Dear Senator, rapporteur, is it in the task of the Territorial Defence Army to use this formation against Polish citizens as well? I am asking this question because such an amendment was tabled during the parliamentary work and she did not find recognition. Did you discuss this at the committee meeting? What were the arguments against adding such a record that the said troops could not be used against Polish citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u92	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u93	Thank you very much. Senator, I'm referring you to the bill, and I'm asking you to read it carefully. Nowhere in any place is such a purpose and such tasks of the Territorial Defence Army entered. Moreover, the Ministry of National Defence issued a special announcement on this issue. What we are talking about here is a kind of socio-technical procedure to introduce some concerns about the issue under discussion. I attended, ladies and gentlemen. I will allow myself to have some digression at a conference prepared by the local university, so it happened that from my city, by the University of Business and Entrepreneurship, where a doctor from the University of Gdańsk presented such a classic manipulation by one of the major television stations on which the European Commission recently issued a communication. This movie. Because the movie is, you can say, 2-elemental. The image represents the operation in the local environment of the Territorial Defence Army section, and in the content layer, in the verbal layer there is a bunch of statements highly respected Members of the opposition, usually total opposition. And this 2-minute video is a classic example of disinformation. I will not quote, ladies and gentlemen, these statements, because you probably know the statements of your fellow MPs... [[But we also know the words of the PiS.]] Probably. It's not like we're gonna find out around here. [[We also know language manipulation...]] ...but I want to draw attention... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] ...to one very fundamental element, which is, you can say, the essence of this case. The use of inappropriate, I would say, non-essential language in relation to this problem does a lot of damage to the Territorial Defence Forces. Senator, I'm quite simply saying that the territorial defence forces cannot be used for these purposes. [[The voice from the room: Well, that's the point.]] [[Yeah, that's the thing, that's the answer. But tell me why we can't put it in the bill.]] [[Yeah, that's right.]] Because there's no need. There are no such tasks and objectives in the designated activities of the Territorial Defence Forces. [[But the army also shot in Poland.]] The territorial defence forces are to provide assistance in crisis situations for the local community, to support public administration, both government and local government. [[In order, too.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u94	Thank you very much. Senator Slugocki, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u95	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator rapporteur, I have a question about the period of preparation of the military's territorial defence troops. Because Minister Macierewicz has for a long time been announcing the formation of these troops, but the legal act is about 14 days of training. [[16 days.]] I'm so sorry about the 16-day basic training. Do you think that 16-day training will allow you to prepare such elite troops of the Territorial Defence Army, since in other types of armed forces such training is considerably longer and lasts up to 4 months? Isn't this too short a time to prepare these valuable people to carry out the duties imposed by the law? Perhaps you discussed this at the committee meeting. Thank you very much. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u96	Quiet, please. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u97	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! There was a discussion on this issue, but I think those volunteers who will be included in the Territorial Defence Army will certainly be valuable soldiers. People will come to this service, who will be properly verified in advance. Some whose health, knowledge and skills will allow them to be included in the Territorial Defence Army. And besides, like I said, 16-day training is basic training. The training process will continue throughout the service period in the Territorial Defence Forces, and this will certainly be sufficient time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u98	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u99	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator rapporteur, I therefore have another question: is there any timetable for improving the skills and usefulness of volunteers serving in WOTs? If you say so, Senator. In addition, according to the provisions of the Act That this first basic training will take place within 16 days, I would like to know what the program will look like for the progressive improvement of the competences of WOT soldiers. Do you have a plan? Did you talk about it? Did the Minister give you this idea? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u100	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Very good question, but not to me. It would be best if the leadership, the leadership, were to speak in this regard, because as a senator, all I do is make sure, so to speak, that I take care of the legislation.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u101	Thank you very much. Senator Florek, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u102	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator, let me ask you a basic question: did you discuss at the committee's meeting what is the purpose of creating this new independent type of Polish Armed Forces, the Territorial Defence Forces? The commander's duties are written down here, but I ask specifically: what is the purpose of this? Because today, in the 20th century, a professional army is a well-equipped, specialized army, composed of well-prepared soldiers and with certain alliances. And this is an army that also costs money. And what is the purpose of creating the Territorial Defence Army? For example, I will say that the Crisis Management Act is in force both in voivodships, and in powiats, and in municipalities. I myself was the chairman of this team, which includes e.g. Chief of I.A., which means... [[...the Voivodship Military Staff.]] ...the Voivodship Military Staff. The army you've been talking about in all sorts of situations. In the case of cataclysms, etc. It was given without any problem, and therefore I do not know what these tasks are. They can, of course, be multiplied here and said that in different situations these troops will be needed, but I am asking what is the purpose of creating the Territorial Defence Army. And I would like an answer to that question, and if I don't get it, I'll ask the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u103	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u104	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! In one opinion, I could answer that question. The main objective of establishing the Territorial Defence Army as a new type of Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland is to improve the state's state of security. And that's the basic goal that needs to be... And this is where I'm sending the senator to... [[Army?]] ...art. 12, paragraph 2, where the objectives of the Territorial Defence Forces are to be determined. They focus primarily on support for local communities in times of crisis, as well as cooperation with operational forces. It's not here, so to speak, to enter into tasks that have operational troops. The territorial defense forces will have their place and tasks.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u105	Thank you very much. Senator Blackbay, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u106	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I have a brief question about, let's call it, life situations. As a long-term self-government officer, I know that there are many different crisis situations. Tell me, how's your experience... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I could ask you to keep your voice down... Could I ask the senator to give some examples of specific crisis situations, not so much described in detail, but such life situations where the territorial forces of the country could be used? Okay, Mr. Senator? That's one question. And second question. Who's gonna be in charge of the crisis in the situations you're gonna mention? After all, you know that during a crisis action someone must be in charge, there must be a few in command. Is it going to be the head of the Territorial Defence Army or is it going to be a fire department representative who usually proves this kind of action in a small region? I say I say a little crisis action. You said here, among other things. That's why we're calling these troops. So that if I could ask for examples of life... [[So practical.]] Yes. Not in the bill, but in practice. How do you see it? [[You're welcome.]] Excuse me... As they tell me here, you also have local experience. As one important person in Poland once said: let's talk like a self-governmentman with a self-governmentman. [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u107	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u108	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Whoever's in charge of this operation, as you said yourself, is clearly defined. Under these circumstances, the territorial defence forces will have the task of supporting local governments, administrations in times of crisis, e.g. In the middle of a flood. This is the first case on the shore that comes to my mind as an example. Let us note, Ladies and gentlemen, that the Territorial Defence Army is a service. There's an order. There is an action that must be closely linked to it. As part of operations at company level, battalion or brigade level, the relevant commander will decide on the extent and manner of crisis support, e.g. during the flood. [[Mr. Marshal, can I still do that?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u109	Yeah, yeah. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u110	I understand that if this crisis is about the commune, where the mayor, the mayor, or... [[Voice from the hall: It's more of a county.]] No, no, let's take an example of the commune. Let's say the head of the guard takes over operational command in a crisis situation, and calls the Territorial Defense Army. According to your orders, as the senator says, this unit of the Army of Territorial Defence appears, their commander comes in and submits to the fire chief. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u111	I'm not gonna give you a substantive answer to that question because it concerns a specific event. [[What's the general rule?]] [[What do you mean...]] Yes, sir. [[And that's the question of life, can you answer it?]] Every question. [[Mr. Marshal, why don't you...]] [[Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry, but...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u112	Gentlemen, I'm sorry, but... [[This is the draftsman of the committee. There were representatives of the Civic Platform at the meeting, but they didn't ask. In what mode?]] I didn't give you the floor. [[But we're not members of the National Defence Committee and we want to know if...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[We have a right to ask.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. [[But I'd like to ask.]] Mr. Senator Klein, I haven't given you the floor either. Ladies and gentlemen, I have adopted such a principle that when I am conducting deliberations and someone wants to ask a question or has something to say, I am giving him the floor as if automatically But only to this person, not the whole room. [[I just...]] You're welcome, Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u113	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I refer to what the senator said in the report.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u114	Mr. Senator, I propose that this question be redirected to a representative of the government, a representative of the Ministry. [[Yeah, that's why I wanted to say...]] I'll say it again, again. [[Okay, that's what I was gonna offer.]] The committee's report shall be the report of the committee's meeting. If this matter was not discussed at the committee meeting, please don't blame the rapporteur for not knowing something. [[But he has to say that it wasn't meant to be.]] [[Mr. Marshal, one sentence.]] Well, I told you that. [[Thank you so much for the hint.]] [[Mr. Marshal, one sentence. May I?]] [[And I encourage you to attend committee meetings.]] [[But we're not members of the National Defence Committee.]] [[But you can come.]] [[You can always find out.]] [[Yeah, you can.]] Senator Blackbay. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u115	I would like to say once again, Senator, that I have asked this question in relation to your statement. You said that the Territorial Defence Army would be used in certain situations resulting from random events in individual units of local government. And that's all I'm talking about. I wasn't at the committee meeting because I'm not a member of it. Mr. Marshal, thank you for reading my mind, because that's what I wanted to propose. I'll ask the Ministry's representative the same question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u116	Good. The next question will be asked by Senator Fedorovich. Wake up! [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u117	Mr. Marshal! Mr Senator, rapporteur! First of all, let me disagree with your answer to Senator Zdrojewska's question about this record, which is not here. The statement that these troops cannot be used against citizens. This record we're seeing here is pretty dangerous. Namely, he says that they can be used as part of some public administration assistance. Well, let's imagine there's a major demonstration, for example. in the mine. We've seen demonstrations like this a lot of times, because we've been shown a lot of times. But it should be established, it should be written here. I think so. If you'd care to comment on that in response, I'd be very grateful. But I also have a second question. It concerns my constituents who would like to sign up for this Territorial Defense. Mostly they are the failed actors who perform in these reconstructions of battles. [[We don't accept the imbecile.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] What kind of money are they gonna get? What kind of pay will they have? Are they gonna... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm a successful actor. Look in the encyclopedia. Well, my question is whether or not they're gonna be conjured. 'Cause these boys don't know if they can bring women around, or if it's gonna be such a normal army. Because if I used to serve the army for communes, we got an onuce and wooden rifles. [[Mr. Marshal, what is this?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u118	Mr. Senator, I encourage you to ask serious questions. With all my sympathy for you, Mr. Senator, I have lifted this question as unworthy of this House. [[The first part was very serious.]] Please respond, Senator, to the first part.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u119	I have nothing to add. [[Beautiful.]] [[To the first part?]] [[One o'clock?]] One o'clock. And as for the other, I'd like to forget that she died in the Senate of the Republic of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u120	Excuse me, that question I asked was perhaps a lighter form, but it was a very serious question. And what I'm saying is that I can document that I'm being approached by young people, students who are playing in these battles at Grunwald and other reconstructions, and they're really interested. And they ask whether they get paid or not. I want to know, too, because I wasn't at the committee meeting, so I'm asking you to answer that question. Come on, sorry. [[Not about that, Mr. Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u121	We all agreed that you asked the senator a question about the form and content, let's call it a joke, and that's a very gracious assessment. And if you ask about wages, this is, of course, a valid question. You're welcome, Senator, to answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u122	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I'd like you to be aware when you ask me that you're not in the theater, you're in the Senate of the Republic of Poland. That's one thing. Secondly, I spoke in the report, describing the content of the bill, that the law regulates this matter. A soldier who will serve in territorial defence will receive a monthly allowance for the basic salary of the service rendered, as well as an allowance for being available.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u123	Mr. Senator, I assure you that this amount is in the report.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u124	Excuse me, but I must refer to the senator's words, which are very unfair and hurtful to me. Well, the theater, Mr. Senator, is a very serious institution and it's sometimes worth reading Sophocles or Shakespeare. And even if I allow myself to introduce some kind of lighter language to the Senate Even if you don't know how, even though we've known each other for so many years and you know how I work... but in the middle of my speech there is a very serious content. Okay? And please don't use... Because I don't even know who you are by profession so he can answer you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u125	Let's not continue this thread, let's get back to the point. Senator Komarnicki. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u126	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator rapporteur, the bill in this form will create an almost distinct military existence. It must be said that this entity will be created for PLN 1.5 billion a year. It's a huge sum. And we will have a territorial defense that is not formally subject to the General Commander for peacetime and an operational commander for wartime. Why isn't territorial defence, Senator rapporteur, subject to the general commander and the minister like the military? I read in the bill that the operational commander or the defense commander may consent to the movement of these troops, but I think that these intermediate solutions are unnecessary, because if they were subjected, as should be the case... And second question, Mr. Senator. According to the Act, the priority of joining the Territorial Defence Army is the so-called. shooting units, but some of them, e.g. Shooting unit from Krakow No. 2039... Note: It consists of members of the Falanga and activists of the Pro-Russian Amendment Party. Is that true? If you don't answer me, Mr. Marshal, I will address this question to the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u127	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, maybe I'll start by answering the second question. I'm sure the Minister will be more specific, but there is no such thing as a collective admission to the Territorial Defence Army. It will be the individual decision of each candidate to join the Territorial Defence Army. About the first... This is a proposal we propose to the High House and we think it is absolutely right to give equal subjection to all three types of... the three commanders of the Minister of National Defence who carry out his duties on an ongoing basis. And the commander of the Armed Forces is the President of the Republic of Poland. That's the constitution's record, and nothing's been injured.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u129	Thank you. Senator Slugocki. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator rapporteur, I have a question about finance. Did the assessment of this regulation include any specific amount Is it still this year or is it the future of the need to maintain support? It's about the costs of those trainings I asked for earlier for the Territorial Defense Army. Did you talk about it? Have the financial implications of the regulation been taken into account? What is the budget, if any, this year or next year? That's the first question. And the other, Mr. Senator... That's what's bothering me, I'm talking about the draft regulation of the Minister of National Defence. There is a catalogue of persons who, in order to join the Territorial Defence Army, must present originals or copies of the certificate of completion I quote: High school, upper secondary school or graduate degree. The Seym has just changed the education system, we don't have middle school anymore. Of course, we'll still be working on it... As I understand it, this draft regulation will be amended immediately and the primary school will be entered. Do I interpret this problem well and, as a matter of fact, I notice this problem ahead of time? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u131	You're welcome. I'm just informing you that there are 12 people enrolled to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u132	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, about the first question... This issue was the subject of question at the committee meeting. The Minister's response was as follows: by 2019, when the recruitment and formation of all brigades in the country to be 17, in each voivodeship one, except for the Mazowieckie voivodeship, where there will be two brigades, for this purpose, to equip and arm soldiers and the Territorial Defence Forces, is expected to spend PLN 3 billion, 600 million, and this amount will not reduce the expenditure spent on operational troops. As far as this second issue is concerned, of course, the project that the Sejm is currently proceding in relation to Polish education must take into account the current state of law... Soldier in the private corps should have, so to speak, the most... education, well, currently middle school, and in the future 8th grade completed in the Petty Officer's Corps A completed high school, and in the officer's corps, a higher school.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u133	Thank you very much. Senator Ambrosik, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u134	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr President, are there any restrictions on the possibility of joining the Territorial Defence Army by people who, alongside Polish citizenship, have citizenship of another country?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u135	Thank you very much. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u136	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, the bill provides for the catalog... Of course citizenship is a key issue, education, knowledge, health These are the basic issues, the non-punishment, these kind of sharpenings.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u137	Senator Libicki, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u138	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, a turbulent discussion raises the question of subjugating the Territorial Defence Army directly to the Minister of Defence. I'd like to ask you a little bit about that. Namely, more and more voices are heard about reform of the command system, that such reform of the command system will be carried out. In this connection, I would like to ask whether this submission of the Territorial Defence Army to the Minister of Defence is a temporary solution, and after the reform of the command system of the Territorial Defence Army, they will be in command, in this new system, or after the reform of the chain of command, they will continue to be directly subject to the Minister of Defence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u139	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator, following the advisory vote of Senator Czarnobaj, who is not present at the moment, I will answer in such a way that the issue of changing the rules, of course the statutory management of the Polish Armed Forces, is about the interest of the Ministry of National Defence, as well as the command of the army, and in due time it will be presented in such a way as to improve this formula. Then we'll talk about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u141	Thank you very much. Maybe I'll read the names of four more people who came forward to ask questions: Marshal Shark, Senator Wcisła, Senator Dowhan and Senator Rybicki. [[Senator Dowhan resigns.]] Good. [[Mr. Marshal, what about me? That's the second time.]] I read in the order in which I write it, and now fourteen people are written. Right now, you're Marshal Shark. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u142	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Before I ask the senator the rapporteur a question, however, I would like to ask for an answer to the earlier question. I'll go back to the question that Senator Zdrojewska asked you. It's important, and it's probably best not to question the way you ask questions. It is particularly important in the case of this law. Well, look at the art. 3 point 2a, which provides that the Armed Forces carry out constitutional tasks in the protection of the independence of the State, the indivisibility of its territory and the security and integrity of its borders, have the right to apply direct coercion measures, the use of weapons and other weapons, taking into account the necessity, etc., etc., in order to carry out those tasks in a manner appropriate to the threat and within the limits of the rules laid down by the binding Republic of Poland, in ratified international agreements and international customary law. [[Your marshal slept through...]] That's what I'm gonna ask. Is the anti-crisis task of the Territorial Defence Forces, among others. the tasks set out in this article mean using this formation only during the war and crisis, or at another time? Let me get this straight. I'm sure you'll be offended, lifted up, and yelled at me. [[But, Senator...]] ...but I'm used to it. [[Who would dare?]] Well, I'm old enough to remember certain things. Terrible anniversaries are coming up in our history, December 16th and 17th, when the army shot at the workers. And there's another change coming after you, maybe much worse. I have a right to fear it, remembering the story. The point is to make records so that no authority has the right to interpret it in its own way and that history doesn't become a reason for someone to... [[Voice from the hall:...that the Polish soldier will stand...]] So that it is not that a Polish soldier can again stand up against a Polish citizen. I'm not talking about December 13th, because at the time martial law was introduced, but there were dates in our history. And don't mock us, mock us, and don't talk about total opposition, because our words come solely from concern for our future. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u143	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u144	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Senator! I would never allow myself, not because I am a senator, but because I am a cultural, well-educated man, to raise my voice, scream or direct any insults towards the state or the senator. I'm just trying to make you aware of the importance of this change that is being made. Her main goal, I will repeat it again, is to improve the security of the Polish state. And as for the scope that the senator was asking about. I will refer here to what I said earlier, nowhere, in any place in the law such issues are raised, so there is no danger. Let me read in full the communication issued specifically on this matter by the Ministry of National Defence on 17 November: 'In connection with the false information distributed by some of the media that OT soldiers would fight social unrest', this is a quote of these media The military OTs were particularly subordinate to the Minister of National Defence, I inform you that, in accordance with the proposed amendment to the Act on the Universal Defence Obligation under which the Territorial Defence Forces will be set up, these tasks will under no circumstances be assigned to the OTs. [[What else is there to say?]] All about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u145	Mr. Senator, just a word. Wouldn't that be included in the article? Three in point 2a? Can't you just put it in such a way that it never occurred to anyone, whether it was in the far future or... Thank you very much. [[It's not...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u146	You're welcome. [[If it's not there, someone can give the order, that's the truth.]] [[The martial law was also included in the constitution, unfortunately.]] [[Dear Senator, martial law...]] Excuse me... [[...was introduced against the law of the Polish People's Republic. So if anyone wants to...]] Ladies and gentlemen, excuse me. [[...use the army, it'll use it, even if there's records...]] [[Which means he'll be used...]] We're in the middle of a discussion, but she's in a different form. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u147	Mr. Marshal, I don't want to comment... Ladies and gentlemen, you have, so to speak, such a guiding thought as to pursue this matter. I said what I said. Not in the bill, not in this message... The message is clear. It's a short story. That's it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u148	Thank you very much. Senator Wczyła, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u149	Senator, the formation of the Territorial Defence Army provokes, as the case of Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz has shown, a bit to jokes or to worry. And I don't know whether to treat this question as a joke provocation or a fear. But the preference to become a soldier of the Territorial Defense Army... It says in preference that members of pro-defense NGOs... I don't know exactly what a pro-defense self-government organization is, but a reconstructive group... As I look at the different preferences that will make it easier to become a territorial defence soldier, I see that there are the same assumptions as for many reconstructive groups. They care about their abilities, their ability to use weapons. Are reconstructive groups I'm asking you quite seriously now. Can they count on their members to benefit from these preferences when it comes to creating a Territorial Defence Army? Second question. The territorial defence forces are to cooperate with the Polish Armed Forces. It is known that the Armed Forces have their tasks, which are related to the defence of Polish borders, mainly eastern borders and eastern flanks. Will the location of the territorial defence troops correlate with the location of the barracks of the armed forces, or will there be more territorial defence troops on the eastern flank than in another area of the country? 'Cause that's the kind of plan you've been talking about, like, locations. in Mazowsze. And a third question, if you don't mind. There have already been such statements that aeroclubs, which also perform certain functions, will somehow be included in the development plans of these troops. What's it like? Are there plans? Are aeroclubs taken into account when it comes to the use by the Territorial Defence Forces? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u150	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u151	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, as to preferences, I answer again: these preferences apply to each individual volunteer. There's no... The decision will be individual, following the voluntary application of a candidate who is a member of a non-governmental organisation which is pro-defense. The pro-defence organisation is an organisation which has a signed cooperation agreement with the Ministry of National Defence and meets the statutory requirements for cooperation. Each time it will be an individual decision to include this volunteer in the service of the Oborna Territorial Army. It's a matter of location. Grounds for building the structure of the Territorial Defence Army... In the county it is a company, in the voivodship The brigade, and yet battalions will be formed in the voivodship, which will focus companies from powiats on a specific area for training purposes. I'm going to repeat what appears to be due to a certain regularity. If you look at the current deployment of operational forces in the country, you will see that it is precisely the concentration of the Territorial Defence Army in voivodships in the eastern part of the country, and especially, as Minister Antoni Macierewicz, in this part of the north-eastern country, said during the committee meeting, that the aim is to support operational troops and improve the security of the Polish state. As far as aeroclubs are concerned, it's a detailed matter. I don't want to... I have participated in many conferences, these issues have been addressed there, but this is a matter to which they should refer, so to speak, the contractor of the bill, the Minister, and here I would refer to his answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u152	Thank you very much. Senator Grubski. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u153	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Dear rapporteur, we are today in the market for demand for I'll say it like that. Good material for the services we have competition. We have a police force that drains the market, we have a fire department that drains the market, we have different kinds of services. Each year, several tens of thousands of people are checked in health and physical terms. In what direction does the record allow for the use of category D in the Territorial Defence Forces? In Peerel, people with category D ridiculously were considered individuals to... something. It's physically disabled, it's disabled at all. Today, in my opinion, these people will be disabled in three ways: they will be disabled for some reason healthily, they may be physically disabled, they may have worse physical condition, but they will also be legally impaired, because the Act provides for a situation in which after 3 years of service in the Territorial Defence Forces one can aspire to the professional army. They won't be able to do it because an army of professional people with this category doesn't consider it. How does the senator feel about this situation? Is that a good record in the bill?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u154	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u155	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Of course, this is rather a subject for private conversation, because we did not talk about it during the debate at the committee meeting. But if you were to carefully trace the materials that are related to the preparation of this law, you would need to have such knowledge that in Poland in various organizations, which I will put it so widely. They promote the idea of pro-defense, there are about 600 thousand people. This is actually what we were talking about, what is the range of interests, what environments there might be interest in. So these are pro-defense organizations, voluntary firefighters, hunters' associations, railroad security, forest guards. This environment, in which there are such predispositions, is very broad, which does not change the fact that selection will be quite insightful. When I spoke to the candidates who started an officer's course in September this year at the Higher School of the Armed Forces in Wroclaw... Believe me, the selection of those 150 places that were prepared for this purpose was, I would say, very strict. In turn, the law actually provides that there will be soldiers in the Territorial Defence Forces who have the so-called. Category D. [[To category D...]] I don't want to humiliate anyone here, but... even in category D, there may be outstanding IT specialists, outstanding specialists in some field who can find their place in the Territorial Defence Forces, which doesn't change the fact that such service means some effort.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u156	Thank you very much. Senator Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u157	Thank you. Senator rapporteur, I am returning to NATO standards and solutions that NATO Member States are applying to the management of armed forces. In which NATO member state In addition to the United States, which is difficult to compare to Poland, territorial defence was introduced as a separate type of armed forces? I know that Finland and Switzerland have similar solutions in Europe, but I am talking about NATO Member States. What NATO Member State has introduced a similar solution to this law that we are discussing today?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u158	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u159	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, this was not the subject of the committee's deliberations. In turn knowledge, information is drawn, comes from various very interesting experiences. You mentioned the United States, you mentioned Switzerland, the Scandinavian countries. Very interesting experiences, I think, were given to us at the meeting last year by representatives from the national defence committee of Estonia and the United Kingdom. I think that the focus of these experiences and the creation of the Territorial Defence Army in a new dimension, the dimension of the 21st century, as a new type of armed force, can only strengthen the Polish army and Polish security.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u160	Marshal Borusewicz, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u161	Senator rapporteur, please tell me... Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, Tell me why he's changing his art. 65 of the current law, which loosens and basically eliminates restrictions on the membership of active military service soldiers to associations and other organisations operating outside the military. To date, such a situation could only occur with the permission of the superior of the powers of at least the commander of the regiment, and this change makes it sufficient to inform and act in such an organization, association or association. What is the cause of this? That's one thing. And secondly, whether it will include not only the territorial defense soldiers, but all the soldiers, including the military.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u162	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u163	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal, this provision really loosens the limits on the possibility of belonging to associations, but clearly does not allow party membership. That's what this record looks like. There was no wider discussion on this subject.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u164	There was no discussion. I understand that you are unable to answer the question about this matter. And tell me, I have one more question. What does it mean to counter the State's security threat if this is necessary for the performance of the Armed Forces' tasks and the role of the Territorial Defence Forces in this regard? I would like to point out that this is not the implementation of crisis management tasks, because this task is provided for in a separate point. What's in the article? 60 (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u165	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u166	Mr. Marshal, this question has an executive scope. I'm sending this question to the Minister. [[I'd like to point out that this is a question...]] It wasn't an object either... [[I see. It has a fundamental scope as regards this law. It's not an executive rule. Okay, I'm gonna ask the minister that question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u167	Thank you very much. Senator Boris-Damięcka, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u168	Thank you very much. Since this law is subject to or is to direct the Territorial Defence Army to the Minister of National Defence, it is equally possible to presume that the Minister of Defence in his temperament may also wish to command the forces he has. Did you ever consider that if you chose this option and allowed it to do so in 1995... Can you first of all consider Minister Macierewicz as a professional commander with the right internship? And what degree does Minister Macierewicz have? 'Cause it doesn't really matter to this kind of armed force whether they're under the command of a corporal, a lieutenant, a scrambler or a multi-star general. Thank you. [[That's funny.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u169	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u170	Mr. Marshal! Senator! Again, just to be sure. Art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the application of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No I have nothing more to add. [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: But I apologize. May I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u171	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u172	But at the same time, we have a 1995 record saying that by giving up the power to drive that the Minister of National Defence has been granted... that he may resign from the office of Minister of National Defence and be a commander.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u173	Can you relate to that, Senator? [[Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka: If the senator is unable to fully answer my question, I would ask you to return this question... to the representative of the Ministry of National Defence.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u174	I have nothing to add, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u175	Okay, that, Senator, is a question you ask... [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: You have not answered some of my questions. What degree do you have, Minister Macierewicz? That's not what you're capable of...]] I'm sorry, but that's not the point... [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka:...meetings of the committee.]] ...this bill. [[No, it's a subject because...]] [[Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka: But he is associated with the function of Minister of National Defence and with the fact that he is becoming a direct supervisor of such large, multi-thousandths of territorial defence forces. I think Minister Macierewicz used to do some military service and have a degree.]] [[He's a general. So?]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u176	Mr. Marshal! Senator! [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: Maybe this is a military secret.]] I don't want to be mean and talk about human temperaments, but the constitutional record is very clear. I wouldn't bring all this up to that kind of question. The creation of a new type of armed forces, I say again, referring to the surrounding reality, is a very important challenge, the aim of which is concern for the security of the Polish state.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u177	Excuse me. My question is also important... [[But what is it?]] [[...he's a lieutenant because he graduated from college.]] [[Quiet, please. The senator has the right to ask a question.]] [[And I have the right to answer as I can answer.]] In this situation, I ask that this question be redirected to the representative of the Ministry of National Defence. I hope...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u178	Okay, Senator. In a moment, you will be able to ask questions to a government representative. I understand it wasn't about the committee meeting. Senator Florek, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u179	Thank you. Mr. Senator, what is the purpose of creating the Territorial Defence Army? You said that improving the security of the Polish state. Well, that's great. But it's a very broad concept. We can probably put everything in here. [[Very specific, that's what I'd call it.]] Yes, improving the security of the Polish state. Then you mentioned random events. It could be a flood, an earthquake, or some other cataclysm. I love you, sir. I told you that in situations like this, we don't need a separate type of armed force. We have a crisis management bill, we have a government crisis management center, voivodship and municipal centers. Cooperation in this area has so far been well organised. There are police representatives, appropriate commandants, mostly voivodships, and representatives of the State Fire Department. I think they've dealt with all this without a problem. You might even think about improving this system. My question will be as follows. What will be the equipment of a territorial defence soldier after 16 days of training? Is he gonna have a gun? I'm asking because 16 days of training is really very little time. How will he be equipped? Will he have a uniform and a rifle? It's gonna be 50,000 people, and we're gonna equip them somehow. And yet there is talk of rotating service and dispatch service. Will there be any differences in equipment, or will the fact that you will be on duty or in rotation be of the slightest importance? It'll only be 16 days of training. Therefore, the question of what such a soldier will be equipped with is, in my opinion, very important, important. Was there a committee meeting on this subject? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u180	Thank you very much. Quiet, please. Please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u181	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! This was mentioned at the committee meeting I even referred to it myself. In the context of spending these 3 billion PLN 600 million. It's about equipment and arming a soldier of the Territorial Defense Army. The Polish arms industry is able to equip such a soldier on a good level. The details of this equipment were not mentioned, because at this stage it should not be.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u182	Thank you very much. Senator Gawel, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u183	Senator, this is about using territorial defence units in crisis situations, natural disasters, etc. I'll follow Senator Flork here. What will be the effectiveness of these branches when it comes to restoring order, e.g. in areas of natural disaster where in theory acts of vandalism, theft, robbery, etc. may occur.? That's the first question. The second concerns the storage of weapons. Is there any idea of how it will be stored and secured during this period?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u184	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u185	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! We didn't talk about it in detail. As for its use, all I have to say is what we talked about at the committee meeting. As far as weapons storage is concerned, it's a matter of fact, I'll be honest with you, executive. This is in the area of consultation and discussion. I know what the situation is like right now, but that's a question for the Minister and I would ask that the senator be polite to ask him that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u186	Senator Dobrzyński. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u187	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. We just talked a little bit at the committee meeting, Senator, about the costs, but I'd like to hear your opinion. Don't you think that the amount of PLN 3 billion is too low for such a serious and large segment of national defence as the Territorial Defence Army? Shouldn't this amount be increased? [[You're welcome...]] I'd like to add, Mr. Marshal... [[Yes, please.]] I would like to remind those who often mistake... or are not aware that the entire Polish Army is subordinate to the Minister of National Defence. Of course, in various configurations, but the Minister of National Defence is also the head of Polish troops. Besides, of course. Mr. Senator brought it up. There is a provision in the Constitution according to which their superior is the President of the Republic. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u188	Thank you very much. Senator, please be quiet. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u189	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! When it comes to spending on equipment, maintenance and weapons... There was information from the Minister and therefore this amount of PLN 3 billion 600 million over the coming years until 2019. Of course, everything depends on the state of the budget, but it is enough to organize, equip and arm soldiers without prejudice to the spending of the remaining amounts for the weapons of the operational forces. Of course, there was also a discussion at the committee meeting, among others. Mr. Senator is one of the senators' representatives. I also make such a request and intercede for it. . who proposed to consider an increase in the amount of 2% in the future GDP for modernising or placing funds in the maintenance of the Polish army... I think we will soon have such a discussion. Today I will say this information from Brussels The European Commission has welcomed the allocation of EUR 500 million to R &amp; D for the arms industry in Europe. I think this is also the source from which the Polish government will be able to benefit in the future.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u190	Thank you very much. Senator Grubski, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u191	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. At the committee meeting, I asked about putting gunfire on the country, because it is known that these 16 days of training during the year and then the issue of rotation... once a month, this shooting must take place somewhere. The Minister then replied that progress had been made in terms of changing the number of shooters. Do we have any information on how many shooters have recently been renovated, whether they've been recreated when it comes to old shooters?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u192	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u193	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Indeed, during the committee meeting, there was a vote on the state of the shooting range. The Minister replied that there has been some effort recently from the Ministry and that the playback of shooting galleries is supported at all. I think this is a specific question that the Minister can answer more extensively. But there is the thought of supporting such initiatives at the level of powiats or such administrative organisms.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u194	Thank you very much. Senator Jackowski, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u195	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have two questions, Senator. One: how will it be with those days off for those soldiers who are employed somewhere? Because I understand that the training cycles and classes will be in the weekend system. But there are people who work weekends. So how are they going to look on the formal side? Is there gonna be a release, or is there gonna be an equivalent? I'm asking you to decide the answer to that question. And my second question. Don't you think that some of the questions that are being asked... Whether your assessment is about increasing the level of state security or on the contrary In fact, by disappointing the territorial defence solution, it leads to a weakening of the defence capabilities of the Polish state? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u196	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u197	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, as to the first question, it is indeed the bill that provides for the preparation of the calendar of the annual rotation service for... well, then not the candidate, but the soldier of the Territorial Defence Army, in agreement with the commander of the unit and with the employer. So much for the first question. As for the second question, I would like to thank the senators already at this point for the fact that the level of discussion in the Senate is much higher than in the Sejm. I watched the session in the Sejm when there was a reading of the project, and Minister Grabski was there at the time, and you were a colonel, and I remember that the level of contention of the discussion was very low. I was pleased, Ladies and gentlemen, that one of the great English-speaking stations did not present Although her so to speak, the native language is different The spots from this discussion, because it would certainly not serve the security of the Polish state.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u198	Senator Augustine. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u199	Mr. Senator, I'm a little concerned about security, and I think that this movement here is questionable. ♪ 'Cause here we are ♪ The committee's meeting was probably about this. That they are to be soldiers who will be well equipped, also with state-of-the-art weapons. Well, I'm having second thoughts about whether this weapon in the barracks, but also when moving, it won't go into the wrong hands, whether it's going into the hands of those who are mentally disturbed and who aren't sufficiently verified. I read these recipes here. On page 12, yes, it is said that these candidates for service, these military territorial defence forces are to be verified, but in terms of psychological only if they are called to serve in positions requiring special psychophysical predispositions and otherwise not. Well, every one of us who's been through this selection before determining the ability to serve knows that it absolutely doesn't guarantee the selection of unbalanced people. So I'm... a professional army has tools to that extent. But here, it seems, this gate is wide open. Did you talk about this, and did you think that the current safeguards were sufficient? Because I would like to say that today only a few hundred people have access to firearms outside the barracks. Yeah, a couple hundred people. Of the 215,000 guns, most of them are hunting weapons, and there's some sports weapons, and this fighting stuff is trace amounts. So if we're gonna put that gun in people's hands, do you think that kind of record, that kind of security is really enough? After all, we keep reading about the misfortunes that concern unstable policemen with guns, unbalanced military men with guns... And now 53,000 people with firearms are about to arrive.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u200	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u201	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I fully understand your preamble to this question, but once again I will say that any soldier who will carry out his duties or be engaged in voluntary military service within the Territorial Defence Army will be judged individually, individually will be evaluated for his acceptance. [[But on the basis of the regulations, Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u202	Well, well, well.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u203	I'm sorry, but it's by the book. I'm referring to the rules. [[Nothing else. Nothing else.]] Have you considered this subject? Are these provisions sufficient to ensure that, as a result of this individual assessment, people who are mentally unstable do not receive weapons?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u204	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u205	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, I have nothing else to add in this matter.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u206	Mr. Senator, such a digression. I think a lot of hunting weapons have parameters that are very close to combat, and I'm thinking artisans. [[And sometimes it's even more precise.]] Exactly. Senator Zdrojewska. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u207	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask you about a case like this. Law and Justice, the current government e.g. lowers retirement age, we'll be working on it soon. Meanwhile, here's the record, I've pointed out to him about raising the age of military duty from 50 to 55 years old, in the case of petty officers from 60 to 66 years old, and in the case of women from 50 to 55 years old. So here's the philosophy of thinking, I get the feeling, it's a little different. If the senator would be so kind... I would ask you to explain what the reason for such changes is. That's one thing. And my second question. We've been able to watch on TV lately, especially in public, pictures showing recruitment for these formations, some exercises, some running on the ground, people standing in queues. Tell me on what basis this was happening, because we haven't passed the bill yet, we're just working on it. My third question concerns the budget for these activities. What kind of money are these activities described by public media paid for? Where will it be in the budget for this year, and where is it written? I would appreciate it if you would answer these questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u208	Senator, I understand the question about the budget, because you are asking the rapporteur's questions about the report of the committee meeting, and the fact that you are asking for an opinion on the TV station programme...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u209	No, I don't mean opinion. I'm just saying that I hope these stations aren't showing the truth, especially since it's public television, Mr. Marshal, and that's where I saw that there's already been calls. That's why... [[Watch where they're telling the truth.]] [[Where did they say that?]] They're here... [[On TVN, on TVN24, the whole truth 24/7.]] People are already in line, they're checking in, so I'd like to know... [[Senator, we are at the point of the report on the committee's meeting, not the opinion of TV stations' programmes.]] But no, I'm sorry, let me finish, Mr. Marshal. I guess you don't understand my question. I mean... [[I get it. I'll answer you, Senator.]] You understand, don't you? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u210	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u211	Mr. Marshal! Senator! High Senate! Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to start by spending a budget issue. The Minister has the power to answer these questions, and I have no authority to speak about them. Nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen, each of us is aware of this... you mentioned here that the Law and Justice spoke about various things. Indeed, Minister Antoni Macierewicz, in the first days of his office, when he spoke in his own office, said that it was a kind of exposé about the direction of the Ministry and reconstruction of the Polish Armed Forces, that the construction of the Territorial Defence Army of the country would be a very important element. And in order to organize this new type of armed force, we need to do some organizational work. This organizational work is going on, though... sorry, Mr. Marshal. Senator, I am aware that I am going beyond the report on this matter. I think so much work has been done in this matter, that... you are here, Colonel Artur Dębczak, Deputy Head of the Office for the Organization of the Territorial Defence Army. In the spring of this year... Many organizational work has been done to build this type of formation. What the senator saw on some TV... I don't know what it was. As I have already mentioned, in agreement with the Rector of the Senior Officer's School of Land Forces, 150 seats were organized on an officer's course for civilians who graduated from higher education as well as for professional soldiers. There was a normal qualification there. I asked in my constituency what she was like, I'd say, selection. And imagine, Senator, that 16 university graduates were accepted for this course because of their skills, knowledge and physical condition, only 2 university graduates. So the way you recruit is very serious. These may have been pictures from this... After all, you know very well that in the 3 eastern voivodships in Podkarpackie Voivodeship, where the commander of the 3rd Brigade of the Territorial Defence Military is appointed; in the Lublin Voivodeship, where the commander of the Lublin Territorial Defence Forces is appointed; in the Podlaskie Voivodeship, where the 1st Brigadier of the Podlaskie Brigade is appointed, preparatory work is taking place. These preparatory work is carried out at officer level, concerning the soldiers who will prepare these brigades for the state of readiness. I will tell you right away that between 6% and 8% are professional soldiers who are involved in organizing the brigades.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u212	Senator Florek, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u213	Mr. Senator, let me get to the more detailed question. I'm talking about art. 98j, specifically about the duration of territorial military service. According to your lips. 1 is between 1 and 6 years. It wasn't that long ago in the Senate that we passed, we extended our period... [[We've been through it.]] [[12 years old? We've been through it.]] [[We put up with him because he was blocking...]] Oh, that's right. It was about the pension system, etc. [[It wasn't about the retirement system.]] But it wasn't meaningless. The duration of territorial military service shall be from one to six years. In the mouth. 2 is the provision that it may be extended, on request or with consent, for a further period. It's an art. 98j. And my question is, since the service period lasts from one to six years, but it can be extended... From this record it appears that it may only be extended once. And now I am. If the duration of the service is one year and is extended by a maximum of 6 years, it will be 7 years in total and if it is six years, it may be 12 years after that extension. Yes? It involves costs, salaries, etc. What is the meaning of this extension of service? From one year to six years... How am I supposed to read it literally? Because it's incomprehensible to me.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u214	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u215	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, it's just as it's written. She can be extended by one to six years.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u216	It's a supplementary question. If it can last up to 6 years, i.e. that it can be extended for another 6 years, i.e. it may last a maximum of 12 years. Yes? That's how I figured it out.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u217	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! One more element I would like to draw attention to. Every soldier will be evaluated every year. And that's gonna have an impact on that, too. [[I'd like to ask if these 12 years are the maximum. Yes?]] This is not a maximum period. In any case, there will be a decision to extend such a period.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u218	Senator Panczyk-Podziej, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u219	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I listen to the questions that my colleagues are asking, and I share the concerns of all those senators who look at the young people who are dreaming, the ugly name, the warrior... that it will be just like those who are newly baked drivers of the bravado, the youthful fantasy, the lack of predictability. Do we, first of all, not easily allow young people access to weapons, and secondly, do we not too trust that their youthful zeal will be used properly? This modest number of hours provided for training absolutely does not guarantee proper preparation of substance, mental, simply security. Aren't you afraid that such universal access of young people to all the things they're offered here is dangerous?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u220	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u221	Mr. Marshal, Senator, Professor, I think thinking with concern for our homeland, for safety... Well, I'm sure there's an element. I would like to quote a thought which was presented during this conference at the Academy of War Arts and which concerns the idea of creating a Territorial Defence Army in Poland: knowledge in the head, weapons in hands, patriotism in the heart. We will never avoid such doubts, but I think the challenge for all of us is that the Territorial Defence Forces should strengthen the security of the Polish state. We need them. If you were to talk... To be honest, I admired Minister Antoni Macierewicz when he last year. I'm just talking about the last year. Almost every Saturday or every Sunday, together with the Head of the Office for the Organization of the Territorial Defence Forces, he met with such organizations, he was in contact with these young people and their guardians. There is no such thing as charging, there is concern and thinking with reflection also about what passions it wants to develop.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u222	Senator Grubski, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u223	Mr. Marshal, it's this week of civil service. If there is an offence at that time or an offence by a person who is a soldier of the Territorial Defence Army, will the police intervene or will the police intervene? And how will this be during the two days during the month mentioned here? Are the police going to intervene? And then there's the D.A.'s office. Is this gonna be the U.S. Attorney's Office or the U.S. Attorney's Office?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u224	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u225	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, as you know, we didn't talk about this at the hearing.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u226	I suggest you ask this question to a government representative. Senator Zdrojewska, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u227	Thank you very much. I don't know if the committee was talking about it. If not, I'll ask the Minister that question. I'd like to ask you if... We are still talking about different paramilitary formations and so on. I think the idea is that this will be the basis for creating new troops. I'd like to ask if there'll be any possibilities, for example. The whole organization, the whole group was joined to these troops, or it would be done individually. Is that possible? I'm gonna ask you straightaway. That the paramilitary organizations that colleagues were talking about here and to which we might not trust could be incorporated into the Territorial Defence Army as a whole? I'd like to ask you that.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u228	Mrs Senator, at least twice the rapporteur made it very clear that everyone would be admitted individually, there would be no group parties. [[Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka: But will it be possible that they will be able to reach one place in the group? That's what I'd like to ask.]] If the senator wants to complete my statement, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u229	Mr. Marshal, Senator, I will answer again because this is a very important matter. And it is not enough to tell about this matter, it is also necessary to accept this information for dissemination and to talk about the state that it is actually. I repeat once again: it is individual acceptance of each volunteer as a candidate and it is not possible to accept whole groups. I wouldn't talk about paramilitary organizations, but pro-defense organizations, those that work with the Ministry of National Defence. I'm looking for the Senator's concerns here... Will these organisations continue to function? Yeah, they'll be able to function. But the Territorial Defence Army will be created from scratch on the basis of the individual commitment of each candidate.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u230	Senator Wszyl resigns. Mr. Senator, thank you very much. [[Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Thank you very much.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for National Defence has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? I would like to welcome Minister Bartholomew Grabski. Hello, Minister. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u231	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The draft law was presented very carefully by the rapporteur, Senator. I would like to stress one thing here: the draft law on the Territorial Defence Forces is extremely important. It aims, as has already been emphasised, to improve the security of the Republic of Poland. I would like to point out that a new type of armed force will be able not only to cooperate with operational forces in situations of threat to state security, but also to carry out rescue and similar activities on its own in crisis situations and to organise and conduct local self-defense. It will also be a school of patriotic education and commitment to local communities. The project introduces a new type of active military service, a territorial military service, which will be a continuous service as an active military service. The project introduces the principle of directing soldiers appointed for the first time to the territorial military service for basic training, which lasts 16 days. This has been raised by the senators before. Basic training is only the beginning of training of soldiers of the Territorial Defence Army. Further training programme includes, among others: The three-year cycle of specialized training, including the first year includes the training of an individual territorial defence soldier, the second year of training on the team, and the third year The training in the platoon. The proposal also provides for the award of the Senator rapporteur to the WOT soldiers already raised this issue. A monthly allowance for readiness for territorial military service. Given the solution proposed in the draft, it can be certain that the introduction of the Territorial Defence Army will improve the security of our country and increase its defence capabilities, so it is vital that this law is adopted in the form proposed by the Minister for National Defence and by the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u232	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Senator Rybicki, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u233	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I wanted to ask Minister Macierewicz because it concerns his speech, but unfortunately he is not, so I will ask the Minister to comment. At one of the meetings, as the media report, but also participants of this meeting It wasn't closed. Minister Macierewicz was to say that the preparation of the Territorial Defence Army would be carried out on the basis of special forces, so that these units could be almost professional in nature, and that they should be deeply embedded in local communities. In view of what happened in Ukraine, the Minister was to say that during the hybrid war the defence forces could oppose, for example. Special forces, and we know that special forces are highly specialised in the number of at least 30,000. Don't you think that an attempt like this, I'd say, quite frivolous thought structure, that here are soldiers who practice, train in Saturday-Sunday mode, could oppose such a professional group of soldiers as a specnaz, is... How do you feel about that? Wouldn't that be sending these poorly prepared soldiers to a certain death, to a slaughter actually?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u234	Senator, first of all, I would point out that... why do you a priori assume they're undertrained soldiers? That's one thing. Secondly, I would like to remind you that the Minister of National Defence, Mr Antoni Macierewicz, after the bill was passed, until the appointment of the President of the Republic of Poland... entrusted General Wiesław Kukule to command the Territorial Defence Forces. As you well know, this is the former commander of the commando unit in Lublin, so that this case is in really good hands. Please keep that in mind. As far as training is concerned, these issues are taken into account, because the idea is that these soldiers should be trained as best as possible. As for the Russian Special Forces, I find it difficult to speak about the training of special forces. These are issues related to the conduct of war activities, so I don't think this is the subject of this Senate meeting. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u235	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u236	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I will continue... I was trying to ask my question to the senator, who rightly referred me to you. Well, in the first words you spoke from the speaker here in the High House, you spoke about improving the defence system of the Polish state, so I would like to ask you about the credibility of your words and whether, in fact, this 16-day course of soldiers operating under the WOT will improve the security of the Polish state? Isn't it a little bit like that we're suggesting this is some kind of joke? Don't you think this is a joke? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u237	Mr. Senator, this is not a joke. But I have already tried at the beginning to show that the 16-day cycle of training covers a period only to take an oath. Later there is a 3-year cycle of training covering the year of individual training, the second year of training on the team, the third year of training in the platoon.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u238	So I understand, Minister, that in sum... Well, how long will it be to prepare a soldier until you can tell me, a citizen of the Polish state, that this is a soldier of WOT who is fully prepared to stand guard of the security of the Polish state? How many days will it be, how many training units will such a soldier have?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u239	But it's hard, Mr. Senator, to tell. There are various military specialties, different soldiers are accepted, some are accepted from other units, others will be admitted to the National Reserve Defence Army, others from the Reserve. So that it is difficult to harmonise and give a complementary answer to this...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u240	I see. However, such a dilettant, which you will accept, means after graduating from junior high school, but a man who is excellent in health, let's assume, is 23 years old, has not yet had to deal with military service, defence, has no idea, but is passionate and wants to serve Poland... 16 days and then what?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u241	Then the next training cycle. [[Which is?]] Well, like I said, three years old, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u242	But, Minister... [[Three years on Saturdays and Sundays...]] Three years, but in fact how long will he train? [[Weekend.]] Day by day for 3 years, or 3 years for 1 day per month? Because it's a total of three years in this period or 10 years? When is this soldier gonna do this 3-year program? Because that's an important question, you'll admit. [[Twice a month.]] 'Cause I'm talking about getting ready for this soldier's usefulness at WOT. Either we're serious about the security of the Polish state, or... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of National Defence Bartłomiej Grabski: Well, we are definitely serious, Mr. Senator.]] That's why I'm serious, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u243	It shall be evaluated by the commander to the extent that it completes the training programme and shall be evaluated each year in the professional service. [[Okay, thank you.]] [[How many days a month will there be training?]] [[Two days.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u244	Thank you very much. Senator Grubski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u245	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have three questions. First line. The Minister pointed out that the Territorial Defence Forces would be operationally involved only with professional units. Will it also be possible to operate independently, in addition to the situation of natural disasters, that is, militaryly? That's the first question. The second question is the question I raised to the rapporteur. In a situation where he is a civilian for 28 or 29 days, he is not in the Territorial Defence Forces, in the event of a crime or offence, he is subject to military police intervention, as incorporated into the Territorial Defence Army, or the police, and what does it look like during the other two days? And the third question, which, as I say, you have highlighted Minister Macierewicz. How many... Because Minister Macierewicz pointed out that in the recent period they have been modernised, built or rebuilt shooting range. Can the Minister indicate how many of these shooting galleries have been made in the last year and where they are located? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u246	Senator, as far as the first question is concerned, yes, of course: the Territorial Defence Army will also be able to operate independently. About the second question... In the event of a crime committed by a soldier of the Territorial Defence Forces, where it is related to the service, the competent authority will be the Military Police and in other cases Civil authorities, in this case the police or the prosecutor's office. [[What about the shooting range?]] As far as the shooting range is concerned, yes, of course. So far, we are dealing with a condition that a very large part of the military shooting range has been excluded from use. In the Ministry of National Defense, work is being done to restore the operation of these shooters, so that there are no accidents that soldiers have to drive 100, a hundred and several dozen kilometers to carry out the shooting. So that this condition was a pathological condition. We also think the same way about where the territorial defence brigades will be created, whether it's a field range, or other types of facilities where the territorial defence forces can be trained.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u247	Thank you very much. Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u248	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I'd like to ask... I'm not a member of the National Defence Committee, and maybe I'm not the strongest on these matters, but I'd like to ask you something. The law describes various types of payment of money, benefits, etc. in favour of a soldier in the Territorial Defence Army. I'd like to ask you to tell me what the costs will be for employers employing such a soldier. If there was anything you could say about it... And the other thing. However, I'd like to ask you about these officers' trainings. The call took place in June. I asked the Senator rapporteur about this earlier. I understand there's been a recruitment of officers for something that isn't there yet, because we haven't passed a bill. If you'd be so kind as to refer to it...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u249	As far as the second question is concerned, I will say that, of course, work is underway to create a Territorial Defence Army, because no one will wait for Poland to have the capacity to ensure an adequate level of security for its citizens. There is war in the east, there are threats to terrorism, as are other actions in the international arena, so it was necessary to strengthen the security of the Republic. This is also what it is for the creation of territorial defence units of this kind. So it's a matter of... As regards the benefits to OT soldiers, the project provides for a monthly allowance to OT soldiers for their readiness to perform territorial military service. That's 10%. Private salary. This is the amount of about 500 PLN. [[So the private earns $5,000?]] Excuse me? [[Private makes 5,000 zlotys?]] No, no, 10%. Average private salary, Mr. Senator. [[We ask if he makes 5,000 zlotys.]] [[10%.]] 10% Mr. Senator. [[But you said it was 500 zlotys.]] [[I asked how much a private earns.]] [[We ask if a private earns $5,000.]] I said... [[The question is, how much does a private make?]] [[Mr. Marshal, may I ask you a question?]] [[We'll write it down.]] [[Can't you be the first to know me?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u250	The next question will be asked by President Klich...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u251	I'm sorry, but I haven't heard yet... [[The voice from the room: Right now, but...]] I'm sorry, I didn't get the answers to the questions I asked. I didn't ask you how much he was getting, I was just asking about the expense on the part of the employer who hired a soldier from the Territorial Defense Army. That's what I asked you: about the employer's expenses. And these costs may be related to dismissals, I understand, vacations. The point is to tell you what the costs are on the employer's side and what obligations he has in relation to the Territorial Defence Forces, because I think this is important. And the other thing. I would ask you to state the legal basis and the budget department as regards the creation and payment of these trainings of the territorial defence officers. Please tell us from which budget department this funding is implemented and on what legal basis: is this an order, or is that an order? Please answer these questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u252	But, Senator, for now, there's a registration of those soldiers who are ready to proceed with territorial defense. No training so far. From what I can tell They do not take place, pending the adoption of a law on universal obligation in this regard. That's one thing. As for your first question, Senator, it's all set out in the bill. I will try to ask you to present this in detail in writing, all of these issues comprehensively 'Cause I'm scared... not to miss anything.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u253	Thank you. Mr. President Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u254	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I would very much ask, on behalf of the entire club, to take seriously the questions that are being asked here, in particular the questions of Senator Zdrojewska, who actually asked about it. And I'd like a detailed answer now. When the process of creating the Territorial Defence Army began. When did the process of creating the Territorial Defence Army begin? I understand that he has not yet led to the recruitment of soldiers who are to serve in the first 3 squads of territorial defence, those to whom the Minister has announced that they will be created by the end of this year, but I assume On the basis of what you have said, Minister, based on what you read and what you see, also on public television or above all on public television. That the process of creating the Territorial Defence Command and the First Three Brigades of Territorial Defence has already begun. And I'd like to know when it started. [[And based on what.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u255	Mr. Senator, conceptual work on the creation of the Territorial Defence Army began at the beginning of this year. As far as the appointment of individual commanders of the territorial defense brigades is concerned, I wouldn't want to make a mistake here, but I think it was... [[August 1st.]] It was August 1, this year. [[But on what grounds?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u256	Asking questions, if you don't mind... I understand that the creation of territorial defence in this aspect that we are talking about began before we were sent to the Sejm. Even more so before she was sent to the Senate A law establishing this type of armed force. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u257	Well, conceptual work, Mr. Senator, it's done. [[But it's about calling those commanders you said in August...]] [[It's not a calling, it's a designation.]] I don't think it's a calling. It's an appointment, Senator. [[Yeah, the appointment. Yeah, yeah.]] [[But on what grounds?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u258	So that was before the adoption of this law establishing territorial defence as a separate type of armed force. But on what legal basis? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of National Defence Bartłomiej Grabski: If I may... I will ask for the help of Deputy Director of the Legal Department, Director of Stachurski.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u259	You're welcome, Mr. Director.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u260	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! These units are created on the basis of the Act on the Office of the Minister of National Defence. And as you probably know, the Minister of National Defence may appoint any military unit in the territory of the Republic of Poland, of any name and scope of action. Thus was created the Command of the Territorial Defence Forces, as a military unit temporarily subordinate to the Minister of National Defence. Similarly, these brigades are created, on the same basis, as military units set up by the Minister for National Defence. It is within the framework of the provisions already in force that the Minister for National Defence is allowed to do so. As far as the exact date is concerned, I don't have that decision on me, but if the Minister wishes, we can send it. That was the point. In addition, already discussed at the session of the Sejm Sub-Committee by Mrs Siarski, this decision was presented there, and the date of its adoption was given. In any event, such a decision is in operation and on the basis of this decision was established the Command of the Territorial Defence Forces and other units. [[Minister, if you don't mind, I'm asking for that information in writing.]] [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of National Defence Bartłomiej Grabski: Okay, of course.]] [[And also information about those units that have already been created, as I've heard.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u261	Thank you very much. Senator Florek signed up for the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u262	Minister, I will return to my question, in the context of your statement that in the article. 1 in point 27, that is the amendment to Article. The term of territorial military service shall be from one year to six years and thereafter in paragraph 98j. 2 it is stated that the duration of the service may be extended for a further period. I would ask you to clarify this term for another period. And now like this: if it can be from 1 to 6 years, I assume at the moment that the service time could be 1 year. If 1 year, then, Minister, as I counted, 16 days of training plus 11 months times 2 days, that gives a total of 38 days. And we're talking about professional training of a soldier, because there's a record from one year to six years old, could be 6 years old, could be a year, so at that time this person needs to be trained. So I mean professionally, as you said, training a soldier. My specific question concerns this second period. Does this term "from one year to six years" mean that when someone was 6 years old, it can be extended to 12 years, or should it be interpreted differently? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u263	Mr. Senator, you literally have to read it, which means if it's six years old, it could be extended for another six years. I think, with the consent of the commander of the unit, of course, if the age requirements and training requirements of this man are met, this soldier is also for another period.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u264	Thank you very much. You're going to ask Senator Komarnicki another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u265	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'm going back to my question and I'll probably hear the Minister's answer logic... What's the point, Minister, of subjugating the territorial service, the territorial army directly to the Minister of Defence, since at the time of "W" read: War In order for territorial defence to move, does it have to request permission from the operational commander once? Don't you think it's such an organizational waste of time? That's my first question. And I repeat my second question, Minister. According to the Act, the priority of joining the Territorial Defense Army is the shooting units. But some of them, like the Strzelecka Unit 2039 from Krakow... Attention, it consists of members of the Falanga and activists of the Pro-Russian Change Party. Is that true, Minister? Because maybe I'm wrong.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u266	Mr. Senator, I'll answer your first question. As far as the sense of territorial defence is concerned, its subordinateness to the Minister for National Defence is concerned, that is to say, as rational as possible and According to the Minister of National Defence and not only It's the right thing to do. First, the current management and command system will change. There's work going on, there's a strategic defence review going on, this system is not a target command and command system in the Armed Forces. That's one thing. Secondly, the location of the territorial defence commander directly under the Minister of National Defence, which is consistent with the Constitution, will provide a greater opportunity to react... The current management and command system, which provides for the location of inspectors of particular types of Armed Forces under the General Commander, does not, in our view, fulfil its function. So that's the optimal structure. [[And the second question, Minister?]] Second question... It's hard for me, Mr. Senator, to refer to this... [[May I have your answer in writing?]] ...but the answer to that question probably already, as far as I know, was in committee meetings... I don't think there's any danger that organizations will be admitted to the Territorial Defense Army. They will be accepted, as the rapporteur, the individual, has already stressed, and they will be checked and security assured. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u267	Thank you very much. Senator Sławomir Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u268	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, in relation to the previous question about the characteristics of people who apply for recruitment points... Speaking of which, it is strange that recruitment to the type of Armed Forces is ongoing, for which the legal basis has not yet been adopted by the High House, but I understand that recruitment is based on some legislation that the Ministry is using. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of National Defence Bartłomiej Grabski: On the basis of the decision of the Minister of National Defence, Senator, not some regulations.]] Well, a kind of Armed Forces doesn't seem to be subject to the Minister's decision, rather it's a statutory rank... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of National Defence Bartłomiej Grabski: But so far, units have been established...]] I'll ask the question, and the Minister will answer. Okay? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of National Defence Bartłomiej Grabski: Okay, of course.]] Thank you very much. Minister, there's a call going on. I understand that there's a registration for applicants at the recruitment points. Is it possible to ask for a first opinion on the characteristics of these individuals? I ask this in particular in the context of these earlier questions about the disturbing phenomenon of the emergence of groups that belong to the organization, say, of questionable reputation? Can you give a first opinion on the characteristics of applicants already? Who's that in what number? What are the motivations of these people? And what's their characteristics? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u269	The recruitment process is underway, Mr. Senator, and I think at the end of the year... [[Is it monitored? And what are the conclusions of this monitoring?]] It's monitored, of course. The conclusions are positive. We've got candidates coming in... I don't think there's a threat here that you're talking about. [[Mr. Marshal, please respond in writing. Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u270	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Grabowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u271	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have two questions. One is short. I would ask you to extend this information, which the rapporteur has already provided here on what forms of media campaigns will be implemented locally. We have heard that interest is quite high, but will it be centrally controlled, will these campaigns be implemented in some way bottom-up? Who's gonna do this? That's one question. And second question. I don't know if that's the question or not, but I'd also like to know what kind of weapon the WOT troops will have. Will it be light, heavy weapons? Are they planned... Will the catalogue of weapons on the equipment of WOT, WOT troops be extended? I have another question: will it be a new weapon, purchased specifically for these units, or will it be a weapon transferred from the Polish Army units? And yet the issues of securing this weapon, which are also quite important, because I understand that the infrastructure as such is not yet in possession of and cannot have. How is this planned? When this weapon is passed on, or systematically, is it going to be some massive action, so to speak? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u272	Mr. Senator, about the first question about advertising campaigns It's hard for me to answer that question right now because I don't have that kind of knowledge, but I'll try to make sure that answer is given to the senator. As for the second question about the equipment of the soldiers of the Territorial Defence Army, I will say that it falls within the scope of the Programme of Technical Modernisation of the Armed Forces and the answer to it is, I think, but rather I know for sure, to be given in secret mode. When it comes to securing the weapons equipment of the Army's territorial defence troops, I will say that it will mainly take place within military units. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u273	Thank you very much. Senator Dobrzyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u274	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, of course we are creating this army in fear of what is happening in the East. I will remind Russia and Ukraine of the regular war, as well as the events in Georgia. I have a question for you... Well, that's it. Of course, it's also a form of repulsion, and it's also very important. The question is, is there work in the ministry... Is there a concept that would include the Border Guard in the authority of the Minister of National Defence, which would be very logical and extremely desirable in this situation? Did you talk about it? Is there such a concept? Don't you think it would be necessary to work on this subject? Border Guard... [[Voice from the room: Border Guard.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u275	Mr. Senator, as far as the Territorial Defence Army project is concerned, it contains solutions to enable the Territorial Defence Forces to cooperate with the Railway Guard, the Forest Guard and the Volunteer Fire Department, as well as the Border Guard. And as for the plans to include the Border Guard in the structure of the Ministry of National Defence, this is, as far as I know, not the work going on.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u276	Thank you very much. Mr. President Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u277	Minister, we're here on the grounds... i.e. the justification of the Senate was not given, but in the justification of the draft law addressed to the Sejm it is referred to the financial consequences of the envisaged decisions, which is referred to only about 3 years: 2017, 2018 and 2019. I will tell you, on the basis of newspaper and television knowledge, that you are planning for 2016 the amount of almost 400 million PLN, about 300 ninety-something, if I remember correctly. So the summa summarum for 4 years will cost about PLN 3 billion 600 million to create the Territorial Defence Army. The cost of the whole giant operation, the largest in post-war history, of course, I think about the period after the Cold War ended. The Polish Army, an operation of professionalization, spread over the period 2008-2011, amounted to PLN 3 billion 500 million. What do you want to spend more money on than on professionalisation, including not only the profession, but also the reform of the training system, the food system, the accommodation system, the recruitment system, qualifications, etc., etc.? That's a lot of other systems. Comprehensive change This includes the acquisition of over 30,000 professional soldiers to supplement the composition of up to 100,000, and several thousand soldiers to the NSR, plus the reforms of the dozen systems that I am talking about cost 3 billion 500. So what are the three billion 600s going to go for as part of the creation of the Territorial Defense Army?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u278	Mr. Senator, I'm sure it will contribute more to improving and increasing the combat capabilities of the armed forces than the previous reform or professionalization, as the senator was gracious to say. Previous professionalization "Unfortunately, in quotes, what needs to be said" It did not contribute to the improvement on the one hand of security and on the other hand to the efficiency of the operation of the armed forces. This can be seen on the example of the current management and command system. I am no longer talking about the reform of the logistics system, which also leaves very much to be desired, as well as the system of military education, which leaves even more to be desired, as well as a number of other elements of this process, which Mr Senator was gracious to call professionalization, and in my humble opinion it was rather the distribution of the Polish army.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u279	Mr. Chairman wants to ask you a question? [[Yes.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u280	In this respect, I would like to remind you that for professionalisation under 7 laws These laws were adopted and reformed the systems I was talking about and introduced occupations and the National Reserve Forces voted all of your group, that is, Law and Justice. All these laws have been supported. As is well known in the world, our professionalization has been modelled, among others. Germany. But I didn't ask you about your assessment because we're radically different. I understand you're a supporter of the army in the conquest, I'm a supporter of the modern army. Professionalization consisted in adapting our army to the standards of the modern Western world. But it's not the grade I'm talking about. I mean, what you're going to spend $3 billion 600 million on when that giant operation, which I'm going to say again, has cost 100 million less than what you're going to do with a dozen systems. What do you want to spend it on?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u281	For the equipment of the Territorial Defence Army and for the various elements associated with their creation, Senator. [[Well, that's professionalization.]] [[Yeah, it's field professional.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u282	But for the equipment, Minister, what? I'm going to go back to the question your friend at the Law and Justice Club asked because it's fundamental. What do you want to equip the Territorial Defense Army with? If you can't or won't tell me, I'm asking you to tell me what the equipment of these troops is going to be different from the equipment of operational troops that play a fundamental role in the state's defence system.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u283	Mr. Senator, this is set out in the PMT modernisation programme, which is the technical upgrade program of the Armed Forces. [[I'll tell you what you should do later. Okay?]] Good.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u284	Senator Shark.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u285	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. After hearing all these answers, Minister, I would like to say that you have a very difficult case to defend. So far, you've had trouble answering every single question. We expected a more profound discussion, as well as the knowledge that we have the right to receive from you. We regret very much that Minister Macierewicz has not come to us. As to the questions, I would like to ask if the 2016 budget included funds for the creation of the first 3 Brigades of the Territorial Defence Forces in accordance with the Minister's declarations. And another question. You said that the 500 zlotys they get, I don't know what to call them. The participants in the Territorial Defence Army are based on the conversion rate: 10% the remuneration of the private. Please tell me whether we have heard well that in our Polish army the private receives a salary of PLN 5,000. And I'm just gonna tell you, and then I'm gonna ask you. On what basis have they been conducted so far... You're talking to the director about the decision or regulation of the Minister of National Defence. I would have a request, Mr. Minister and Mr. Marshal, for information on this subject in writing. The point is when this decision was taken by the Minister and in what form. Okay? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u286	Thank you very much, Senator, for your question. If I can't answer some of the questions satisfyingly, I'm sorry. I will try to make a written reply, among others. The senator's question was given comprehensively. About the question... I'd just like to point out that they're not any contestants. They're territorial defense soldiers. That's first of all, Senator. [[They're contestants.]] Excuse me? [[If twice a week... aren't these the contestants?]] And when it comes to this salary, this supplement, I said it's 10%. ... [[Voice from the room: Private salaries.]] [[Yes, Private. That's what you said.]] ...sponsored by a private... I used the phrase "about." So here... [[But about how much does that mean?]] No, okay. I'll try to give you the exact amount. For all I know, it's more like 400 zlotys, but that's... [[$2,000 900 has a private...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u287	Good. Minister, in order to sort out the discussion, from what I've been informed, you've been answering for half an hour. We'll group up questions if you say yes. Okay? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of National Defence Bartłomiej Grabski: Okay, of course.]] First, Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u288	Mr. Marshal, Minister! I will return to the question I asked the senator of the rapporteur. If you don't mind, I'm gonna repeat them briefly. This concerns the activities of the Territorial Defence Forces. As the Senator rapporteur said, these are troops, which are to a large extent "Whether in large or smaller, let's not get into it." They will be used for various types of disasters and various local threats, such as those found in local communities. Soldiers recruiting from this community will know the terrain, etc., etc. Therefore, I have a question and I would ask for such a really comprehensive answer. Suppose there's a flood threat. A small river is pouring out, one commune is flooded and a territorial defence force is needed. They show up... First of all, Minister, who will send them to this operation, and second of all, And that's what's most important. Who will they be subject to during this action? And that's the first question. [[Who's in charge?]] Who's in charge? Well, it's obvious that this must be a coordinated action, as usual, in situations like this. That's one thing. Secondly, I'd like to ask you what you said about professionalism. If I understood correctly, you said that what had been going on in the Polish army so far was not a process of professionalization. So, going further, we could say that this is a poorly professional army. Well, you didn't say that, but you said the first thing. Yes, it is. So tell me... 'Cause I'm a little lost. I'm no specialist in your field, but you, I see, are a specialist, and I'm sure he'll answer me in two sentences. Please tell me what will be the difference between the professionalism of the Territorial Defence Army and the current organization of the Polish army. That's the second question. And thirdly, Minister, I am a little older and I remember that there was once a Territorial Defence of the Country. Could you tell me how this new type of military, the Territorial Defence Army, is different from the former formation, from the Territorial Defence of the Country? Could you please answer the question, Minister? Thanks to this, I will quickly understand what the Territorial Defence Forces are today, in the release of Minister Macierewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u289	Thank you, Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u290	Mr. Minister, personal expenses are PLN 400.500, but we have doubts about how much it will cost to equip soldiers. We don't really know what those uniforms, rifles, or anything else is going to look like, but we're talking 50,000 soldiers. Will this money come from the budget, of those 2% What are we bragging about? Well, we're bragging that Poland keeps contracts because 2% the budget is spent on national defence. Does that mean we'll buy, for example. Less helicopters than we wanted to buy? 'Cause if we finance it with the same money, we're gonna run out of money. Do I understand correctly that this 400-500 PLN plus equipment will be financed from the 2 000 that are included in the budget? Thank you. [[Voice from the room: 2%.]] I'm sorry, 2%.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u291	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. [[I don't want to ask questions with these senators. I want it individually because I have six questions.]] Excuse me? [[I have six questions, so please don't group me with these senators.]] [[Once they'd like to group with the marshal...]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] But we group all the questions. I think the Minister will write them all down. Isn't that right, Minister? [[We're gonna group up.]] [[But, Mr. Marshal, honor our marshal. 6 questions and the next 6 questions will be 12.]] Okay, we'll honor your marshal. I hope the marshal has examined himself... [[Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.]] [[Thank you.]] ...and blowing. [[...to switch seats.]] [[As a senior.]] Oh, did the senator get tested, too? Great. Senator Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u292	Well, thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, there's a lot of hearing going on, so I'd like you to calm me down. I'd be happy if you did it in writing. I'm glad you don't answer some questions rashly, but you want to answer in writing. I'd like to expand... I'm going to repeat my second question. I'd like you to calm me down, and I'd like to have this in writing, because I'm afraid there's already some sympathizers and pro-Russian change party activists in here. Because that's the kind of airlock they're gonna try to get through. I would like to ask you, Minister, to check carefully whether there are also groups of opponents of the current power camp in Ukraine. I'm asking you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u293	Thank you. Mr. President Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u294	Unlike Marshal Borusewicz, I have one question each time, and this time I will refer to this year's finances. These three hundred ninety-six million zlotys you want to spend this year on the creation of the Territorial Defence Army. Where's the money coming from? Will they come from the section of the budget on personal expenditure or from the section on modernisation expenditure? Because it's fundamental. Since such expenses are not included in the 2016 draft budget, this money must come from somewhere. You must take them from some part to invest, as Minister Macierewicz said, in these three brigades and in command. So tell me where this money, almost PLN 400 million, will be taken from under the current 2016 budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u295	Thank you. Are there any more calls? Oh, there you go, Senator Comfort.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u296	Minister, I have a question. In one of the public statements, I think it was Minister Macierewicz's statement, but perhaps one of the Vice-Ministers had such a thesis that, at last, we will have a formation that will be able to fight with a specialist if necessary. Does the Minister believe that such a military that will be trained in a relatively small amount of time will really be able to fight with a specialist?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u297	Thank you. Are there any more calls? Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u298	Minister, one of the Senators of Law and Justice said that these Territorial Defence Forces were needed because of the situation in Ukraine, in the eastern part of the country. A situation that has changed for 3 years. Is that why you need the Territorial Defense Army? Is that the right justification, Minister? Because we talk about such matters publicly, and we have Natovian and other obligations. Can we therefore justify the formation of the Territorial Defence Army? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u299	Thank you. I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u300	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, maybe I should answer Senator Flork's question first. The territorial defence forces are to strengthen and ensure the security of the Republic of Poland, and this is the main emphasis placed on the justification for the creation of this new type of Armed Forces. As regards the issue of the Crisis Management Act and the actions to be implemented in support of public administration in a crisis situation, a number of such actions can be cited here, and as regards the coordination of these actions, they will be coordinated by the authorities of the voivodships. As far as issues related to the creation of the Territorial Defence Army are concerned, I would like to reassure the senators that, compared to the territorial defence which was created in the Polish People's Republic, the real capabilities of the Territorial Defence Army will be much higher. It will be a kind of armed force, it will be a real force that will strengthen the security of our country. As for the question asked by Senator Klich about the amount allocated this year to the formation of units of the Territorial Defence Army, I will try to reply in writing, specifying whether it was personal, property or any other expenditure. [[Thank you very much.]] [[Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u301	Thank you very much. Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u302	I'm in the middle of this round... Minister, if you don't mind, I'm asking for a written reply, too, because I don't want to believe the answer you gave. I accept it. If it's completely different in writing, I'll take it too. I'm gonna ask you one more time. Will the action carried out in the flood situation in the municipality of.x. by the Territorial Defence Forces manage the voivodship? Will he coordinate this action? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of National Defence Bartłomiej Grabski: In agreement with the commander of the territorial defence unit, Senator.]] I would ask you to give such an answer in writing. The voivodship, in agreement with the head of the unit, participates in the elimination of the threat and that is the case. The point is that I know that if there's a flood eradication operation in the commune, the head of the Territorial Defence Army will be arriving in the area by order of your voivodeship and will take over, I understand, commanding the operation. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of National Defence Bartłomiej Grabski: If other state authorities are unable to provide...]] Minister, once again, please... I have a request that the Minister... I'll talk about it in the debate. If there are situations where you don't know anything about military matters, you have to say that it will be an army of a new type. And that'll do the trick. [[Mr. Senator, don't suggest what kind of answers you're going to give the Minister. You have the right to ask, but...]] I'm sorry, I've gone too far. Minister, if I may, I would like a written reply on this particular matter. Second thing, also a written answer... I would like to know what the professionalism of the Territorial Defence Army is, higher than the professionalism of the Polish Army's previous formations. What would you say to the Minister here? Better equipment? Better, more operational training?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u303	Mr. Senator, I don't know if we understand each other. I said this is another type of armed force. I didn't say they'd be better trained, better equipped troops. You're suggesting something other than what came out of what I presented here. This is not a better type of armed force than e.g. Operational troops. This is a different kind of armed force.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u304	It's me to say, I'll go back to protocol later. If that's the case, that's good. Only the first question would I ask for a written answer. Thank you. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of National Defence Bartłomiej Grabski: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u305	Thank you. Now a series of questions from Marshal Borusewicz. [[We've all been waiting...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u306	Minister, first of all, that's a pretty easy question. I'm not gonna ask hard questions, I'm gonna ask simple questions. You said there was no training for the Territorial Defence Army because there was no bill, but you also said there was a registration. So I ask: on what basis was the registration carried out? That's the first question. The second question concerns what is very important in this law. These armies are designed to counter the threat of state security. What are the threats to your security? Previously, the rule is that these troops are to carry out crisis management tasks. It follows that, in addition to crisis management during floods and natural disasters, there is a plan to address the threat of state security. What kind of threat? Is this where he goes? The next question concerns a new article that says that a soldier in active service can join associations and other organisations outside the army. All he has to do is let him know. To date, it must have been agreed, at least at the level of the regiment commander. Now it's just a notification. There could be different associations, including the party... [[Like together.]] No, not together. The senator was talking about... [[Voice from the room: Party Change.]] Change. [[The party's not an association.]] It may be called a change association. How do you justify that? This rule will not only work in the Territorial Defence Forces, but in the entire army in relation to the newly ascending. As I understand it, for those of you who are in the army, I don't think it's working. I don't want to dig any deeper, but this is an inequality to the law. If for those who are already in the army... What's the condition here? Why is there such a change? And one last question. Why has these troops been subjected directly to the minister, who is a politician and who has different ideas Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, I'm not asking you about these ideas, but there were some ideas and speeches that were surprising, even if... Let me ask you this: how many drones of this thousand we've been informed about will be destined for these troops? That's where I'm gonna end up.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u307	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u308	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! When I hear these beautiful, beautiful questions asked by theorists, I wonder what's been here so far. I have a question for the Minister about the NSR. Who called the NSR? That's one thing. How do you feel about the NSR problem? That's two. Did he fulfill his theoretical role that was assumed? Third, will it continue...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u309	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u310	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I would like to return to the issue of the state of the natural disaster and the fight against the consequences of the natural disaster. In the light of the current rules, if the state of the natural disaster has been declared at the level of the municipality, the ghetto is, so to speak, the head of the fight against the consequences of the natural disaster. All services are in subjection to him, and he gives orders to deal with the consequences of natural disasters. If a natural disaster is declared at the level of the county, then such power associated with the liquidation of the effects is taken over fully by the governor and to him are subordinated to all institutions which... He gives them instructions, orders. In a situation where the mayor or the mayor fail to carry out their tasks, an old man may change at the request of an old man... The Starosta can take over his powers. If the governor fails to do his job, then the voivode may appoint another person, but there will always be someone here who will have that power. And now the question is, will the governor or mayor, at the time of fighting the effects of the natural disaster, give orders to the territorial defence forces? This is a specific situation.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u311	Thank you very much. Senator Grubski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u312	Minister, you've got the wrong guy with the pay, because this 500 zloty... You haven't been able to tell me what 10% is. But that's not the point anymore. Perhaps you know if this 500 PLN is taxed or not taxed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u313	Thank you very much. Are there any more calls? I don't see any volunteers. I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u314	Mr. Marshal! Dear Senators! As for the question of this monthly allowance for readiness, Senator, I used the phrase "ok." 500 PLN. I didn't say it would be exactly 500 zlotys. [[About 5,000, the Minister said.]] No, I said 10%. medium pay. [[About 5,000, the Minister said.]] Mr. Senator, really, I'm not gonna argue because I didn't use that phrase. I recommend you listen to this statement. As for the Marshal's question... [[Is that a gross amount or a net amount? You didn't answer me.]] [[I ask for peace and opportunity for the Minister to answer questions.]] As for the question of your marshal, who asked about the organisation of the Territorial Defence Army so far, it was based on the decisions of the Minister of National Defence. As I have already emphasised, this will be presented to you. As regards the question concerning the threat of state security, this includes: about hybrid activities, as well as other diversionary activities that may take place in our territory, and not necessarily leading to the launch of military actions of strict sense. As regards the question related to the next question, the question of informing the commander of the Territorial Defence Unit of membership of associations and organisations, the content of this provision has been amended on the basis of the opposition parties' votes. And we believe that this change is appropriate. The role of the commander of the Territorial Defence Army unit or other competent authorities is to assess whether or not the organisation carries State security risks. About the next question... [[Minister...]] Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u315	Minister, I'm sorry, I've got attention. This bill only introduces notification. It's not like anyone's allowed or not... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of National Defence Bartłomiej Grabski: I know, there's an expression saying about information.]] Just let me know, that's all. And this will not apply only to territorial defence units, because it is introduced into the law which concerns the Polish Army, to the law on the universal obligation of defence of the Republic. This isn't just about territorial defense.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u316	Yes, Mr. Marshal. As regards the next question concerning the location of the Territorial Defence Forces in the structure of leadership and command, I will repeat that the strategic defence review is currently underway and a new management and command system will soon be set up. The Minister of National Defense exercises civilian control of the army, so that the threats you spoke of are not here. As regards the assessment of the National Reserve Forces and the entire National Reserve Forces programme, it can be said that the evaluation of this programme contains considerable reservations as to the fulfilment of his assumptions. In-depth analyses will definitely be needed to decide to what extent this programme needs to be modified or improved. These will also be decisions taken in the framework of a strategic defence review. As far as disaster-related issues are concerned, this is set out in specific legislation. The issues of independence and cooperation between the commanders of territorial defence units or other commanders of other units... If there is a need or a need for such cooperation, appropriate action will certainly be taken on the basis of existing legislation.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u317	E.g. about a local government that has the right powers. It's all coordinated, I understand. The Local Government Act is coordinated with provisions on possible cooperation with territorial troops, etc. Yes? My question relates to the competences of local governments, mainly the district government, which has special competence in the fight against the crisis. There's no such collision, and there's no problem, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u318	There are no such threats, Senator. [[Okay. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u319	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Mr. Marshal, I have not received an answer to the question of 500 PLN. Is it gross or net?]] [[It's tax-free according to the bill we've adopted...]] Good. Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u320	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a total of two questions. Mr. Marshal's recommendation is that we group the questions so that they don't crumble. My first question. I lacked a bit of one element in the debate, a very important element. Well, territorial defence and the fact that it is linked to a particular area and that it is conducted on the basis of people who know their villages, cities, towns... There is a factor in a certain civic upbringing. There's a role, too, I'd say, educational. Would the Minister be willing to elaborate on this subject and point out any programming grounds... Will this element be relevant here? In my opinion, it is very important when it comes to the military, which, or whatever, is a collection. And second question. Is the debate I've been listening to... I also watched it on TV because I wasn't in the O.R. all the time. In the opinion of the Minister... I'll ask you the same question I asked the senator. Does this debate and deflecting a concept that enhances defence and the level of state security strengthen security, or does it have the opposite effect? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u321	Thank you very much. Is anyone else checking in? Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u322	Is Senator Jackowski suggesting that a few senators need to be raised in OTK units? [[I would like to say something in the correction mode, because this question was addressed to me.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u323	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u324	Mr. Marshal, I declare that I absolutely did not suggest this in my question. This is an overinterpretation of Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. I have asked a specific question to the Minister and I look forward to answering it. Thank you. [[Senator Bogdan Borusewicz: Thank you. I'm calmed down.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u325	Are they still willing to ask questions? No. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u326	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, senators! I'll start by answering the senator's second question. As far as the Territorial Defence Army is concerned, it would indeed be advisable to show that their creation will, on the one hand, contribute to a significant strengthening of the security of our country and, on the other hand, to show that the soldiers of the so-called. small homelands, i.e. perfectly aware of certain territorial conditions, local ones will be able to provide far more adequate security for other military units in the territory concerned. Patriotic education, cooperation with uniformed classes, cooperation with pro-defence organisations, raising and cultivating patriotic values also play a huge role here. With regard to the invention of arguments that could be raised in order to show territorial defence in a negative light, of course, this is a possibility, but it seems to me that none of your senators has any doubt that this law is not even necessary as much as necessary to strengthen the security of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u327	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to inform you that a government representative has undertaken to provide a written answer to the questions asked by Senator Zdrojewska and Sztark, as well as by Senators Klich, Rybicki, Komarnicki, Czarnobaj and Grabowski. Didn't I read someone? No. That's all of them. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of National Defence Bartłomiej Grabski: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. Mr Klich was the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u328	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is precisely this that we have doubts as to whether the concept in this form and the law in this form will contribute to the security of our country. Is it not better to spend the resources that will be used to build such a territorial defence on the actual strengthening of our country's security? We think you can. We're pretty sure it's okay. We are convinced that this concept and act reverses us to historical experiences, rather than moving Poland forward, where the whole modern world goes or goes. Unfortunately, this bill is anachronistic. Returning to the past is not a return to territorial defence from the communist times, which has been solved and rightly In 1989, together with Poland's regaining independence. This concept in part "Not completely, but in part," I would like to point out. It refers to what was presented in 1997 and was due to be completed by 2003, but fortunately it was not completed in its entirety. When I came to the Ministry of National Defence, I found the remains of the 1997 concept in the form of territorial defence battalions in Lębork, Białystok, Przemyśl, Kłodzk and Zamość. Five classified units of territorial defense. There were supposed to be 10,000 soldiers and 16 brigades, and I found 1 000 soldiers in a pitiful state. I mean, if you'd seen the territorial defense battalions back then in Lębork, Bialystok, Zamość, Przemyśl, Kłodzku, I'd say it again to make it permanent. Then you'd be scared. Untrained, poorly trained and equipped soldiers Okay, I'll mark it. It's an individual weapon. What was the right thing to do? They should have been professionalized. How to professionalize? Transform into operational troops, because in today's world, the primary force of impact of every major army is the operational army, especially those parts of the operational army that are combat-like, that is, combat units, supported by security and support units, of course. But combat units should be as many as possible, proportionally increasing in relation to support and security units, and operating troops should be trained as possible and equipped as possible. Right now, we're having second thoughts. Not just me, but a lot of people in this room, too. On the following issues. First of all, about the tasks. Let us be clear that one of the reasons for the resignation of the chief of general staff, the prominent commander, General Gocula, is that the Ministry of Defence decided first to develop the concept of territorial defence and then to define its tasks in detail. And here, too, in this bill, we have a laconic record of what are the tasks that the Territorial Defence Forces are going to carry out. And I don't blame the perfectly competent commanders for having doubts about putting a cart in front of a horse. Because the car in front of the horse just doesn't stand up. First there must be tasks, then structures. And then fill these structures with people. You started from the end. You started with recruitment, started with the formation of command and command of the brigades, and the tasks are not yet clear. And unfortunately, this was also evident in the Minister's statement. Because what kind of anti-crisis tasks are we talking about? As we all know, I think it's common knowledge. The crisis is divided into military and non-military. These unmilitary ones have many different forms, and these military ones, however, are a whole range of different activities. And on the territory... and in defense of the territory, the territorial integrity of the country, and so to speak, on various expedition missions. To say that territorial defence units will be used for anti-crisis activities is not to say anything. This is why many Poles and many experts are concerned about what crises we are talking about. Because if it's, like the Minister said, threats of a hybrid nature going outside, like in Crimea, we understand it. The military should be faced with these tasks, that's what it's military for. If these are rescue tasks, unmilitary tasks, in the event of disasters and natural disasters, we understand that too, because this is also one of the military tasks. Only in the first case must we be clear... As it was in Crimea: the dam against such actions as we saw there should be the special forces in the first place. And that's why we've been building special forces for years. Minister Szczygło started to do this, and we continued with me and my successor. As a result of my agreement with the United States in February 2009, our special forces were given priority in terms of common training with the United States. And as a result of this agreement and as a result of the creation of two new special forces, i.e. Special Forces Command, our Special Forces... We have acquired the status of 1 of the 6 NATO Framework States. And the special forces of the Republic of Poland have the power to command NATO operations as troops of 1 of these 6 countries. And this is what the special forces are used for, to deal with threats such as Mr Macierewicz wanted to call by name: from the specnaz side. That's what special forces do. On the other hand, as regards non-military threats and rescue measures, I would like to remind you that groups of soldiers are being expelled from the land troops and not only during disasters and natural disasters to help, for example, in the event of floods. And this mechanism works. Also in the case of the largest flood in recent years, the 2010 flood. The military is fulfilling these tasks and no new type of armed forces need be set up for this purpose. That is why we have doubts about what crises are going on. And these doubts are shared by many Poles. The next issue is finance. Ladies and gentlemen, what we're talking about here is draining the Ministry of National Defence's budget. Of course, it's growing from year to year, because GDP is rising, and since then it's growing at a higher rate, because that's 2%. GDP, as a result of a bill adopted by the previous parliament signed by the previous President. But 3 billion 600 million zlotys is a really serious part that could be used for what the operating forces need most: for a new modern SUW, as they say, means military equipment and weapons, not for traditional weapons, but for modern equipment and military weapons. And I'm afraid that's why the offset talks with the French were broken down to make savings on the technical modernisation of the army and to separate funds from these savings, among others. to increase salaries for soldiers, but also to create the Territorial Defence Army and this year, and in subsequent years. 'Cause the budget isn't made of rubber, it's gotta be taken from somewhere to put money somewhere. Therefore, the fear that the creation of the Territorial Defence Army in the form proposed by the State is the technical modernisation of our Armed Forces, namely the purchase of modern military equipment and weapons for operational troops. State invoking That's my third point. E.g. The National Guard in the United States, whose role is significant, even very significant. But for God's sake... [[Mr. Chairman...]] ...the National Guard... The last few sentences. The US National Guard is equipped with Abrams tanks, Bradley infantry vehicles, F-16, F-15, Hercules aircraft, Apache helicopters, Black Hawk helicopters, etc. This is a large, powerful type of armed force, including expeditional troops that operate outside the borders of the United States. Well, you guys aren't proposing territorial defense. What you'll be able to do I'll finish the first part of the speech if you'll allow me. It is the creation of an army equipped as a light infantry, i.e. with individual weapons and ppanc means. And anti-aircraft. I hope this works. I'd like that equipment. But isn't it better to equip up-to-date surgical equipment than to arm 50,000 people who will be trained on weekends? That's what I'm gonna talk about in the second part of the speech in a minute, Mr. Marshal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u329	Thank you very much, Mr President. Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u330	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, in this debate, in the Minister's speech, I have noticed that, as Senator Borowski said, you have managed the truth very efficiently. I'm sure a lot more could be said, but you've limited yours... the Minister has limited these statements to the legal framework, which is quite precisely enshrined in the bill. You were talking about the purpose of creating the Territorial Defence Army: that this is a reinforcement Mr. Senator said correct, the Minister says reinforcement, but okay. That this is an improvement, strengthening the security of the Polish state. And the question is... I don't know what's going on after these speeches. And why, I'll explain in a minute. First of all, if 50,000 soldiers who get uniforms and rifles will be trained for 16 days and will have a contract for a year or 2 years, it's easy to count Are they going to be professional soldiers able to achieve those goals that are being set? I don't think they will. This service, rotating, available, is a cash benefit that they will receive... I don't know if it's a waste of money to buy those helicopters that can be used for important purposes. A professional professional army is Mr. Senator Klich just said It's the right weaponry, the right equipment. We live in the 21st century. The war in 1939 was a very, very long time ago, so much has changed here as regards weapons. The F-16s are in Krzesiny near Poznań, which is why I know this base well, they are in Powid, and there are other troops. I know what this weapon looks like. Of course, also training soldiers, i.e. professional army. In terms of security, alliances, international cooperation, etc. are important. I am not going to develop this topic, although we could say a lot about it, as it looks today. I'm just going to focus on one thing that was quite often discussed here, on the tasks that are included in the bill. As a matter of fact, the commander of the Territorial Defence Forces is, in particular, responsible for carrying out tasks related to the participation of the troops and sub-groups of the Territorial Defence Forces in the fight against natural disasters, the elimination of their effects, the protection of property, search and rescue or protection of health and life, as well as their participation in the implementation of crisis management tasks. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a National Crisis Management Centre in Poland, there are voivodship centers, county centers, communal centers. For 8 years, I was the chairman of the Voivodship crisis management team. There is a Crisis Management Act of 2009. This law makes it clear who is the chairman, who is part of it, etc. I worked with the Wielkopolska Voivodship Police Commissioner, the Chief of State Fire Service, the head of the WSW with Poznań and I can share my observations. There was talk of floods in 2010. Yeah, there was a flood in Wielkopolska, too. Excellent cooperation with the military. I'd like to thank you for that. Through the head of the Provincial Military Staff in Poznań. I was asking the Minister of National Defence to use force, for help, for support, and probably now, instead of the Minister of Defence, we will have to address the commander of the Territorial Defence Army. It's gonna change that much. Besides, from my point of view, it's hardly gonna change anything. And there was no problem to secure the operation. Just like you. You said the same thing in the county where the governor is the chairman of the county board, it's the same in the commune where the mayor, the mayor or the president of the city, if we're talking about the city on the rights of the county, are dealing with it. Therefore, there is no need for organizational change here. We're pretty prepared for this. In 2010, when I used the army's help, I had an extremely difficult situation. The water reservoir in the lake is fully filled. We have to decide what to do next, whether to let it into a tank that couldn't handle it, because it had the maximum water level, or blow up the shafts and flood the headquarters of 5,000 people. I was the one who made the decision, not someone else, not the boss, the military, etc. It must be clear who decides who has the power to decide in such difficult situations. I wouldn't be here today... I've made a decision not to blow up the water above the floor level. It's a big, risky case. But since I'm also a construction engineer, I've looked through the documentation, checked it all out, and I've made a decision. For a few days, it was possible to maintain this above the peak level. No one else is gonna do that. This has to be done by the landlord, it has to be done by someone who's in the area. I therefore believe that the way these actions have been organised so far has been good. The territorial defence forces may be needed, of course, it is a question of how we will build a defence system in the country, but they must have specific tasks, these tasks must be formulated in a different way. It can't be the troops we'll know they're in the field, which will be equipped as it is in this proposal, and which will be expensive, because it really doesn't change anything. It's worth thinking about. It seems to me that, in the case of this law, we should have no doubt that it is poorly prepared, that it is not good, that it will be expensive, that it will not change anything. Not much of it, I think that the fact that we are discussing it at the moment, we are talking about it a lot, is unfavorable from another point of view. Therefore, it is clear to me that this type of law cannot support, because it does not give anything, it does not change anything, it does not bring any advantage. You said 500+. There's 500 here, too, but we probably don't have to add a plus here... There will probably be more and more of these expenses. You have to save the public pennies, and I think it's an expense entirely unnecessary. And if you do that, then you have to predict it differently, secure it, otherwise prepare a law that would meet this fundamental objective that you are talking about, namely to improve security. This bill of improvement is not being implemented. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u331	Thank you. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u332	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We're debating a very important bill. The bill, which, I say, changes the weight of this army and moves money into the military budget, because it's so that... of course it's worth having everything, but the resources and opportunities are limited. PLN 3.6 billion is to go to this new type of army. The Minister of Defense says he won't take anyone, he'll move them. But it's not like you're not taking anyone away. I believe that the theory of General Balcerowicz, who has repeatedly written and talked about territorial defence, is worth considering, but the proportions must be maintained. The proportions must be maintained. Volunteers, territorial defense... All of this, of course, can be an important component, but the proportions must be maintained. And what are the proportions proposed here? 55,000 to about 90 or 72,000, let's say up to 90 grand, that's more than half. That's what the proportions are supposed to look like. So this isn't just a little internal shift. I know that in Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, this component of territorial defence is significant in relation to all forces, is significant. It is similar elsewhere, for example in Finland. However, in Finland such reserve forces are placed at the border guard, they are to operate immediately at the border. So I don't reject it right away, I'm not saying it makes absolutely no sense, but let's also look at our experiences. In 1939, national defence battalions were created on a similar basis. Did they have any chance with the regular army? None. They were pushed and smashed at a very fast pace. They didn't play any significant role because they couldn't play. The same was true in Ukraine. If anyone invokes what has been happening in Ukraine, they should know very well that Russian troops, mostly parachutes, Russian brigades, have broken up these volunteer troops made up of very ideal people, volunteers, but poorly trained. They surrounded them and crashed them in two boilers. So that these troops suffered enormous losses. Since we are thinking of guerrilla war, we should also be aware of Poland's shape. This isn't Afghanistan, this isn't even Slovakia. And the tanks that are going down the plain... After all, this is the Central European plain. And it is in Ukraine that this war of Russia and Ukraine has shown what such a war is really like right now. The fact that the troops of this type, poorly equipped, are not able to stop the tanks in the area as it is, i.e. partly wooded, etc. That's something you have to be aware of. So you can't put pressure on an army, a well-trained professional army, to move on to a volunteer army, to volunteers. I used to watch, because in the 1960s there was a territorial defense... When I lived in Sopot, in the Stone Potok district, I saw groups of older colleagues walking around with cekaems, trained on Saturdays and Sundays. It caused laughter and mockery, and this name OTK was developed as the Territorial Defense of Kamionka. So you have to do whatever it takes to... if we want to create this kind of force, then they should be properly equipped. And if they're to be in terms of equipment at the level of the U.S. National Guard, it's not a question of 3.6 billion... [[That's times 10.]] ...but probably 36 billion. I think the minister realizes that because he started talking about drones. Well, a thousand drones... That's why I asked you: how many drones for OTK? Of course, it is a new force, created on the basis of various pro-defence organisations, but also on the basis of organisations or reconstructive associations. But it's not... Those who train as reconstructors of the Battle of Grunwald... Well, it's not that kind of war! Or the Napoleonics... You have to have completely different properties here. And it's not that kind of army. I also have concerns about the records they say And they can create such situations, such a danger. That this formation will be used for internal purposes. We have the right to have such objections, we have the right to do so. Also because I don't think the professional army will agree to be, for the second time in history, used for internal combat purposes. The martial law was something all the officers survived. But this is the new army, these are the new people, and they didn't live through it. That's why I think the bill should be clear on this issue, and that it can't... [[Mr. Marshal, 10 seconds.]] Now. ...to be any suggestion that these troops may be used for another purpose. [[Mr. Marshal.]] So I'm gonna ask for another five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u333	Of course, of course, of course. I also have some good news. Mr. Marshal has just informed us that there is an opportunity to hold an additional Senate meeting next week. Thank you very much, Mr. Senator, Mr. Marshal. Senator Jackowski signed up for the next vote. I will immediately inform you that at 4 p.m. there will be an hour's break at the request of President Klich, and today we will continue until 7 p.m. So it's very likely we'll meet again next week. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u334	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to begin by thanking the government for this program, because it is basically a program which we are currently proceeding with in the form of this law on the amendment of the Act on the universal obligation to defend the Republic of Poland and some other laws. I can tell you about my district. And I'm a senator from the Ciechanian subregion. That there territorial defence is very expected by society. Men and women who are interested in serving in this formation come to my office. And there is great hope that this will be the way to build a formation that will be close to people, which will consist of people living in a given area, who know the topography of this area, who know the social situation, and this formation will also be an element shaping patriotic attitudes, because What the Minister said in answer to my question is also included in the educational programme. This is very necessary to increase defence and citizenship. I say this with all my responsibility as former platoon commander who served as a sentry. I've had a chance to get to know how the military works. I would immediately like to say that this concept is absolutely justified, because the task of the Territorial Defence Army will be to carry out anti-crisis and anti-terrorist activities. Unfortunately, in today's world, we are dealing with this kind of action, or we can unfortunately also have this kind of situation in our country. This type of army as an element, as a component of the entire system Because this is, as I understand it, the fifth type of troops that will be in the system of defence and security of the Polish state It is very important, it will fulfil an extremely important complementary and fulfilling role. And from this point of view, I also congratulate the Ministry of National Defence that it came out with this initiative and that, despite this crazy criticism, which is completely incomprehensible to me and shows some people's detachment from reality, this project is currently being processed. I hope that it will be in Poland by law. Act in the new article. 98k in the mouth. 3 specifies the conditions to be met by the candidate for service. The emphasis is placed on having specific qualifications or skills to serve. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the foundation of defense since Tukidides and other war theorists. The terrain, the knowledge of the terrain... If e.g. We're talking about shaping the terrain, about knowing the terrain, about the environment, about the mountain area, and I'd like to say that people who know topography have some skills that people in the lowlands don't actually have. They're perfect for this kind of job. And it is very good that the Polish state allows people to participate in such a program. As I mentioned, I was amazed to hear these words of criticism, especially because they were spoken by representatives of the environment, during which hundreds of millions of zlotys were thrown out into the program of the famous corvette. In the days of one Minister from the Civic Platform there were three tragic disasters in the armed forces: Bryza, CASA, Tu-154. During the time of no other minister in the history of Polish military history in the 20th century, there were no such catastrophes. I'm also saying this as a representative of Ciechanów, where, as you know, It was an ex-military unit. In Ciechanów there were huge military traditions; before the war there were 11. The Ulyan Legion regiment, and after the war, there was a military unit. In 2009 or 2008 6 million PLN was allocated to modernization of the cafeteria in this military unit, and after 2 years the unit was deformed, the barracks closed and to this day 34 buildings from these barracks and the entire magnificent area are undeveloped and destroyed. These are the effects of the actions of home-grown defence specialists who have dealt with this field of state life. I would like to point out that... I hope that Ciechans will be included in this programme and that this will finally give rise to the prospect of the development of the individual and these areas. I hope that this will be properly used and further degradation of the city, due to the fact that in total the center of the city structure is an abandoned area after the unit... I hope that this will be used for public purposes and, above all, for defence purposes. I hope that our allies, who will place their forces on the territory of the Republic of Poland, will also be able to use these facilities, all the more so as As far as I'm concerned, There is no collision when it comes to the possibility of using them in two ways. High Izbo, I support this bill, and I hope that the work that this law initiates will be permanently inscribed as a system that is a modern, efficient system, is the right way to use the human resources that are in a given area, and the infrastructure that is located in a given area... After all, not only in Ciechanów was the military unit dissolved, there are quite a lot of such posh objects in Poland. This programme should also be seen as an opportunity for the development of the areas concerned in the social and economic dimensions. I hope that each of these brigades, which is to be in one voivodeship, will be formed quickly. I hope that in Mazowsze it will be as I have heard in the media of the 2 brigades; the first and the command will be located in northern Mazowsze and the second in the southern part of Mazowsze. Finally, I would like to say that the fear of using these formations for some political action is best demonstrated by the mentality of those who say it. I would like to remind you that during their reign, special services were used to attack the media, on the weekly "Wprost" magazine. I will remind you that also, as a prominent representative of the services said in the conversation at the restaurant, the Minister of Home Affairs played a role in setting the booth on fire at the Russian embassy. I hope it is these practices, because it shows what mentality we are dealing with... that this kind of practice, the imitation of their democratically elected government, which will try after a difficult period for the Polish army to rebuild the Armed Forces according to the needs, challenges, and opportunities of our country, because it must be taken into account... I hope that this programme will be implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u335	Thank you very much. Senator Grubski. [[There isn't anything new, but still the Owl?]] [[You shouldn't have...]] [[Come on, think of something...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u336	Dear Marshal, At the committee meeting, I was a little surprised that Minister Macierewicz did not talk too much about the bill, but he spoke extensively about matters of general interest. Today, the Minister has entered these shoes. Not enough answers, not enough preparation. This is not good, because it shows that you want to change the Polish army, but you criticize everything that has happened so far, and you create the impression that today's situation is much better than it was a year ago, which of course is not true. You should agree that this is not the case and admit your mistakes, that today you are only making a fuss about the Polish army. 3 billion 600 million zlotys in 3 years, and then 1.5 billion zlotys is serious money. You don't respect this money because... I'm asking Minister Macierewicz for my question, wouldn't it be better to create e.g. A special forces component of 10,000 people, I heard the answer that you might be going in this direction as well. It means that the Polish army will continue to grow. The question is, where are you gonna get the money for this? Because today, of course, you're taking this money out of the budget needed for change and modernization. Don't scare Russia. Because you're scaring Russia, and eventually you're gonna cause a situation where your prophecies, those bad prophecies, those prophecies that show that we have an enemy on the other side, are gonna come true. It is very dangerous what you do through foreign policy, through Minister Macierewicz's policy, that you create a threat situation from Russia to Poland. There is no such threat at this point, and there will be no danger, unless you cause this to happen. Professionalization. Minister Klich, I bow to what you've done, because this is a big deal for the Polish army. From the so-called. You have made a professional army of people prepared, well-equipped and ready to defend the Polish homeland. And you can't agree to the kind of words my predecessor said on the stand because it's outrageous. Such statements should not take place at all, such accusations should not take place. Because no minister is to blame for the crash of CASA, the technical conditions are to blame, the weather conditions and other types that occurred at the time. What are we dealing with when it comes to the Territorial Defence Army? You're letting people with category D I've been asking about. You really allow a disabled army to function and create the impression that it will defend Poland's territory. It's not like that. They will not deviate very much from what was in the territorial defense of the country. Mr. Marshal started a story about what territorial defence in Sopot looked like, and I'll tell you what it looked like in Łódź. That's what I said at the committee meeting. It was just drinking vodka and nothing else. I hope you don't let that happen today. 53,000? I think it's impossible. Because we've examined the situation on... unless you actually collect the 53,000 in category D, that this will be a category for something prepared there when it comes to defending Polish borders. Because we tested 53,000 on the National Reserve Forces. Even the change in giving green light to join the regular army did not cause us to increase our recruitment to the NSR from 10,000 to 20,000. So I don't believe you've reached 53,000, there's no way. It's an individual weapon. You raised a very important point, Senator Augustine. Psychological tests, tests, when it comes to preparing and handing over a deadly element, which is individual weapons, in the hands of... this, gentlemen, you will not do this, will only be done for a specific group of soldiers of the Territorial Defence Army, those people who will carry out specific tasks. It's very dangerous. We give a very serious tool in a very large number of hands. They're also supposed to be... Minister Macierewicz said that they would use e.g. mortars. I'd like to see where you'll be, gentlemen, doing these trials, if you're going to. Oh, Boat. In the vicinity of Łódź there is no such ground as to try to do this on it, and again we will drive troops all over the country. Finally... Of course, this law does not deserve support. I will, of course, vote against this bill. I think you should go in a completely different direction. You want to rebuild the Polish army into your prayer. You will do great harm to what has been done so far. Glory to all those who have built the Armed Forces so far based on professionalization and on modernization. Today you're breaking it all down. I'll vote against it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u337	Thank you very much. Senator Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u338	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am pleased with the words of my previous speaker, Senator Grubski, I think he said the whole truth very clearly in a few words. But I can't, even though I sometimes try to agree with Senator Jackowski, whom I very much like for having a wide treasurer of knowledge on every subject... In fact, I think it's rare for someone to perform and to be a specialist in every field. Yeah, but I can't agree with what we're debating today, and the fact that once again, you're going to be handing out public money that is lacking in the various spheres of public life, giving away to some imaginary fanaber of your minister. 'Cause it's nothing but imaginary fantasies. The Minister has participated several times in reconstructions of various battles, connected with various wars that have been going on in Poland so far, and has watched these reconstructions and thought that perhaps today we can win against the enemy in the same way. Only a reconstruction from reality is very far away. There are examples, some of the previous speakers talked about it, a country like Ukraine, where at the moment there is a war, and such pseudo-soldiers are trying to defend Donbass, trying to defend other cities. With what effect, how they do it, what this war looks like, we all see today. I'm not imagining military training today in 16 days. I can't imagine anyone getting a rifle or a gun in their hand and being entitled to use that gun. Today, Dear Sirs, in order to use firearms or sharp weapons, you need all kinds of research, you need permission, you need some qualifications that anyone can fulfill... I think this is the wrong way. Creating a replacement army today that you don't know what it's gonna be for, and you don't know what you're gonna be doing, it's really a little embarrassing. It's a little embarrassing for a uniform that's been through a lot in our country, a uniform that people trust today. If we look at the research, we'll see that they have the most confidence in the fire department uniform, of course, but the military is in second place. And don't let that happen. At least those who wear uniforms, you're military, you took an oath because the minister didn't take such an oath. Do not allow today to diminish the rank of our army and the role of what has been called to do, do not let it diminish the role of the uniform, reduce the rank of the eagle that you are vowing today and with which you are with all the time. I don't really see this army of people who are going to volunteer, who are going to be trained, who are going to be called, when competences can be, I don't know, transferred, for example. To the voivodeship... It's been working out well so far, I think that's what Senator Florek was talking about, who's been involved in a few crisis management operations... And so far these developed procedures related to crisis actions and this law has fulfilled its function. I don't see the need to create anything today. And in a few cases, the Minister has already shown his knowledge and skills in various matters and today his credibility is really greatly reduced. It's a shame he wasn't in this room today because we'd love to hear some more conspiracy theories... But unfortunately, what comes today from this bill, and what I've written down in a few points... I'm sure, like most of them. I think that all the colleagues from the Civic Platform and not only I'll vote against. I think that money can be used for something else. The military is here to defend our country. And you should do everything you can to ensure that this army provides us with a sense of security for borders and citizens, not for people who don't know how they're gonna end up in formation, get a uniform and a rifle. And it is not known who will manage them, on whose orders and when they will appear in units or in separate areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u339	Thank you very much. Senator Klich for the second time. You have five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u340	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I'm here about subjugating the Minister of National Defence. Of course, the Minister of National Defence has the right to directly subjugate the various institutions, which have so far been directly subordinate to the Minister, either of particular importance, or of a little, if any, going beyond the resort. Let me remind you that those that were of particular importance were: S.O.B.; b.W.W.; c. Military police. They're institutions, let's face it, of special, extraordinary competences. cThe direct submission of the Minister of Defence of the National Territorial Defence Army is worrying in this context. I hope it's what Minister Grabski wanted to say, which means it's temporary. From what the Minister has said, I understand that this will only apply until the state decides to reform the command system. At the moment, the powers which the Minister acquires through direct command of the Territorial Defence Forces conflict with the powers of the operational commander of the Armed Forces. The operational commander of the Armed Forces, I quote, commands the forces assigned to support government and local government administration in various non-military crises. This is one of the aspects, one of the tasks we talked about today. In this respect, the powers of the Minister and his subordinate, the operational commander, overlap. I hope that if you decide to reform the command system, you will eliminate its inconsistencies and that, indeed, the commander of the Territorial Defence Army will be treated in the same way as the one whose task is to train and prepare personnel in the Land Forces, in the Air Force, in the Special Forces and in the Navy, i.e. in the 4 other types of Armed Forces. That's one thing. Second, basic training. Regardless of what spells MON would use, basic training lasts 16 days, while I introduced it myself, so I know the preparatory service for volunteers, in quotes, from the street, i.e. those who have never dealt with weapons who want to specialize in it and either be in the NSR, or pass through the NSR to the professional army, it takes almost 4 months for professional serials. It's 16 days here, and it's almost four months in there. How can a four-month programme be implemented within 16 days? It's just impossible, because it's not just about the drill. Therefore, the level of training of these guys and these girls will simply be very weak. The spell here won't help that they'll be trained for a year, two or three years, because they'll be trained on a weekend. That's why we're talking about the weekend army. In a fight with a trained army, e.g. I use the words of Minister Macierewicz here. They'll just be boys and girls going to the slaughter. That's what's bothering us about this solution. We are not against territorial defence, especially since territorial defence exists, which not everyone knows. There is a leadership of territorial defence, there are plans to develop this defence, there are mobilization plans that assume that some of the reservists would operate in territorial defence. I believe that territorial defence should support operational troops in the field of security of facilities, security of communication routes and, finally, in the fight against diversion in the back of their own operational forces. That's what territorial defense should be doing. And these are the tasks of this territorial defence, which is to be developed in time There's another way to go. By training the reservists through significant training of the reservists, i.e. those who are destined for territorial protection If you want to better prepare territorial defence rather than create additional new structures. Senator Jackowski's words will not be referred to except to the statement that I did not expect to hear anything from the senator. more than what you said. Because you're willing to say anything.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u341	Thank you very much. Senator Komarnicki. [[So there were no disasters?]] [[It was completely different, and you know it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u342	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we are discussing whether we really want to be a democratic state, with democratic institutions and order. After all, we know very well that the state of law does not need any quasi-military or quasi-police. A well-managed country can maintain its own order and tranquillity in society, the state is well-managed primarily as a guarantee of citizens' safety. I think we're on a very dangerous road today. That's why my questions are here. With great concern we will be handing out huge amounts of weapons to unprepared people. Perhaps these formations will be penetrated by people who believe that this is the best way to obtain this weapon. They haven't had a chance so far. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not possible to create bodies to be excluded from the supervision of independent institutions. I am referring to the project of creating a territorial defence, a body that will not be subject to like the entire army of the general commander, I have spoken about it with care, asking questions, but a minister, or political authority. You say you want to raise and shape in the spirit of patriotism. That's a beautiful, noble slogan. Unfortunately, I think you'll be raising yourselves in a spirit of obedience, and that has nothing to do with patriotism. Hence this educational reform, hence the attempt to establish a Territorial Defence Army. It's nothing more than a private army that will keep order as power wishes. Unfortunately, the records in the bill leave no illusions. We read in these records that the objective of territorial defence should be to strengthen the patriotic and Christian foundations of our defence system and the Armed Forces so that patriotism and the faith of Polish soldiers is the best guarantee of our security. I understand that Polish atheists or people of other faith will not be able to serve in territorial defence or will not be defended by it. That's how I understand it. This record leaves no illusions This is not a service for Poland, but a service for the only legitimate cause, which is to support the maintenance of power. The army should be apolitical for centuries, and the welfare and security of every citizen should be paramount to it. Ladies and gentlemen, I once had the pleasure and opportunity to discuss with a well-known general, a great General Polko. If we were discussing today, ladies and gentlemen, the Dear Senators, to establish individuals like the GROM, if we were talking about an army that impresses the world, I think we would all applaud today and raise 100 percent... ♪ 'Cause now's the time ♪ ♪ Now's the time ♪ not for improvisation and not for fun, but for professional troops. As General Polko always said: professionalism is today a challenge in the world. Dear Senators, the bill discussed here is harmful and de facto dangerous. Unfortunately, it creates an army for Minister Macierewicz, who will be out of any control. We're creating a precedent that shouldn't take place in a state of law. I hope that you will think deeply and that this bill will not be passed in this form. In conclusion, I would like to thank you, Minister, for having answered my questions in writing. Because they were very important questions. I am particularly concerned with pervading people into territorial protection. Thank you for your attention. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u343	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Marshal Borusewicz. Second appearance, up to 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u344	Mr. Marshal, this is indeed a very important bill and the next step of the Minister of National Defence. A few months ago, there was a change proposed by the minister who predicted that a lieutenant could be promoted to general, i.e. you can be promoted to a position twice as high as... or more, which is even above twice... without limits. And that's what happens in the army: officers are promoted, general staff removed, new officers are promoted and a new staff is created. And here comes a new army, a whole new army. This new army is directly subordinate to the minister. This new army will be able to counter the threats of state security, undetermined threats, there is no indication of what is a threat to state security. There are external threats, internal threats, so they can also be internal, there may be anxiety. And this isn't about helping the hydrates. It is said elsewhere that the new formation carries out crisis management tasks. And no one is able to explain what it means to counter the threat of state security. So here are the rules that... Although it is possible to discuss the fairness of territorial defence, the existence of these provisions makes it impossible for me to vote in favour. I therefore propose that the provisions of this type be deleted. I also propose that we remove the subjugation, the special subjection of the minister and the subjugation of these troops in the same way as other types of troops, the general commander. Because what you're proposing, with what I've said, shows a certain idea. The idea that I don't agree with. So do I. And that's clear, though it's not in this law. This is the beginning of some changes, others. After all, there is talk of reconvening the general public. First the volunteers and then the re-enlistment. We're also talking about getting into schools. After all, there will be new curricula for military adoption. That's all we remember. There are still voices that a new citizen, a new man, can be raised in this way. Well, some of us are already raised, so I see no reason to raise us again. There is also a record here that is surprising to me, allowing soldiers in active service to join associations and other organisations operating outside the army. [[Time's up.]] What's going on here? I said, what kind of organizations? I want the military to be apolitical. Of course, according to this statement, they cannot be political parties. Yes? But it could be an organization called an association with political goals. And that's the kind of organization that works. So how can we allow soldiers to belong to other organizations that are outside non-military organizations? And the trade unions, too? There you go. I'd be behind the trade unions in the military, even though I don't know if that's the intention here. I therefore make a few amendments. First of all, I suggest we delete this vague wording that says that the Territorial Defence Forces can be used to ensure the security of the state. Yes? Of course, when it comes to external security, it's clear that the military is there for that. But not when it comes to internal security! Here only in cases of natural disasters. Nobody else! In addition, I propose that the surrender of these troops be removed from the Ministry of National Defence. There's no reason for that. In addition to political justifications, such submission should be. It seems that the Homeland Security Corps was subordinate to the Minister at the time of the Polish People's Republic. And the Vistula Military Units, they were also subordinated to the Minister, although the Minister of Home Affairs, but still directly to the Minister. And it seemed that such subjections had ended with the past moderation. [[Time's up, Mr. Marshal.]] I would also suggest that we delete this possibility... of the mere notification of the belongings of professional soldiers and soldiers of this formation to non-military organizations. It should be as it is today, i.e. that the commander of the regiment consents to such a thing every time and takes responsibility for the membership of a soldier to which organization he agrees. These are the amendments, Mr. Marshal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u345	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Rusiecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u346	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll start by thanking you. The thanks I want to hand over to Dr. Arthur Dębczak here. And to all officers who have put in their personal effort, their knowledge, their experience, their competence, their courage to carry out the construction of such a well-ranked society... [[What kind of courage is that?]] Don't disturb me, Senator. I didn't bother you. [[I was talking to a friend.]] I think so. This formula for the creation of the Territorial Defence Army in our country is well-evaluated. This effort, which you have made Dr. Grzegorz Kwasniak, Colonel Artur Dębczak or the presently appointed Minister Antoni Macierewicz General Wiesław Kukuła... They are the guarantor of the officer's word of honor that all that is done will serve the security of the Polish state and its citizens. When I listen to the voices of the state, I do not want to say that I am happy about it, but the leitmotiv states have been based on several slogans for several months. Minister Macierewicz's private army, openness to associations which are political in nature, the possibility of attacking internal goals, dubious financing - this is the main scheme. Ladies and gentlemen, it's as if I'm listening to your chief advisor, the local activist of the Nysa SLD, who preaches such a program and project. Don't go that way, or you'll be completely rejected by the community of our country. This project, concerning the military territorial defence of the country, is very well received and evaluated, especially in those parts of our country that are in the east. We simply need the Polish Armed Forces in the form of a tumorized type of armed forces, i.e. the Territorial Defence Forces, to support other types of troops. Because no one else, like a soldier who knows the local community, local geographical conditions, who loves his little homeland, will put so much effort into defending defenseless women and children. I don't want to use the comparisons you're suggesting to the specs and other services. Where do you think you're gonna go? First of all, as the recent case of Ukraine shows, they will not be going to Special Forces to attack them, no They will go to military units, but they will attack defenseless citizens, women and children. Locally, the territorial defense forces, together with the operational forces, are designed to defend the local community. You refer very often to the fact that participation in associations is reprehensible. There, in these associations, you nurture not only your knowledge and skills useful to reconstructive groups, but with passion you work to improve your knowledge, your skills in pro-defence activities. And these are the goals that lead to these young, educated, patriotic attitudes of Polish citizens. You did not understand this in 2014 when the explosion of these pro-defense organizations took place in Poland. What have you done? What did the political leadership decide then? In fact, to coordinate these actions to make the last commander of the Military Internal Service of the Polish People's Republic. You're stuck, ladies and gentlemen, in the old days. I propose that you open yourselves up to a new world, which unfortunately also brings new threats. And once again, the thought that was presented at the last conference at the Academy of War Arts, about the idea of creating the Territorial Defence Army, which is not only based on officers, but also... I would like to congratulate General Wiesław Kukule, who, yesterday, on Podchoreń Day, was appointed, was appointed a general. This soldier who, serving on foreign missions, in the battle square personally experienced what it means to threaten the local community, is the guarantee that the thought of knowledge, in the hand of a rifle, in the heart of patriotism, will lead to creation, and later functioning, of the Territorial Defence Forces in our homeland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u347	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Ryszka made his speech in the discussion on the minutes. I would like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing to Marshal Borusewicz and Senator Klich. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of National Defence Bartłomiej Grabski: Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.]] Thank you. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on National Defence to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting, probably tomorrow at 9:00 p.m. I would like to inform you that today, after the announcement I am about to make, we will resume the proceedings. Today's session will last until 7:00 p.m., and tomorrow at 9:00 p.m., there will be a vote on the points that have been dealt with, including the ones that we have now followed. At the request of the Civic Platform Club, I declare an hour's break. Maybe an hour and two minutes, which is until 5:20. [[Adjournment from 16 minutes 18 to 17 minutes 22]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u348	I'm extending the break until 5:45 p.m. Thank you. [[Adjournment from 17 minutes 22 to 17 minutes 46]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed to the examination of item 15 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Polish Charter and the Act on Foreigners. The text of the Act is contained in print No 332 and the committee report In print No 332 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad, Senator Artur Warzocha, to present a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u349	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today there was a meeting of two joint committees, i.e. the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad, on the issue adopted by the Sejm on 15 November this year on the amendment of the Act on the Polish Charter and the Act on Foreigners. The proposed amendment envisages a number of changes, including, among others,: transfer of the powers of the issuing authority to grant a monetary benefit to the holder of the Polish Charter, which settles in Poland This will be a transfer from the old-age office to the voivodeship, with the old-age office continuing to be the paying authority; the exclusion of the possibility for persons who have received a maximum of 9 months' benefits and the exclusion of the possibility for persons who have used them as members of the applicant's family This is, to put it graphically, the sealing of the payment decision system. The next proposed amendment concerns the creation of a register of applications, decisions and provisions for the granting of a monetary benefit and its inclusion in the national set of registers, records and lists, which is intended to ensure that the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration keeps up-to-date information on the level of use of funds. Another change implies that if the ceiling is reached 75% the amount planned for the payment of benefits in a given year, claims for benefits will continue to be accepted, but their consideration will be suspended until the appropriations for payment are secured in the Budget Act. The aim of this proposed solution is to ensure that the payment of the benefit is possible for all entitled persons, without making the possibility of implementing the statutory entitlement subject to the current level of use of the amount planned for this purpose. That is to say, those persons who apply for a cash benefit during the period during which the suspension of processing of applications will be able to obtain this benefit after securing the funds for that purpose for the following financial year. The next amendment concerns a delegation to the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration to issue a regulation on matters relating to the granting of grants to cover the payment of cash benefits in Article. 24d Act on the Polish Charter by clarifying that this Regulation will also provide for a detailed procedure for the allocation of the special reserve for the payment of cash benefits and for the transfer of funds to cover expenditure related to the granting of these benefits. In addition, the Act is to contain a transitional provision whereby applicants who apply for a permanent residence permit from 1 January of the following year will be entitled to submit applications for a cash benefit. The last of these relevant cases concerns the fact that the Act is to enter into force on 1 January 2017 with the exception of those provisions relating to the inclusion in the national set of registers, records and lists of registers, applications, decisions and provisions in money benefits cases and the rules for making available the data contained in that register They are to enter into force on 1 January 2018. High Izbo, the joint committees have given us a positive opinion on the bill that came to us from the Sejm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u350	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jan Żaryn, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u351	Mr. Senator, I have a question about intentions. What were the arguments in favour of transferring these powers from the old man's office to the voivodeship office? Were they political or substantive?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u352	These were certainly not political intentions. According to what the representatives of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration told us at the joint committee meeting, this was about improving this process. It was argued that this is logical and that it is certainly easier to manage this process at the level of 16 voivodships than at the level of approx. 330 district oldities. And that's the first goal, the first intention. It's about improving this process, as I said. The second point, in turn, is that the implementation of this system in 16 offices, including the related IT system, will be much cheaper than the connection... Because the voivodship offices can't be ignored in this system anyway. That's for sure. As Mr Zieliński said at the committee meeting, it is already known that it will cost about PLN 1 million and this amount would be multiplied I don't know how many times. If we wanted to connect these 330 district oldities to this system, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u353	Thank you. Are there any more questions for the Senator rapporteur? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The draft law was introduced by the Sejm Committee. Today we have Minister Jarosław Zieliński, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration? You're welcome, Minister. [[Cell phone signal]] Please turn off your phone.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u354	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! This is the only reason I am taking the floor to ask the High House to pass this law as it was sent to the Higher House of the Sejm. The government fully supports the bill in this form. Everything is thoughtful, analyzed, well-argued, so that these changes will certainly serve the cause of this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u355	Thank you very much, Minister. Wait a minute, or someone might be asking a question. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of you like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Minister, thank you. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: Thank you very much.]] Now, ladies and gentlemen, I'm opening the discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much, Minister. We'll proceed with the review of 16th... [[Voice from the room: This is Senator Rotnicka's point, and the senator is not in the room.]] You don't have a Senator rapporteur? [[Then maybe somebody else...]] [[Then who else...]] [[Maybe someone on the committee...]] [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] [[Maybe the chairman of the council committee...]] There isn't. Ladies and gentlemen, since you have no Senator Rapporteur or Chairman of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration... [[There's Spider.]] [[Yeah, how about you...]] [[But I don't know...]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm announcing a five-minute break by 6:00 p.m. [[Adjournment from 17 minutes 55 to 18 minutes 00]] Ladies and gentlemen, I will resume the session. Quiet in the courtroom, please. We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: the Act amending certain laws in connection with the creation of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. The text of the Act is contained in print No 334 and the report of the Commission In print No 334 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u356	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to apologize for the slight confusion, because certain circumstances have made me not present here... the bill I want to talk about was being prosecuted at the committee meeting yesterday. After the government presented its records, there was no big discussion. The only issue we were talking about was the introduction, notabene by me, of the amendment, is some kind of legislative correctness. The point is not to add IT cases to this bill... Let's see how it... It's about art. 9, Art. 14 and Article 14 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 22, deletion from the law of Article. 9, Art. 14 and Article I would then ask the Minister for a brief explanation as to why the government party decided to introduce this into this law. I would be very grateful for the explanations, and the senators would have the fullness of the picture presented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u357	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, the senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. [[But we're not gonna bother the senator.]] [[We're not gonna ask.]] Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Home Affairs and Administration has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Minister Jarosław Zieliński is with us. Minister, do you wish to speak on this bill? [[Write down that he's a very decent minister.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Okay, Mr. Senator. [[Mrs. Marshal, I can get in the microphone...]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u358	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! The government's position is this. I ask you to accept the bill, as in the previous paragraph, as it was addressed to the Senate by the Sejm and reject these proposed amendments. About case one... Both relate to telecommunications issues, repealing Article. 100 concerning the financing from the State budget of expenditure of cultivated units . schools, public facilities and libraries, universities and universities related to the provision of network connection services in order to ensure the use of broadband internet access services. The point is that the financing of these projects will take place as part of the implementation of network projects financed by action 1.1. The operational programme of the Polish digital economy for the period 2014-2020. This is the European Regional Development Fund. Therefore, the maintenance of the provision governing a grant for an equivalent purpose in the In the text adopted by the Sejm, this article has been deleted and I ask you to maintain this solution. The second point is the amendment of Article. 183 Act, which aims to separate issues relating to the telecommunications charge regulated by the Act. Indication of the method of calculation of the fee... This fee is the product of the annual revenues from the telecommunications operator's activity required to pay the fees received in the financial year preceding the year for which the fee is due and the fee index It's quite complicated, but I think those who got to know this case understand it well. The Regulation will set out how the fee index is to be determined and how the fee is to be paid, whereas the Communication sets out how the fee index is to be determined and how the fee is to be paid. The amount of the indicator used to calculate the amount of the fee. This will be announced once a year by the Minister of Digitization by means of a communication in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. Such separation of cases will contribute to simplifying the rules on the annual telecommunications fee. And that's two things about one problem. Another point is the amendment to the Law of 7 May 2010 on the promotion of the development of telecommunications services and networks. The changes consist in ordering and supplementing the provisions containing references, which should eliminate interpretation doubts. These are changes of a more legislative nature, but very important from our point of view, especially from the point of view of the Minister for Digitalisation. Mrs. Marshal, High Senate, I repeat your request on behalf of the government. That's our position. To adopt this law in the Seym version, without any amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u359	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. I'd like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up... [[I'm checking in.]] Who's calling? [[Me.]] Oh, Mr. Senator. But the senator didn't sign up. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u360	I didn't sign up, but... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] I'm lucky, Mrs. Marshal. Mrs. Marshal, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, let me say this. I wasn't gonna speak, but I think it's time... [[...to speak.]] ...to tell the entire Home Office: thank you. For what? For being a great minister, Mr Mariusz Błaszczak, for having very good alternates: Minister Zieliński, Minister Skiba. Dear Member States, examples can be given thousands. Minister, thank you for restoring the Carpathian Border Guard unit. A very large political corruption has been cut off, and I thank you very much for that. I would also like to thank you for securing the World Youth Day. No one could say thank you, and this security in Krakow was... [[It's not about that.]] [[It's more of a statement.]] ...so that you just lay your hands together and give it a round of applause. So, Minister, very briefly, but really thank you on behalf of all parliamentarians from Małopolska. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u361	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the review of item 17 of the agenda: the Act amending the Animal Protection Act. The text of the Act is contained in print No 331 and the Commission's reports In the letters No 331 A and 331 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Przemysław Błaszczyk, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u362	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. High Senate! The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development at its meeting on 23 November considered the Law amending the Animal Protection Act. This law was adopted by the Sejm on 15 November. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is very short, but it is important for local governments to prevent the homeless of animals. To date, the local authorities' own records and tasks in this area have focused only on the protection of homeless animals and on the care of them. The proposed amendment will allow local authorities to finance measures to prevent the homelessness of animals, i.e. actions of various kinds or promotional tasks, to support that animals are not abandoned. Another provision concerns the possibility for local governments to finance their own castration and sterilization of animals with owners. To date, this possibility existed only when the animals were in the hostel, i.e. they were the property of the municipality. Those two records didn't cause much discussion. The change will improve the situation because local governments today face a huge problem of animal homelessness, the maintenance of these animals and the financing of shelters. This number continues to grow despite many adoptions and the willingness of citizens to accept animals. However, their homelessness is so great that it is a huge financial problem for municipalities. It is also a social problem, because more and more shelters are being created, and it is a very large hostel. It is also a problem for the local community, because it does not always agree to the creation of such objects. On behalf of the committee, I request the adoption of a law with a minor, detailed amendment. Thank you, Mrs. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u363	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u364	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration gave its opinion on this law yesterday and, like the Committee on Agriculture, introduced one minor amendment to it, which does not change anything in this law, but only improves it stylistically. As the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture said, this is a law that meets the expectations of people who respect and love animals. The law gives the municipality the opportunity not only to catch homeless animals or build shelters, but also to prevent this homelessness. In the programme to prevent and provide care for the homeless animals, the municipality is given the opportunity No obligation, no obligation to prevent this homelessness. It is permitted to sterilize or castrate animals in the municipality, with full respect, of course, of the rights of the owners of animals or other persons under whose care they remain. The Senators of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration have accepted these provisions and amendments to the existing Animal Protection Act. The Commission proposes that the contested law be adopted with the minor amendment referred to by the rapporteur of the agricultural committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u365	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? There you go, Mr. Senator. Which one of you is that gonna be the question? [[Both of you.]] Both of you. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u366	If you can't handle the problems of my question, I'm gonna ask you to pass the questions on to the minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the thing that both committees have dealt with is very important. This is a matter that the country lives on. Homelessness is sometimes unintentional, but now, in view of the large number of homeless pets that exist in Poland, there is a problem of their metrics. [[What? Metrics?]] [[Chips.]] Here's my question. Is it the intention of the state, a widely understood parliament, but also of the government, to introduce an obligation of metrication, for example, so that there is no such homelessness? Too much, especially the one the professor mentioned, Senator Rotnicka. [[May I?]] No, I'm not done. [[Uh-huh.]] The senator said that animals can't be left unattended, but they can't be allowed to be thrown out on the pavement and dumped into communities or communities. So my question is that it's a question of plans for metrics.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u367	Thank you, Senator. Please, senator or senator? [[I'm gonna cut it short.]] [[You're welcome.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u368	We did not talk about this at the committee meeting, but I can say that if the municipality can prevent it, it is my understanding that it will also be able to finance this chiping or somehow encourage the inhabitants of its local government to do this task. This bill gives you the opportunity to finance it. Earlier, as far as I know, that wasn't a possibility.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u369	Thank you very much. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u370	If I have to add something, I will say that we did not talk about this matter at the meeting of the local council, but if the problem for the owner of the animal is the lack of money, he does not chip because there is no money, then he can bring it to the commune and commune to meet such a request.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u371	Thank you very much. I don't see any more questions to be asked. The draft law was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? We have Minister Ryszard Zarudzki with us. [[No, there's no minister...]] Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u372	I'm here, I'm here. Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Maybe I can answer the senator's question directly. According to the Act, the municipality council sets out an annual animal care programme in which it presents a catalogue of activities. If he puts metrics in this program, it will be feasible. It's got to be in the animal care program. It's such a direct reference. And a few words about the government's position in the parliamentary bill amending the Animal Protection Act. The Parliamentary bill amending the Animal Protection Act, print No 897, amends the Animal Protection Act of 21 August 1997. Among these changes, the Animal Protection Act contains 3 main elements. One change is to give the rules of the new wording in connection with the extension of the community's own tasks, in order to prevent the homelessness of animals. The second is to give a new sound to the currently closed catalogue of activities set out in the annual programme for the care of homeless animals adopted by the municipal council and to prevent the homelessness of animals. There is another change which, as part of the programme adopted by the municipality council, I stress the programme adopted, will allow castration and sterilization of animals with owners or carers. The draft law also provides for the addition of existing rules to enable, as was stressed, municipalities to adopt resolutions containing a programme for the care of homeless animals and to prevent homelessness, which will be adapted to local needs and funding opportunities for municipalities. The opening of the catalogue of activities contained in the programme will allow municipalities to undertake activities other than those mentioned in the catalogue if these activities contribute to reducing the homelessness of animals. In addition, it will allow the inclusion of plans for sterilization and castration of dogs and cats outside shelters in the approved programmes. The consistent implementation of such plans will help to reduce the uncontrolled growth of the population of cats and dogs. As a representative of the management of the Ministry, I would like to say that we consider it a legitimate need to ensure better protection of animals, including the possibility for municipalities to take effective measures to reduce the number of homeless animals. The government has a positive opinion on the parliamentary bill amending the Animal Protection Act; print No 897. Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u373	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Rulewski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u374	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I don't feel homeless after your statement, but I'm unhappy because the problem of chipping, messing isn't the problem. Only one, even the best, of the commune, because then these bad animal keepers or their owners will take them to the other commune. So a nationwide initiative is required, and this is already a government domain and, of course, involves costs for the government; I understand that. So I ask this question: when will this be regulated on a national scale? Not that you're dropping off to municipalities that I don't hesitate to say. They're doing just fine. But when will the government deal with this problem?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u375	Mr. Senator, thank you very much for this question. Let me put it this way: we walk in stages, solve problems. If I remember correctly, these possibilities have been for the last 8 years; problems have also not been solved, and we are solving them gradually. If it's necessary to take further action on a national scale... We start with the municipality and will listen carefully to whether we will need stronger support for this solution. That's my answer. Of course, I humbly accept your attention to further proceding, but in this particular situation the legal situation is as it is. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u376	Thank you very much, Minister. Would anyone else like to ask a question? I don't see any volunteers. Minister, thank you very much. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ryszard Zarudzki: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on the Promotion of Rural Development with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme for the years 2014 to 2020 and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 342 and the committee report In print No 342 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u377	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development a report on the law adopted by the Sejm on 29 November amending the Law on the Promotion of Rural Development with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme 2014 Today we have considered all the comments that were made during the committee's work. The Commission requests the adoption of an amendment act. There's three corrections. There is one substantive amendment, which concerns the fact that the tasks previously carried out by the Agricultural Market Agency in previous years will now be taken over by the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. The amendment was supported by the government and, as I understand it, received approval. There are also two legislative amendments proposed by the Legislative Office. Particularly important is the third amendment, which indicates that a regulation will be issued, but not for more than 6 months from the date of entry into force of the Act... There was no such deadline, and the government also took this into account and proposes that the amendment be adopted so that the so-called one. To fill in the gap so that there is no possibility that the regulation will be issued in a year, maybe in two years' time... Although you can write it down for two years, but here's a proposal that says six months. I therefore propose that these amendments be voted on. On behalf of the committee, please support the entire bill. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u378	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, Senator rapporteur. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. We have Minister Ryszard Zarudzki with us. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration? You're welcome. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u379	Welcome back. Senator! High Senate! Shortly, only the most important things. After a year, during our annual lives... There is a need for the Ministry of Agriculture to organise and improve legislation relating to the implementation of the Funds; in this case, it is the European Fund for Agriculture and Rural Development. To put it simply, this is the basic implementing act for the implementation of the Rural Development Programme under the common agricultural policy, the second pillar of the 2014-2020 RDP. That's one thing. Secondly, the aim is to harmonise the rules due to the similar nature of the instruments implemented. The amendments are also related to the implementation of the provisions adopted by the Council of Ministers It's important. As part of the efficiency plan, speed up the implementation of the programme under the Partnership Agreement 2014.2020. As far as partnership agreements are concerned, we are talking not only about the common agricultural policy but also about cohesion policy. We want it to be more efficient together. There will be no more money, but you can spend it better and more meaningfully. These changes relate in particular to several elements. The first such change concerns the promotion and more efficient functioning of agricultural advice and the transfer of funds under the Rural Development Programme for agricultural advice. This is very important. This will be followed by 3 regulations that will support this from EU funds. The second amendment concerns the possibility of granting aid for operations in the event of exhaustion. In the case of the Leader approach, the Leader method during this new period we are talking about local development led by the RLKS community. The aim is to ensure that these measures are provided in certain specific situations. Another issue concerns organisational matters related to the functioning of the restructuring agency, i.e. two very important and socially expected actions, i.e. the restructuring of small farms and a young farmer. It will be organized not in the offices of the county agencies, but will be considered in the headquarters. And one more thing. The question of compliance with the principles of competitiveness is the procedure for selecting economic operators in accordance with the rules currently laid down in the aid agreements. The creation of a web portal and there will be indirect provisions concerning the selection of offers, offers. Internet portal... This is imposed, as a result of the European Union's controls, certain solutions are imposed, which we must apply. Is this a simplification? Well, I'd argue with that, but in this case, we don't have a choice, because either there's going to be a recovery by the Commission, or that's what we're putting in place. We're a little up against the wall here, so we're gonna bring it in. Allowance was made by... It is also about the support of advisers and such specializations for advisers, in particular three, which will be launched at the statutory level. This is mainly about entrepreneurship, ecology and the economics of agriculture. Other Changes This also applies to the ordering of the legal title. It's about these... Previously, there were statutory invading safeguards so that it wouldn't be, and now we're talking about having a legal title on 31 May. It's about getting it organized. Hence this legal title to the area concerned, to the agricultural area. I traded... It was a few months' work. What doesn't work, what can be improved, has been analyzed on an ongoing basis. Publishing more effective funds... I've listed a few in these blocks. If we had to discuss this in detail, There is no need to do so, it is justified in the law described in the provisions of individual paragraphs and paragraphs. And thank you also for the amendment introduced today, which results from the current process. The Ministry is working so intensively that in the course of legislation new laws are being created, requiring changes in those laws that we process. So we don't spare ourselves, we work. And Minister Jurgiel said we're not gonna drop the pace this year. So, all the more reason for us to do what we are talking about. Thank you so much for your time and listening to the information.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u380	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. The senators want to ask questions. The first question you ask is Senator Waldemar Sługocki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u381	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I have a question. You're drawing a very optimistic future, and I'm very happy for you. However, I would like to add to this optimism a spoon to the floor, but I think it is in a responsible way. Namely I do not understand, Minister, this change related to the transfer of agricultural advisory centres under the competence of government administration in the voivodship, i.e. voivodships. Because so far, the idea... [[Not in this bill...]] Yeah, okay, but we're talking about efficiency. Listen, Mr. Senator. There will be a conclusion in a moment, and you will see that it is the bill. So give me a chance. We are talking about the efficiency of using European money, you are talking about the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development. And as long as today the hosts of regional operational programmes, two funds, as you know perfectly well, the European Regional Development Fund and the European Social Fund, are the regional governments... And as well as in the previous term of government, in the previous four years, this could have happened. But it didn't happen. To also regionalise part of the Rural Development Programme. It was not enough that this did not happen in the previous term and that the programme was still centralised, that you went further into the centralization process, moving these competences to the voivodeship. My question is therefore: how can we build complementarity between the two funds and the regional operational programme and the Rural Development Programme? Wouldn't it be good that it was, so to speak, accumulated in one hand, in the hands of the local government of the voivodship level? And the complementarity... Because, as you know perfectly well, the measures mentioned in this perspective for the common agricultural policy, especially for the second pillar, i.e. rural development, are slightly smaller than the previous ones. But this is due to a certain logic, including the actions carried out by the European Commission. [[Mr. Senator, it's been a minute.]] I'll be right with you. Excuse me, I'll be right with you. [[You're welcome.]] And it would be good, at least at national, Polish level, to take such actions that will objectively and effectively increase the impact of European money rather than centralise it. We have two managers. The question is how these actors communicate with each other and take complementary action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u382	Thank you very much. You're still Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. Please, Senator, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u383	Ms Marshal, High Izbo, Minister, which gave rise to the extension of the scope of the article. Two? I mean, it's about increasing the service capacity... It refers to bank accounts and bank accounts in cooperative savings and credit banks. And so far, there have been bank accounts. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ryszard Zarudzki: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u384	Minister, Senator Jan Rulewski will ask you a question. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ryszard Zarudzki: Good.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u385	Will these changes affect the revival or stimulation of local water companies at all, especially in the countryside, in order to solve the problem that exists in Poland, that if there is drought, there is no water, and if there are rains, it is excess water?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u386	Thank you so much for these questions. As for... well, in particular, I would like to refer here to the first questions in order. Mr. Senator, thank you very much. I'll finally be able to tell you how to build... I'll start from the end: complementarity. Well, it wasn't done. I'm a pain in the ass. Local development led by the community... I'm a pain in the ass. In fact, the drama of the previous situation... Check it out, there are experts here who can confirm all of this. It was possible and we tried to do something, we did everything we could. I myself participated in this process so that cohesion policy could be combined with the common agricultural policy. We failed because of the resistance of the previous ruling crew. I already explain: there are 16 voivodships and only 2 voivodships have been tried. I know what an effort all the crews have made... [[Kujawsko-Pomorskie.]] It is Kujawsko-Pomorskie and Podlaskie, where as part of local development led by the community... Special initiatives across Europe, where you can combine... This is about the financing of agriculture and rural areas by local action groups after they have developed local development strategies, rural funding and attention The cities of the European Social Fund and the European Regional Development Fund. We could have a completely different situation, a completely different context for the functioning of the common agricultural policy. The loss of the CAP would not be so shocking. And this handover... There was 5.2 billion to be spent and that money went into some urban polarizing and diffusion functions. Kujawsko-Pomorskie allocated EUR 90 million to the ESF and the European Regional Development Fund and allocated it Mr. Senator, I'm asking you to confirm. For local groups. Of course, cities can use it, too, and that's okay. There is also Podlasie, which has fewer cities and where we are talking about EUR 60 million. So here we have PLN 240 million for the voivodship, and there we have PLN 360 million. Couldn't it be in the other 14 voivodships? Leader approach. We have a conference tomorrow. We will meet and try as part of a responsible development strategy, within the RLKS to organize further support. We know we can't do everything. The senator has also learned various stories about the development of this method. We really want to bring it in. This is still a flagship solution that has been suspended for the programming period. After the new period... We'll be debating tomorrow. In Rawa Mazowiecka 300, 400 people meet. We'll also talk about the future. I regret, I regret, because it is a real drama for rural development. We can't finance it as it was... all the doors were open, but it was impossible because of resistance and firmness. I think Senator Rulewski could confirm that. [[Yes.]] Thank you so much for asking me about ODR. Of course, there was such a social expectation here. That's one thing. Second, Mr. Senator, I've done an analysis. Too bad I didn't bring it today, but I'm at my disposal. I can give it to you tomorrow... We're not here tomorrow, we're in Rawa, but I'll deliver it to you. [[How about in writing, Minister?]] [[You're welcome.]] I will submit this in writing with a request for assistance and support, especially in the framework of the work on the budget law. Let me ask you this: do you know how many advisors and specialists in advisory centers earn up to PLN 2,000? I'll tell you, 40%. I won't keep you in suspense. Do you know how many advisors and specialists in advisory centers earn up to PLN 2.5,000? I ran an analysis on all the centers. I can do it now, I can't do it before. Do you know? That's 80%. What am I supposed to say? Do you know how many funds have not been transferred to the Rural Development Programme in 2007 and 2013? I'll give it to you in writing. [[You're welcome.]] 90% That's 325 million. Let me repeat: 325 million. I didn't believe it when I saw it. I asked for data for 2007... I asked for the data on 31st... we have Director Nieć of the Rural Development Department with us and he can confirm it all. How did you decide and where is the money? It's brought about a deterioration of the whole situation. This is another case. I'll give you that information, too. There were several possibilities to transfer funds to counseling. In other departments, it was forty-50... they were going into other activities. I know what it's for. We can recreate it. What was I supposed to do? When we asked social advice from farmers for an opinion, some of these advices said that she did not want directors. They've been... We were changing directors. More: Do you know that there are cases in the D.A.'s office? Because we don't announce it, we work. What was done in some agricultural advisory centers? It's an estate sale. The marshal turned to... In three voivodships, the marshal said, "Give the estate and I'll sell it." And there's a case at the D.A.'s office. Today I decreed... I'm going to the minister... I don't know if I can share it with you. I'd be happy to hand over this material to you on how we're going to recover the assets of the farm advisory centers. I think it's enough because I've been emotionally involved for seven years. One thing I've committed myself to to my advisors... They're still... That's why the budget bill is so important and it's important to do this. That bill we're working on today also applies to this case. The point is to mobilise the money from the Rural Development Programme as soon as possible to support the situation that is. Of course the budget is like this. After that, counseling centers earn money. But the facts I've presented are undeniable. And if there's a case, if there's a transfer of counseling centers, then there are only selected elements that are empirically proven, written. And I'd be happy to give it to the senator in writing. I promise. As far as water companies are concerned... Thank you very much, Mr. Senator. The problem is that this is now the biggest threat to the implementation of the Rural Development Programme. So one of the actions is to support water companies, which is what? Unaccepted in the previous period of water law. Now we're two and three, so that this water law... I know there's a lot of problems out there, but not admitting and delaying the application of water law causes... One of the serious threats we have is not accepting the law. We cannot start water companies at the level of the municipality and support them. It's about some changes and functioning. It's just today that this action seems to be at stake, Mr. Director, in terms of implementation. [[Director of Rural Development Department in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Dariusz Nieć: Frozen.]] It's frozen because of the non-implementation of water law. And we work, I don't know how many hours till night. I spoke to Minister Kowalczyk. I'm trying to take that into account, but it can't be done right away, because it's a big responsibility. So water companies, yes, the problem is known. Meliorations... This retention is small in the strategy of responsible development. And it's like this. And then... [[Director of Rural Development Department at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Dariusz Nieć: SKOK Account.]] Why? [[Director of the Rural Development Department in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Dariusz Nieć: Because not all farmers have bank accounts.]] I'm asking the head of the department, Mr. Niecia, for detailed information. It's not everything the Minister needs to know. You're welcome, Mrs. Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u387	There you go. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ryszard Zarudzki: Your Marshal Allows?]] Of course, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u388	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This is due to the possibility of an alternative transfer of funds, among others. For example from direct payments, to SKOK accounts. Not all farmers have bank accounts, some have bank accounts in SKOK. It is as if the regulation of certain issues relating to equal access and the possibility of transferring funds to farmers' accounts, i.e. beneficiaries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u389	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u390	I'm sorry about the emotion, but it's actually affected two key issues that haven't been solved in that time, and they're still up-to-date and relevant. Once again, now calmer: both pillar II and compatibility Together, the common agricultural policy, cohesion policy and ESF, the European Fund It's an open job. We are reviewing the multiannual financial plan. I'm not gonna mention counseling centers because we're in the middle of... Since August 20, when we are subject to it, we are still working very hard today. And that's how it is. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Me too. May I? I'm sorry.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u391	You're welcome, Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u392	Thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much for the declaration and I will be expecting information in writing. I'm sorry to say that. I'm very pleased with your enthusiasm. It's positive. Absolutely not. Mr. Minister, if you'll excuse me. With such a thesis that the transfer of ODRs under the supervision of voivodships, or government administration in the field, will make these projects actually complementary. You're talking about one element, which is local action groups. In fact, however, the main money for rural development is located in regional operational programmes. Let me remind you that, in this perspective, as never before, Minister, EUR 31 billion is being implemented under regional operational programmes. There are 51 billion 500 million. 31 billion 300 million precisely under regional operational programmes, and the remainder under horizontal plus programmes, of course, the CAP and the Rural Development Programme. And that's where you need to look for this complementarity. If I could just... I hope so. 'Cause I see you understand absolutely... And that is why I am hopeful and optimistic that in the next moment, as part of the next step, when you are working on a new perspective, which is after 2020, however, we will be able to reflect on the possibility of decentralising the Rural Development Programme in the next perspective, in its successor de facto. In my view, the error was made at the level of the European Commission, building a perspective for the period 2000 to 2006, when the European Agricultural Guidance and Guarantee Fund and the Financial Instrument for Fisheries Guidance were shifted from regional policy to the common agricultural policy and divisions were built. But not only because you're talking about a limited strategy... [[Question, Senator, question.]] ...well, not limited, but responsible development... I think that also the concept of spatial development of the country, and the long-term strategy, and the medium-term development strategy of Poland with a time horizon up to 2020 ensure this complementarity. And the decision to move the ODRs... [[Time...]] I'm almost done, Mrs. Marshal, I'm sorry. ... It's not good at all. Thank you. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ryszard Zarudzki: I would like to reply. May I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u393	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u394	I appreciate what you're saying, Senator. But these are two things. As far as regional operational programmes are concerned, the selection criteria and the transfer of funds through the selection criteria... We work in monitoring committees with our representatives, government representatives, to make these criteria effective, because here it is very important to redirect funds to rural areas. We can talk about it a lot, it's very important, we do it and we're successful. As far as regionalisation is concerned, Senator, there are different approaches here. I'm just going to say this: remember that there's something like delegated tasks in the RDP today. Delegated tasks, i.e. part of the tasks is carried out by local authorities These are roads, water and sewage cases, village renewal, land consolidation... [[Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, ……]] It's us... That's what we're talking about. And now I'm paying attention... Of course, money is always not enough. But I'll tell you another thing. I'll get your attention. For what? On the local criteria, on the fact that the criteria... Because: there are national, better or worse criteria, but there are also regional criteria affected by local governments. And at this stage... Well, you have to go step by step. Regional criteria up to 40% weight. It's a lot, it's important. And it's you guys... Because what do local governments say when they come? It wasn't us. It was you in the government who approved it. Like us? Regional criteria? He's a marshal! And here we can sort of go back to our responsibility downstairs. So calmly, gradually, you can go through this process. As of today, it seems that the security features and those relating to the regionalisation of the RDPs, due to the criteria, are quite strong for our capabilities. And let's stick to that so we don't fire the baby with the bath. [[But you can promise, Minister, that you will be decentralized...]] [[Sir...]] [[I'm sorry, but the question is, Mrs. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u395	But that's polemic, not a question. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ryszard Zarudzki: Thank you very much.]] Minister, thank you very much. I would like to inform you that a government representative has undertaken to provide written answers to the questions asked by Senator Waldemar Sługocki. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: the Act on the Declaration of the Statute of the International Center for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology, drawn up in Madrid on 13 September 1983. The text of the Act is contained in print No 333 and the Commission's reports In prints No 333 A and No 333 B. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Thomas Grodzki, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u396	Thank you very much, Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Dear guests! This topic has become a law, although it is in some sense specific, but it is because the legislative path... the establishment of Poland's participation in the International Center for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology was also done by law. I will remind you that the Center for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology is an international organisation which was established in Madrid in 1983 and Poland ratified the statute of this organisation in 1996. And in the initial period, when the Polish Academy of Sciences conducted genetic and molecular biology studies, participation in this organization could be considered beneficial. But in recent years... It's like he used this organization a little bit, and there were other things, like... European Molecular Biology Organisation, Poland took part in the work of the European Molecular Biology Laboratory, while the growing membership fee of nearly $100,000 per year was higher than the grants received by Polish researchers at the International Center for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology. Therefore, in agreement with the Polish Academy of Sciences, with the Ministry of Science it was decided to withdraw Poland from this organization. The statement, termination shall be of an annual nature and shall be made by the President of the Republic. Therefore, the law which was passed by the Sejm on 16 November, and is currently being passed with us... If we authorize the President to terminate Poland's participation in this organization, and it must be in the form of a notification submitted to the UN Secretary-General who exercises formal supervision, we will still pay a contribution in 2017, but Poland will not pay this contribution since 2018. This is not to the detriment of Polish scientists, because, as I say, the organization was established in 1983, well, as if the tooth of time bit it and there were completely different forms of funding of science in the field of molecular biology and genetic engineering. So that Poland's further participation in this work was no longer important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u397	Thank you very much. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, Senator Piotr Wach, to present a report to the committee. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u398	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The committee on this matter was meeting this morning. I would like to say that the previous report was to a large extent exhaustive, and I will only possibly complement it. The termination of the statute is equivalent to the withdrawal from the organization, i.e. the International Center for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology. With us this case was presented by Professor Elżbieta Frąckowiak, Vice President of the Polish Academy of Sciences. In fact, at the initiative of the Polish Academy of Sciences this withdrawal takes place, but it requires, as was previously said, a statutory road, a bill of expression and the signature of the President under this law. The Commission was also interested in substantive rights, so there was a discussion. It was justified that our participation in this International Center for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology no longer fulfils its tasks. In fact, here mostly attention was paid to the fact that accession to this centre 20 years ago was connected among others. with the possibility of testing using better apparatus, with deficiencies occurring in us. Today the situation has changed and therefore this termination makes sense, especially since, as has been said here, the contribution is quite significant, in the order of $100,000 a year. So that after this discussion, the committee recommends that the Senate adopt a law without amendment. The vote was positive, only one senator abstained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u399	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of you like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Science and Higher Education were authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Minister Marek Ziółkowski from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is with us today. Would the Minister like to speak? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Marek Ziółkowski: No, thank you.]] Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Are there any such questions? I can't see. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I'm informing you that... [[Senator Wind.]] You're welcome, Senator Kazimierz Wind.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u400	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I was asked by the Minister, Prof. Bobka, who represented the government at the meeting of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport on this matter, to justify his absence, his sudden departure from Warsaw, of course, caused that he could not be here with us. He committed that if there were any questions to him, he could answer in writing. I understand the questions weren't really there. I would also like to add that the discussion in the Committee on Science, Education and Sport was much broader, not just concerning the provisions that are in this law. At the meeting you were present Vice President of the Polish Academy of Sciences, Professor Elżbieta Frąckowiak, and said the following thing: Polish Academy of Sciences pays various international contributions, in total about PLN 1 million and this one contribution That's almost half of it, because $100,000 is $400,000. And indeed there is a lack of interest among Polish scientists in this direction of carrying out research, i.e. using this formula of conducting research. She also emphasized that at the moment a great deal, so to speak, is the activity of African scientists. It is noted here that Bulgaria, Croatia, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Hungary and Italy are among the European Union's parties to the statute outside Poland, i.e. the European sub-region where we are and with which we work intensively. Nevertheless, these European structures... Because before me, the professor said that Poland has a very good equipment security at the moment, but the main international activity is carried out within the framework of European structures, i.e. both bilateral cooperation between centres and within European organisations that deal with these issues. That is why this vote was so clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u401	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much, Minister. Let's hear the news.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u402	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Today, 30 November 2016, a joint meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and the Legislative Committee will be held in room 182 at 7 p.m. The joint meeting of the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the review of the Law on amending the Law on the Functioning of Coal Mining and some other laws will take place today, 30 November, at 7.00 p.m. in room 217. The meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the review of the Act amending the Energy Law and some other laws will take place today at 19.45 in room 217. The meeting of the National Defence Commission on the examination of the applications submitted at the 30th Senate meeting to the Act amending the Act on the universal obligation to defend the Republic of Poland and certain other laws, print No 337, will take place tomorrow, 1 December 2016, at 8.15 a.m. in room No 179. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances on the examination of requests submitted at the 30th Senate meeting to the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2017, Senate printing No 317, will take place tomorrow, 1 December 2016, at 8.15 p.m. in room No 217. The joint meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad on the examination of requests submitted to the Eastern Cross Act will take place on 1 December 2016 at 8.30 a.m. in room 182. The joint meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the resolution of the Act against unfair exploitation of contract advantages in the marketing of agricultural and food products will take place tomorrow, 1 December, at 8.30 a.m. in room 217. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-30-senat-31-3.u403	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby announce a recess until 9 a.m. tomorrow. Once the session is resumed, the vote will be held and then we will proceed with the agenda item on the Act amending the Social Insurance Fund Pension Act and some other laws. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 19 minutes 01]]
