ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u1	I open the 11th session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I appoint Senator Marek Pęk and Senator Jerzy Wcisła to be the secretaries of the sitting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Marek Pęk. I ask the senators of the secretaries to take their seats... Oh, you guys are sitting down. Dear Senators, I would like to welcome the President of the Bundesrat of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Prime Minister of the Free Country of Saxony, Mr Stanislaw Tillich and his accompanying delegation. [[Applause]] I very much welcome your ambassador as well. Mr Stanislaw Tillich makes an official visit to Warsaw to my invitation. Before the meeting began, we had an interesting conversation. Today, Mr President will still hold a number of official meetings, including: with President Andrzej Duda, Marshal of the Sejm, Mr Mark Kuchcinski, and Prime Minister Beata Szydło. In the absence of objections to the minutes of the sixth and seventh meetings, I state that the minutes of these meetings have been adopted. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the eighth Senate meeting in accordance with the Senate Rules of Procedure are prepared to be made available to the senators. If none of your senators raise any objections to it, it will be adopted at the next Senate meeting. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose that the item be deleted from the agenda: information for the Sejm and Senate of the Republic of Poland about the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period of July On December 2015 ( Luxembourg Presidency of the Council of the European Union) and consideration of this information at the next Senate meeting. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. I propose supplementing the agenda with points: second reading of the draft resolution on the occasion of the 35th anniversary The Independent Student Association and consider it as point one; second reading of the draft law amending the Law on Public Benefit and Volunteering and consider it as point five. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? No. I state that the Senate approved the agenda for the 11th Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term. I would like to inform you that we will begin tomorrow at 9 a.m. with the consideration of items 3rd and 4th agenda. On Friday we will start at 10.00 from the second reading of the draft resolution on the establishment of 2016 by the Year of Polish-Hungarian Solidarity. If no legislative proposals are tabled, the vote on this issue will be held immediately after consideration of this point. I would like to inform you that today was the meeting of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Local Government and State Administration on the draft law on the prohibition of the promotion of communism or other totalitarian system by the names of buildings, objects and public utility devices. At the time of preparation of the report on this issue, I will also propose that the agenda be supplemented by this item. I would like to inform you that in case of failure to submit legislative proposals to the draft resolution on the occasion of the 35th anniversary The Independent Student Association will vote on this matter immediately after consideration of this point. I would like to inform you that the remaining votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Mr. and Mrs. Senators, I am adjourning for a moment because Mr. President of the Bundesrat, Mr. Stanislaw Tillich, is leaving the Senate and is going to another official meeting. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause]] We proceed to the first item of the agenda: second reading of the draft resolution on the occasion of the 35th anniversary The Independent Student Association. I would remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print 80, and the committee's report In print No 80 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Bogdan Klich, to present the committee's report on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Every generation has its own star time. For the greater part of my generation, for the nineteenth time - and 20-year-olds, such a period was 1980 when the structures of the Independent Student Association were formed. It was a time that will always remain in our memory, a time when we had the chance to break out, temporarily, as it turned out, into freedom, dream about independent Poland and start to realize these dreams in practice. Therefore, now that it is the thirty-fifth anniversary, in a sense the round anniversary of registration of the NZS, not the creation of the NZS, but registration The NZS, after a forceful strike by Łódź and after months of pressure on the contemporary power to register the association, as well as the trade union, as well as solidarity, we would like to present this draft resolution to you as a group of applicants. This project was discussed yesterday, its first reading was held at the meeting of the Legislative Commission, it met with consensus and was adopted in consensus. This resolution speaks of four important matters. First of all, it says that registration is not the same as assuming that September 1980 was the most important thing for us, because then we created the foundations of this organization. Secondly, it speaks of the fact that the Senate is aware of this and expresses its respect and appreciation for the people who then formed the basis for the NZS in spite of everything and everything, demanding respect for human rights and citizens, political freedoms, the democratisation of the state, as well as the Polish traditions of independence and patriotism, including the fact that we introduced at that time an important thing that is still in force today, namely the postulate of university autonomy in the future. In this resolution we are also talking about the fact that the NZS was cooperating on an ongoing basis with Solidarity, was not a child of Solidarity, was neither a younger brother nor a younger sister of Solidarity, but was in close connection with what was happening in Poland because of Solidarity. And we're finally talking about the fact that the NZS is right to be. also today, i.e. that the formula of the association has not been exhausted. So we also respect what the NZS is doing today. This is the shape of the resolution discussed here. And on behalf of the committee which unanimously supported this resolution, I would ask the High House to accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u3	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants also authorized Senator Bogdan Klich to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Fedorovich. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u4	Mr. Senator, it was a beautiful time. I was an old man by then... No, I was a 30-year-old actor and I was helping you. But... I mean, couldn't you remind us of the names of people who belonged to the NZS and performed important functions in Poland? [[Why?]] Also politicians... Because a lot of important people came out of this group.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u5	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, there's probably too many names for us to name, not to mention. [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] Especially since this issue has not been discussed in the Legislative Committee. I'll tell you on the side. [[Thank you very much. I'm sorry, maybe I've crossed some boundaries. But many of you deserve the utmost respect. Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u6	Thank you very much, Senator. Please, Senator Żaryn. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u7	I'm just ad vocem. I agree with the senator that he is not here, of course, which reminds us of the entire list of creators of the NZS and show their entire way of life. Undoubtedly, however, it is worth mentioning the first president of the NZS, from Cracow, Mr Jarosław Guze, who is undoubtedly an active man to this day and a man who shows how the ideals of 1980 influenced his own life story. And the other person worth mentioning is also married to Mr.Jarosław Guze. Ms Agnieszka Romaszewska, daughter of Zofia and Zbigniew Romaszewski, again shows a family climate in which young people, who in 1980 caused the road to the creation of the NZS, could be raised. So those two names... I hope the senator's okay.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u8	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u9	In addition, Mr. Marshal, if possible, I will say that there were 3 people from Krakow who were elected to the National Commission at the first meeting: Jarosław Guzy, Jan Rokita and me.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u10	There you go, Senator Rybicki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u11	Mr. Marshal, since the names of the founders have appeared, I would also like to remind one of the founders of the NZS, sleep. Maciej Płażyński, who in Gdansk in September 1980 created the foundations for the Independent Student Association. Thank you. [[Everyone's gonna talk, and I'm gonna say...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u12	Thank you very much. I don't see any more people asking questions. Oh, and Senator Grzegorz Bierecki. You're welcome. That's the rule book, that's the way it is. Please, Mr. Senator, you're asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u13	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I would like to ask not so much how much attention should be paid to the presence in this Chamber of the President of the NZS currently operating, Mr Michał Moskal. Welcome, sir. [[Applause]] Since we mention the names of many deserved people here, we could also add sleep. Przemysław Gosievski, who was wearing with me NZS at the University of Gdansk. But let us also remember... and note the activities of the current NZS, represented by Mr. Michał Moskal here.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u14	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Rulewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u15	It is well known that the activity during the founding period was difficult, but even more difficult or more dangerous was the activity during the martial law period. The question is: is it true that one of the most important parties in Poland is headed by a member, activist and founder of NFZ... NFZS... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: NZS.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u16	Of course, Mr. Senator, it is true that Grzegorz Schetyna has a very serious activity in the NZS in Wrocław, in the underground NZS. It is true that it is the same for many, many others we do not mention here. And it's worth mentioning here, for example, sleep. Radziwił's Cube from the first country of the NZS or Teosia Klincewicz. They're worth remembering. It would also be worth mentioning Mark Jurk. Everyone's worth mentioning, but if we complete the list like this, then... [[Voice from the hall: Thousands of people...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u17	I understand, Senator. Thank you. You're still a marshal for the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u18	I've got attention. As former President The NZS has asked me not to bully this discussion so that it does not turn into such a discussion as it was about Poland's baptism.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u19	That's a good point. Thank you, but it wasn't a question, but attention. As I understand it, people applying for a question and then not asking questions are gone. Thank you very much, Senator. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Dorota Czudowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u20	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's an important resolution. It will pay tribute, not only to the founders of the Independent Student Association, but also to countless students who were not its founders, but if they had not signed and responded to the call of the founders, there would have been no such relationship. I'm going to tell you a lot about myself: I was also a member of the Independent Student Association. [[Applause]] When I joined the union in the spring of 1981, it wasn't that simple. Since many students of the last year of medicine in Bialystok, it took some courage because it was not known whether we would be admitted to final exams. We've been doing some really important things. When there was a famous Bydgoszcz provocation, we experienced everything very much and we even regretted Mr. Wałęsa that this state of emergency had been called off. We were young, we were proud, and we wanted to fight out everything we could fight back at that time. It was really a very professional organization. We thought, as I said, we were spread out on the possibility of a strike. I remember I was supposed to have a doctor's appointment. Or rather pseudoplekaristic, because I haven't been a doctor yet. In the Białystok Fasts, which are no longer there today. It's a good thing there's gonna be a resolution. With this resolution we thank and pay tribute to the founders and all students, present and present, for the fact that we still have an influence on Poland as a democratic country. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u21	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. We are voting on a resolution on the occasion of the 35th anniversary. The Independent Student Association. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who abstained from voting? Please report the results. 64 senators voted, all of them. Okay, okay, [[Voting No 1]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the 35th anniversary The Independent Student Association. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. We proceed with the second agenda: the 2016 budget law. The Senate Marshal sent the Budget Act to the Senate Committee. After considering the relevant budgetary parts, the Senate committees forwarded their opinions to the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, which produced a report on this matter on the basis of which. The text of the Act is contained in print No 76 and the report of the Commission In print No 76 A. I would ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u22	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I have the honour to present the position of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances on the 2016 Budget Act contained in the committee's report, Senate printing No 76 A. The Commission proposes to the High House that the 2016 budget law be adopted with the amendments set out in the attached draft resolution of the Senate. During the meeting, minority proposals were also submitted, which will be presented to Senator Kazimierz Klein. The amendments proposed by the committee are the result of the work of the various Senate committees which, at their meetings on 4 and 5 and 9 February, examined the revenue and expenditure plans for the parts of the budgetary law allocated to them. On 10 February, the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances heard the opinion of the Senate committees on the 2016 Budget Act. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, before we begin a detailed discussion of the work on the Law, I will give you some general information related to the macroeconomic assumptions of the Act. The 2016 budget was prepared by the government in accordance with the principles of the Public Finance Act. The maximum government budget deficit was set at PLN 54 billion 740 million. The proposed revenue of the state budget in 2016 will amount to 313 billion 800 million, representing 109.4% planned implementation in 2015. In 2016, for the first time, revenues from new taxes are forecasted: tax on certain financial institutions and tax on large-area shops. In addition, the level of revenue of the State budget in 2016 will be positively affected by the one-off charges resulting from the revenues declared by the auction participants for the 700 MHz and 2600 MHz frequency reservations of PLN 9 billion 233 million 270 thousand. The increase in debt at the end of the year must not exceed 110 billion, and guarantees and guarantees may be granted by the State Treasury up to PLN 200 billion. The inflation rate is forecast at 1.7% in 2016. After all, the budget is a tool for implementing the government plan, so now a few words about the most important tasks that this budget will serve. The most important task of this budget is to fund the 500+ family programme as the top priority of this government. This programme is an instrument in the field of family policies, but it is also a tool that will increase household disposable income, thus increasing household financial liquidity and increasing consumption, as well as increasing domestic demand, which shapes the majority of our gross domestic product. This programme is therefore not only a pro-family policy tool but also a tool that significantly affects the size of our gross domestic product. About PLN 16 billion is earmarked for this in the budget. It's a very important position. The second action that is financed in this budget is the introduction of free medicines for people who are over seventy-five years of age. This is another action announced by the Government of Law and Justice. The budget shall contain the appropriate appropriations for the start of the implementation of this programme. Finally, important and good news: an increase of over PLN 2 billion in wages for labour groups, which since 2010 have been covered by the so-called. freezing wages. That's good news for budget workers. The budget will also include one-off cash allowances for some pensioners, people receiving pre-retirement benefits, benefits, bridge pensions or teacher compensatory benefits. The total cost of the payments provided for in the budget is PLN 1 billion 410 million. An important budget item is the financing of restructuring tasks in the hard coal mining sector; the budget allocation for this is almost PLN 1 billion. There will also be a real increase in national defence expenditure up to 2%; that will be nearly PLN 3 billion more compared to implementation in 2015. The budget also provides for measures to increase expenditure on family benefits, verification of family benefits, increase of the amount of income criteria entitled to family benefits, to implement an amendment to the Family Benefits Act concerning the granting of parental benefit of PLN 1 000 to persons not entitled to maternity benefits. The list of tasks to be financed in this budget includes 28 programmes which will receive budget support and will thus be implemented. I will mention a few more so that your senators do not tire of this speech, and all the information is in the submission. It is worth noting that there will be funds in this budget for the construction of the Museum of Polish History in Warsaw at the Warsaw Citadel. It will be one of the most modern museums in Poland, very important for cultivating our tradition of independence and freedom. There will also be funds to support the implementation of Polish economic interests in the process of internationalization of Polish companies. These funds will be allocated to the development of promotion, trade and investment departments at Polish embassies. There is also important news for farmers: subsidies for agricultural fuels will be increased. There is PLN 850 million in the budget for this. It will be 5 gr more to a liter of fuel than in 2015. The budget also provides for measures to increase the availability of pre-school education. To finance the tasks of local government units in the field of feeding children, 350 million PLN is allocated. As I said, there are many important programs here. I have chosen completely subjectively those that I feel are particularly important and in line with the programme that the Law and Justice Government presented during the election campaign. There are appropriations in the budget for the implementation of these commitments. Mr Marshal, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, the changes in the budget for the total amount of PLN 20 billion introduced during the parliamentary work, as well as the changes proposed by the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, do not affect the fundamental shape of the budget law. The amendments to the Act introduced by the Sejm concerned, inter alia, the reduction of expenditure on raising the salary fund of the Supreme Audit Chamber, the Ombudsman, the State Labour Inspection and the Senate Office. Here I would like to inform you that in some of these cases, concerning the Supreme Chamber of Control, the State Labour Inspection, and also the Senate Office, I will make amendments during the debate, so they are out of the report; because these issues have not been taken into account during the committee's work. These arrangements took place later. I will present the amendments during the debate and discuss them later in my speech during the debate with the senators. In its report, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes that the High House restore the amount of 2 million 501 000 to the Senate Registry, as requested by the Committee on Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs. The Senators of Bierecki, Klein, Frost made the correct amendment. The source of this amount is the reduction of expenditure in part of the Special Reserves under the heading "Providing residences together with adjustment to the needs of the prosecutor's units and the National Judicial Board. The Commission also accepted the amendment of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, which moves PLN 2 million from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the Ministry of National Education for the purpose of carrying out the task of methodological improvement of teachers working among Poles and Poles abroad. This is the consequence of the return to the Senate of funds for cooperation with Polish organizations and Poles in the East. The amendment is agreed between these resorts. The Commission also accepted an amendment from the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, which does not have any financial implications, but is intended to allow the Agency to draw up short-term loans and modernise agriculture so that funds can be mobilised for farmers until the IT system, i.e. for about 4 months. These are all amendments... These three amendments were adopted by the Committee on Budgets and Finance. High Izbo, in accordance with Article. 73. 3 of the Senate Rules of Procedure I will also present to the senators amendments which the committee has not adopted and I will also give you the reasons for this decision. The Commission did not accept the amendment proposed by the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, which concerned an increase in subsidies and subsidies in part 48 of the "Kosalin deposits' in Chapter 10001 "Governing of hard coal' by 3 million at the expense of the reduction by that amount of part 83 "Description reserves'. 5.Support for restructuring tasks in the hard coal mining sector in the years 2015-2018. It was a proposal to transfer funds from the restructuring programme of the mining operation to the financing of the historic Coal Mine of Guido. As explained by the Ministry of Finance, the provision in part 83 for the financing of restructuring tasks in the hard coal mining sector should not be reduced due to all liabilities to the workers of the mines and the commitments relating to the restructuring of the mines. The Commission also did not accept the amendment proposed by the Rules of Procedure Committee, Ethics and Senators' Affairs concerning the transfer of the amount of PLN 250 000 from the Centre for Social Opinion Research to the Office of the President of the Council of Ministers. The explanation of the government's position as Minister Hanna Majszczyk, here present, showed that no information had been received regarding the need for such a change, especially since the Sejm in its amendment to the budget had already provided the Centre for Social Opinion Research with the amount of 500 thousand, so the Senate would have gone with its amendment completely the other way, receiving half of what CBOS received as a result of the Sejm amendment. Nor did the Commission accept three amendments proposed by the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions. The first amendment was related to a reduction in the Sejm by PLN 1 million of PLN 694 thousand for increases for auxiliary workers in the Supreme Court. The amendment presented by the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions aimed at restoring this amount by increasing the proceeds from the sale of agricultural property of the Treasury. The Commission did not agree to the source of coverage proposed in this amendment, as the higher payment from the sale of the property, which took place in 2015, is expected to complement the financial plan for 2016. In addition, the government intends to ban the sale of land for a certain period of time and the planned revenue for this year may not be achieved in 2016. The second amendment concerned the restoration of PLN 3 million to the Ombudsman. It is also a restoration of the amount reduced in the Sejm at the expense of the expenditure of the current budgetary units of the general budget reserve of the Council of Ministers. The third amendment concerned the restoration to the Constitutional Court of the reduced amount in the Seym, i.e. PLN 1 million 650 thousand, from the same source as in the previous amendment. The Commission did not contest the arguments put forward by the rapporteur of the committee, Senator Jan Rulewski, who pointed out in particular the risks to the proper work of the said institutions and the low level of remuneration of some of the workers employed there. However, the Committee's fundamental doubts raised an indication of the general reserve as a source of cover for the increase in expenditure for these institutions, especially since it is from the general reserve that measures related to the admission to Poland of refugees or support for measures to stop migration from the countries of the Middle East and Africa into Europe are likely to be financed. So, in this reserve, measures should remain for the important task of adopting a group of refugees into our country or supporting measures at European level to stop migration within Europe, including our country. Nor did the Commission accept the amendment proposed by the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration. The amendment concerned a change in the name of the item. 20 in Part 83 of the Special Reserves by adding the National School of Public Administration as the organizer of central training. The Commission has accepted the Minister's explanations indicating that this reserve is created on the basis of the provisions of the Civil Service Act and there is no need to change that name. Nor did the Committee on Budget and Public Finance accept the amendment proposed by the Committee on the Environment. The amendment concerned transfers of appropriations in part 22 of the water economy and changes in part 83 of the reserve. The Commission accepted the explanations made by the Minister who defined the proposed transfers in the Act as premature because they could be financed during the financial year, after appropriate inter-ministerial arrangements, from other budget lines. Mr Marshal, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I kindly ask you senators to accept the amendments proposed by the Committee on Budget and Public Finance to the 2016 Budget Act. Thank you for your attention. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u23	Thank you very much, Mr President. Now I ask the minority rapporteur of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Kazimierz Kleina, to present the proposals of the minority committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u24	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report on behalf of the minority of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, discussing our proposals, which are included in print 76 A. Our amendments, on which we ask the High House to accept them, are minor amendments. They relate to a few things that seem to us, the minorities of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, important. The first amendment is an amendment concerning the budget of the Constitutional Tribunal. In this amendment, we propose to increase the budget of the Constitutional Tribunal by PLN 1 million 650 000 at the expense of the general budget reserve of the Council of Ministers. The second amendment concerns the Ombudsman's budget. We also propose to increase the budget of this office by PLN 3 million 300 thousand, also at the expense of the general budget reserve of the Council of Ministers. It would seem that these two amendments are small, but they are symbolic to us in some sense. As the rapporteur said earlier, Senator Bierecki, the state budget has adopted an increase in salaries for the whole budget area. This salary increase was already proposed by the government by Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz in the draft budget, which was submitted last September. This was, moreover, the implementation of the announcements, as the senators know, for some time now, at least since 2014: as soon as we get to the budgetary balance and the state of public finances will be good enough to raise wages, this increase will be proposed. This has happened in a complex project, as I say, by the previous government, and this project after the changes, the changes proposed by the government by Prime Minister Beata Szydło, today we are discussing, analyzing and adopting. Practically all administrations have received wage increases so that this trend in wage inflation, a fall in the value of wages will slow down and reverse. Of course, in the previous term, in previous years, these wages were, as you senators remember, raised. This was true for the police, and uniformed services, including teachers, academics and higher education, etc., and so on, it could be mentioned for a long time. But in general, wages were generally frozen and this has led in many situations to the fact that wages were actually low. It was only the draft budget law for the current year that provided for a clear regulation of wages, as announced. Unfortunately, several institutions, following the amendments tabled in the Sejm, received significantly smaller amounts. This is strange and not entirely understandable for us, because these changes concern the Constitutional Court, the Ombudsman and certain problems, the perturbation of wages in the Supreme Chamber of Control, but it seems to me that in this case it will be easier and easier to explain that these changes have occurred. And if it weren't for those changes that only concerned these two elected institutions, we'd probably be on the agenda. But it so happens that the Constitutional Tribunal has recently been under a great deal of pressure, so to speak, the criticism of the governing camp and it is not good when it comes to the situation that this office is being deprived of the funds previously foreseen for the change of remuneration. This case also concerns the Ombudsman's budget, the Ombudsman took the floor in a number of political matters because his budget fell to 95% in relation to the previous year. All other offices have budgets clearly above 100% of the previous year. It seems to us that the budget law should not lead to a situation in which some of the public, as well as the employees of these offices, think that these salaries are being reduced simply because they have started to criticize, disagree, recognize that a slightly different opinion on some matters than the ruling majority... In the case of the Constitutional Court, the remuneration of retired judges and family allowances have been clearly reduced. These are the two amendments that concern the budgets of the Constitutional Court and the Ombudsman. Two further amendments to the minority relate to the relationship between government administration, government and local governments. The senators know that we always, also in this House, seek to ensure that spending on the various activities of local governments, especially investment, is not reduced, but higher than in previous years. Unfortunately, in two cases... It goes on, among other things. o appropriations under the special-purpose reserve in the item. The programme for the development of municipal and district road infrastructure for the years 2016 and 2019. The funds earmarked for this purpose, which currently amount to PLN 800 million, have been reduced by PLN 200 million compared to the previous year. This programme for the development of municipal and district road infrastructure is a multi-annual programme for years The budget is to provide for appropriations of one or another amount per year. The amounts for this programme in this year's budget are reduced, and it seems to me that we as senators, who are very much concerned that the infrastructure of local roads in Poland, county and municipal roads should develop, should find resources for these objectives to be achieved. An additional 200 million will restore the amount of funds allocated to this purpose from the central budget last year, but even PLN 1 billion... The senators, who were senators of the previous term, also from the current government camp, said that this PLN 1 billion is not enough, that we need to add much more that we need to invest in local roads, because they are most, so to speak, delayed. It turned out that in the 2016 budget we have funds for this purpose by PLN 200 million less. It is worth recalling the program so called. A sketch artist who was once inspired or invented by Minister Schetin. Later it was worse, sometimes better, but always in the budget of the state the resources for this purpose were. The amounts spent for this purpose have been multiplied by the involvement of municipalities, powiats and voivodships, because the funds from the state budget administered by the voivodship... These measures have had a huge effect. That is why we are asking for the support of this minority amendment. I address here those senators who understand the problems of local communities, including communication problems, the exclusion of communications, etc. After all, we drive along these roads and we know what the situation is. These measures may not save the situation, they will not do everything because it requires consistent work for many years, but this amount should be restored. And the second point, the second issue, which is also related to the maintenance of roads, this time the voivodship. It's a special reserve in pose. 54. We propose to increase the resources provided for in this reserve by PLN 60 million. This reserve from the budget point of view is not large, it will be at the moment, after our increase, probably 270 million PLN. In this proposal, we are restoring the amount to the extent that it was intended for this purpose last year. Of course, there will always be arguments for reducing subsidies to local governments, but I think that in this House, which is so closely associated with local governments, we should rather look for ways to increase these measures. I even hoped that the funds for municipal, district and voivodship roads in the state budget would be increased. This is not the case; there are other goals that need to be financed. I'm even able to understand that, but it seems to me that you have to give at least what was meant for these purposes in the previous year. It is worth restoring these amounts and hence these amendments, minority proposals. The fifth amendment I propose to the High House is due to the Senate's activity in previous years. This amendment concerns the measures provided for in the reserve item. 37; this is the reserve under the name "Finance of Polish-Ukrainian youth cooperation." You senators remember that this was a Senate initiative approved by the government. He started with the reserve to run another important program, but we as senators presented the idea of this idea, showing that we are referring in the creation of this fund to the Polish-Ukrainian cooperation of young people to an idea that was implemented and worked out in the 1950s in the case of France and Germany. After 1990, a similar fund was created between Poland and Germany in order to break down various kinds of barriers, conflicts and lack of understanding between neighbouring nations. These two projects mentioned earlier by me, i.e. the French-German cooperation fund, and then the German-Polish cooperation, have really worked well. In many places, in many schools, young people and students could benefit from these measures in order to implement joint projects on this cooperation and as if to break barriers and mutual prejudices. And that's why this initiative is for us to take another step and open ourselves up to the Ukrainian side. We know how many times there are misunderstandings in relations between our nations, how many things are still unexplained and difficult. We are convinced as the applicant for minorities, as well as as as the Senate, all together that these problems concerning our nations are the easiest to solve, working and working with young people, with the young generation. Therefore, our proposal to increase the amount of PLN 4 million allocated to this purpose in the state budget by PLN 1 million additional funds. We propose that these measures be shifted from reserve to reserve item. 17. These are funds intended to finance the National Election Office. These funds are very high. This is an additional reserve for potential elections in the current year, covering the amount of probably PLN 137 million, so reducing this amount by 1 million will not disturb, it seems, the budget of this institution, all the more so since the elections are not expected this year. There will probably be some individual supplementary elections to the Senate, as was the case in the Podlaskie Voivodeship, there may be some other elections, you know, but I don't think I've heard that larger elections are planned for either the ruling party or possibly other entities that would be interested in having elections or referendums. So this amount could be reduced by such a small amount. This is a very symbolic issue, in my opinion, very important, which also gives our brothers the signal that we are still interested in these matters, that we care very much. Only last year was an intergovernmental agreement signed between the Minister of National Education and the Minister of Sport and Youth of Ukraine in the presence of prime ministers of both governments and this exchange, this cooperation, this fund becomes institutional. The Ukrainian side spends less money on this than the Polish side, but this was also the case in the case of German-Polish cooperation. I think we should understand this and accept it. So that would be minority conclusions. There is another issue that is important to us. We have been wondering and constantly wondering about the source of coverage, because this is always a problem in terms of the functioning of the budget. It seems to me that some things can possibly be modified, because the declaration of the President of the National Bank of Poland has appeared that the contribution to the state budget this year will be clearly, definitely higher than planned in the state budget, because the amount planned in the state budget is PLN 3.2 billion, and this amount may be higher by a few billion, by a good few billion, maybe even by PLN 5 billion from what we expect. If there is no desire, he prefers to finance certain expenses from this amount, it is always a good thing to add this to the budget, to reduce the deficit of the state for the current year, which is always the most important, most expected, perhaps also by us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u25	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Bierecki, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u26	Mr Marshal, using the privilege of being president, I would like to correct some information that may mislead the speakers. Well, I would like to make it clear and clear that, if we are talking about the budget of the Constitutional Court, we are not dealing with a reduction in this budget in relation to the 2015 budget, but with maintaining the same level. So we're not talking about some kind of punishment for the Court's employees, we're talking about maintaining, freezing the budget at the level of 2015. The measures for the Constitutional Tribunal were to increase by 8.6%. this was the proposed increase, the significant increase, but they were put at the disposal of the general courts, where, as I understand it, the Sejm so decided. There are more important needs. Hence the transfer of these funds, not keeping them in the Constitutional Court. I know that during the Parliament's work there was a rather lively discussion about the need to finance a very generous ceremony in the Court's plans, the anniversary celebrations that the Constitutional Tribunal intends to organise. I am convinced, gentlemen, that the celebration of the Constitutional Tribunal has been going on for almost a year, so we do not need to spend extra money on the financing of the anniversary anniversary anniversary party, for which the Court was to allocate about PLN 1 million, if I remember correctly from the parliamentary discussion. So let this amount go to the common courts, because citizens need well-functioning courts. It is the same for the Ombudsman's budget, and it is also a question of freezing funds at the current level. There was a proposal to increase by 18% the Ombudsman's budget in relation to the 2015 budget, but the budget is maintained at the current level. There's no increase. That's what's important. We don't pick anything up, we just don't give anything. There was an idea to hire another nine people at the Ombudsman's Office, among others. Deputy Ombudsman to deal with gender equality issues, etc. During the work, MEPs pointed out that Deputy Prime Minister Gliński had appointed a civil society representative and equal treatment. There is no need to duplicate the functions and expansion of the Ombudsman's Office. The issue of Polish-Ukrainian cooperation. I would like to draw attention to the fact that both the Sejm and the Senate adopted without any change the budget for this fund as proposed by the management of the fund. Thus, the measures planned for 2016 and to finance their activities were not reduced in the Seym or in the Senate. Of course, I would very much like to spend much more money on such an important and noble goal of cooperation between Polish and Ukrainian youth, but I trust the management of the fund that it has well planned its expenditure and that the actions to be undertaken in 2016 will be implemented and the budget resources are sufficient. So there is no need to add money to them, and they did not make such a proposal. So much for my explanation after the speech of my previous speaker.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u27	Thank you very much, Mr President. Senator Czudowska volunteered. Yes? [[I'm talking about explaining, correcting...]] Okay, Senator Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u28	Mr. Marshal, I'm obviously not going into polemics here, although it's a matter of polemics. The budget of the Constitutional Tribunal is 99% the budget of the previous year. I'm just comparing the 2015 budget to the 2016 budget. For the Ombudsman's budget, this is 95% the budget of the previous year. As far as the Constitutional Tribunal is concerned, inheritances also concern salaries which are rigid salaries, as I mentioned. It's all from the budget. In other things... While discussing the budget concerning cooperation between Polish and Ukrainian youth, I said that there is as much there as is planned in the project. However, I was talking about a completely different dimension and purpose of this fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u29	Thank you very much. Senator Chudowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u30	Thank you very much. I have a question for the Senator of the rapporteur. Maybe I'm not that fluent in counting. I'm more of a doctor. Mr Senator, it can be said that the draft budget presented on a global scale is not much different from the one prepared by the previous government. There are a little more millions, but on a general scale it's not that big a sum. Is there a difference in the projected amount of State revenue assumed by the previous and current government?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u31	Of course, there's a difference. After all, there are new revenues. These are revenues from two new taxes, a bank tax and a large-scale store tax. It is also planned to obtain funds from a single event, which is the auction of telecommunications frequencies. This is an important increase. It all serves to cover expenses that are related to the flagship project of this government, which is the 500+ programme. This show... I mentioned his meaning. The adoption of this programme will bring us closer to a more or less European level, to the so-called European average. pro-family expenditure. The average in Europe is just over 2% GDP, with us these expenses, which are intended to support families, will be slightly below 2%. The most abundant family support is provided in the UK, where 4.7% GDP is transferred under such programmes. But we'll only be closer to the average when this program starts. The Polish state in recent years has been one of the least supporting family programmes among the European Union countries, because less than 0.8% We have passed on GDP in all these numerous programmes that have been adopted, which have been numerous but not abundant.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u32	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u33	Mr President, Senator rapporteur, do you not think that the government has overlooked the obligation to carry out two decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal which are due to enter into force this year, because it will be 18 months after they are issued, decisions concerning guardians of adults? In the previous one, in the penultimate budget, the government planned the amount of PLN 400 million, which was not spent due to the lack of legislation. The second question, from a colleague of Mark Lewandowski, spokesperson of the NSZZ.Solidarity. Unfortunately, for the time being, we have a paradox that, on the one hand, the government promises to increase the powers of the State Labour Inspection and, on the other hand, restricts its funding. How would you respond to this charge of an ally and also an ally in the area of labour market rule? The third question is addressed to you as chairman of the budget committee, but at the same time as a member of the Committee on Human Rights, the rule of law and Petitions. While you were working on this budget, on the committee's report, although it was intentional, you said that the amendment of the Human Rights Committee concerning the Supreme Court, the Ombudsman and the Constitutional Court would not be literally implemented, but you did. I understand that on behalf of the whole committee He's gonna lean over her. Unfortunately, I can see that you've been straightened out, which means you've stiffened rather than leaned down.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u34	Thank you very much, Senator. I'm a little stiff by nature, so... But here's the question. As regards the Ombudsman's budgets, the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court, I have indeed sought to examine the reasons for such action by the Sejm as Members have taken. I understood their arguments. I think that those institutions with the budgets they have planned to carry out their functions will be able to carry out their tasks, there is no risk to their functioning. Therefore, in this budget, focused on the specific tasks that I have mentioned in my speech, so many tasks, there are naturally shifts, restrictions in other spheres without damaging the existing functioning of these institutions. With regard to these two rulings of the Constitutional Tribunal, which the senator mentioned, they were not discussed at the committee meeting, so maybe I will pass on this question to the Minister, who will probably have information on this subject and will find an answer to your question more efficiently in the budget. As far as the State Labour Inspection is concerned, as I mentioned in my speech, I will make an appropriate amendment during the debate. I hope that this amendment will be supported by the Senate, so that the State Labour Inspection will have these important tasks imposed on it. ..and new tasks....and new tasks....and new tasks....and She could have done it. This amendment will put a substantial part of the resources at the disposal of this institution, which the State Labour Inspection has been deprived of in the Sejm. So then in my speech I will also ask your senators to support this amendment, and I hope that I also have the Senator's voice here. [[And you convinced me.]] [[Not even two.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u35	Every senator has one vote, Mr. Senator. Mr. Senator Spokesperson.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u36	Thank you very much. I have a question for the Senator of the rapporteur on the section... about agriculture and rural development. The opinion on the Budget Act implemented by the Bureau of Analysis and Documentation shows that in the structure of state budget expenditure for 2016 for the agri-food sector compared to 2015 we have a decrease of 9.61%; we are talking about a real decline. Was this problem even raised during the debate at the meeting of the budgetary committee? I recall the budgetary debates in the past, where the current parliamentary majority, then the opposition, raised these issues very strongly and critically about the funds allocated to agriculture, that these measures were systematically decreasing. In this budget, this decrease is also visible. How do you see this problem here, and was it discussed during the committee meeting? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u37	Thank you so much for that question. This problem was not discussed during the meeting. The only issue concerning agriculture is the amendment recommended by the committee. This is an amendment to the Financial Plan of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture concerning aid for the interest rate on bank loans and partial repayment of bank capital. This is the only thing that has been discussed in support of agriculture. And I will leave the answer to this question to the Minister, who will probably be able to explain both the reasons for this reduction in the budget for this department and their distribution. It's probably related to a decreasing flow of EU funds, isn't it? But I'll leave a detailed answer to the Minister. We did not raise this issue at the committee's meeting, none of the senators present presented this problem, nor did the report of the agricultural committee show up, nor did any of the guests present in the hall raise this issue. But thank you, senator, for the question. I think the Minister will be able to answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u38	Thank you very much, Senator Hare.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u39	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Taxes are to be the main source of budgetary revenue. With VAT and excise duties is to be slightly less money than in 2015, with CIT Only slightly more. The need for budget funding is intended to cover new taxes, from banks and large-scale shops. There's also a fossil tax. What is the policy of sealing the tax system, which is often spoken of by the government? And second question. Since certain measures are envisaged in this respect, why is VAT and excise tax revenues expected to fall? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u40	Thank you very much. I could say, of course, that the committee did not discuss this issue, but, if the senator would allow, I would be happy to speak on this matter a bit outside the committee report, because, as I said, we have not discussed this issue. Please, we have an important problem with VAT, because if you look only at the 20102015 period, the gross domestic product in Poland has increased by more than 20% and the VAT revenue has only increased by 13%. There is no dependency which tax experts consider to be existing and relevant, i.e. the relationship between GDP and VAT. Nothing like that happened in Poland. We are talking about a huge gap in VAT collection. I know the Ministry of Finance has been running operations since... I read that from 1 July, an appropriate computer system is to be launched to cover larger VAT taxpayers and at the same time facilitate the detection of crimes related to this tax, which are carried out on a large scale. Carousel-type crimes, VAT fraud, according to various estimates... I'm sure the Minister is in a position to provide ministerial estimates. I'm based on data that have recently appeared in the media or in seym speeches. And this gap is estimated at about PLN 40.60 billion per year. This is a huge amount of money that, if we seal the system, will fill the budget. As I understand it, the information that this single file has to function since July 1st... The proper name will probably be presented by the Minister. In any case, it is a computer system that will allow for better detection of VAT avoidance offences and will increase collection. So that there will be resources here. It is true that this year's budget brings new taxes. A lot of money appears as a result of a single event, which is the auction of telecommunications frequencies. We also expect a significant deposit from the National Bank of Poland. I asked the NBP about the expected profit after the news in the press that about 8 billion... the result of NBP is not yet approved, was not audited, so it is not possible to adjust the budget revenue responsibly. But the National Bank of Poland actually signalled in correspondence to the Senate Committee on Budget and Public Finance that the payments would be higher. But these are one-off payments. They should not be used to finance long-term programmes, which are for years. Such schemes must be financed from stable revenues from the tax base. And their main source is really to seal the VAT system. I hope that answers your question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u41	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Senator Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u42	Recently, we've had meetings of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and the information that's coming down here today... I have to say, there's some sort of informational confusion. Because just now Senator Zając critically referred to the fact that taxes are not rising, Senator Bierecki, you can say, silently confirmed it, explaining only that this is a matter of the future, while Mr Skiba, at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, informed that VAT revenues would be higher by 6,1%. , with a PIT of 4%, with excise duty of 1,8% , and with CIT 1.8%. So, in the end, I don't really know if they're going to grow or not. I think what Minister Skiba said is probably true. And I don't know why Senator Bierecki didn't correct Senator Zając's thesis. The second issue concerns the State Labour Inspection. Senator Rulewski said that there's a lot of money down there. The document I have in front of me, which is the supporting material for the comparison of expenditure, and which everyone has, shows that the State Labour Inspection in the 2015 budget bill had 291 million, and now almost 309 million have been passed in the Sejm. I understand that nothing is falling. And the amendment that Senator Bierecki wants to propose will increase these amounts. Well, that's good. But I mean the facts, because we're really getting lost in this. Finally, a question for the senator. Mr Senator was kind to say that the budgets of the Ombudsman and the Constitutional Tribunal are the same, they were simply frozen. Mr. Senator Kleina. He's already questioned it, but I'm going to quote the data from the same document. Court: 31 million 50,000 last year, 30 million 650,000 this year. So there's an inheritance. Ombudsman: 37 million 603 thousand last year, 35 million 619 thousand this year. There's an inheritance, too. Mr. Senator said there's no inheritance, so I'd like you to refer to it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u43	Thank you very much. First, in order to sort out the numbers, let me give you the data on the most important taxes. I'm starting with excise duty, it's rising by nearly 1 billion 100 million. The lowest increase is expected from CIT tax by 400 million. PIT is going to increase by 1 billion 900 million. These are also the increases resulting from the planned growth of gross domestic product. The percentage of VAT receipts, as the senator noted, are expected to increase by 6.1%. Because the government assumes that the tax system will be repaired. He's been in bad shape for many years, and there's been a bigger and bigger vato gap. Since effective action is to be taken from July to close this gap and to repair what has been corrupted in recent years, there will be an increase in the revenue of the Vat. I hope that they will increase in a way that is insensitive to citizens. This is important because this increase is primarily due to the effectiveness of cheating and stopping fraud. So this increase, you could say, is neutral for our citizens' wallets. It's just that this money won't be stolen. That was the basic data. As for how these taxes should be paid, whether they increase or not... Yeah, they're gonna grow, but they're gonna grow where they're gonna grow. We have for many years had tax subsidies distributed unfairly in Poland. Let me remind you that, for example, the tax-free amount of PIT has increased by PLN 2 for the whole eight years, half of the funeral allowance has been received, the annual amounts of benefits and pensions have also been symbolic. Right? The retirement age was extended to show a smaller amount in off-balance-sheet items, etc., etc. These were the changes that have been made for the last eight years. We, being in opposition, asked each time why we didn't reach for money where they were. We have been talking about the banking tax that European democracies introduced many years before Poland, for the last four years, every time they received some allowance. Like, as I remember, when the money was collected for commuting to the prison guards' work. 6 zlotys were taken from the guard a month. We asked why we were looking for such money, and there are no taxes that introduce other EU democracies. They've been introduced there and they're effective. This tax was unfairly distributed in Poland, the tax burden was unfairly distributed The small ones were more burdened than the large ones who could afford it. The Philosophy That This Government Presents It appears for the first time in the budget This is the philosophy of burdening those who have money. Bank tax and large-area store tax are taxes that properly distribute the burden of state maintenance.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u44	Excuse me, Mr. Senator, I'll ask because I don't think we fully understand each other. I mean, first, the senator explained why taxes don't increase. And you agreed with Senator Hare. And after my information that they were growing, you justified that they were growing. That's what I'm paying attention to. I asked a question about these two institutions, about the Ombudsman's budget and the Court's budget. According to this document, there is a decline in these budgets, and the senator said that there is no decline. I'd like to know why you said there's no inheritance if there's an inheritance in the document. Or is the document incorrect? Please...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u45	I answer the simplest... This decline is in fact unnoticeable to this institution. That's why I've allowed myself to use the term that these budgets are essentially frozen at the level of previous years. [[Yeah, but...]] [[Oh, come on.]] But you will be able to raise these issues again in the debate. After consultation, I believe that these institutions are able to carry out their tasks, using the resources that the Sejm has allocated. [[Thank you very much, Senator. I'm sure you've provided me with some material for the discussion. Thank you.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u46	Thank you very much. Senator Czudowska again.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u47	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I'd like to ask you what makes the National Election Office more than half the budget. We don't have any choices, but maybe there are other reasons. I'd like an explanation. This is point 11 of the supporting material. This budget is almost 35 million more.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u48	We did not discuss this at the committee meeting. [[We've been discussing.]] Yes? [[Yes, the minister explained it. And that's why it's an amendment.]] [[Then maybe the Minister...]] The senator will remind me. Excuse me. My memory is, as you can see, unreliable. I have an amendment to this budget. He is also excessive in the opinion of the representatives of the ministries. Some of the amendments I will be presenting in the debate are reducing these measures. I'm sorry if I forgot we talked about this... The Minister will have an opportunity to address this. [[And that's why there are amendments from this script...]] Thank you. The members of the committee are very careful with the chairman. It's a good thing I have such good, vigilant committee members who will remind me of what I forgot. [[They're for that.]] I'm sorry I forgot... It wasn't my intention to mislead anyone. It just slipped my mind.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u49	Thank you very much. Senator Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator rapporteur, we have different things in common. I'm with the Senator-rapporteur. Which is a pleasure for me. We have such a thing in common that, I believe, we both did not vote for Mr Bodnar. I didn't vote for him. Here's the situation: Senator Kleina says that the RPO budget is falling, Senator Borowski points out specific figures, concrete calculations, and Mr Senator says that he, yes, is lower, but in an unnoticeable way. So I would like to ask you, by stressing that if you had voted again for your spokesperson, I would still have voted against him in spite of my personal sympathy for him, whether it was worth reducing his budget in an unnoticeable way, as you say, Senator... [[5%.]] ...in order to generate a charge of a certain political dispute or a worldview dispute, settled not on a dispute, as is normally done, only by means of a budget limitation. In short, whether this unnoticed maneuver was worthy of this discussion, which, as a result, is taking place around this case and which, I believe, is not a good sound for those who are reducing the Ombudsman's budget by making such amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u51	To answer your question, and to confirm our relationship and mutual kindness, I would like to say to the senator that, well, the Ombudsman's budget provided for an increase in employment by 9 posts, also provided for the renovation of the office in which the Ombudsman's office is located at the moment. Members did not consider these increases and these renovations necessary, since they did not allocate funds for this activity, which does not mean that the Ombudsman is being discriminated against in some way. He will continue to carry out the activities he has carried out in previous years, and he has the means to do so. He's not gonna have any new jobs and he's not gonna renovate this building. I have read that there is a need for this renovation, but that is what the Members have been doing, and they have discussed it, and they have decided so. I have received many speeches from various offices informing about the need for renovation, modernization, purchase of new buildings. If we really took it seriously, if we decided to transfer the money to all these premises, Warsaw, these skyscrapers would have grown up perfectly. This is a question of a rational view of the local economy of central offices, ministries. I hope the government will see through this, too. I am also under the influence of these letters, which I received from various offices and which concern just purchases, modernization, renovations, introductions, e.g. new air conditioning systems The Commission for Financial Supervision will have a new air conditioner because the old one doesn't work well, etc. I thought it would be worthwhile for someone on a government level to look at the entire local economy and see what the real needs of each office are. After all, at the same time various agencies sell land resources, real estate, the Military Property Agency and others sell various properties. They are the responsibility of the State Treasury. The question is whether it is really necessary to buy, whether it is enough to use and take over something that is already in the resources, but this is already a topic for another discussion. I, under the influence of all these letters which I have received, will make budget requests for purchases, modernization to the Prime Minister with a letter to review the management of real estate which is the responsibility of the central authorities, of those offices, of those entities which are financed by the budget. Maybe there'll be some rationalization here. The Ombudsman's office may then, instead of refurbishing the premises in which it is located at the moment, receive a better office, e.g. in another town. I probably don't have to convince most people in this room that it would be very beautiful if we did this kind of concentration. I mean, it wouldn't hurt a civil rights attorney if he had his office... [[Outside Warsaw, for example?]] ...in Poznan, for example. He'd probably be closer to CODE demonstrations. But it's a joke, of course it's a joke. Please don't attack me for it. [[Come on, Senator!]] ...please don't attack me. [[Mr. Senator!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u52	Thank you very much, Mr President. Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u53	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, budget revenue is rising, and it's quite clear. You were talking about the sources of these revenues: banking tax, large-area store tax, the one-off payment that will be. As income grows, the philosophy of government is to give as much as possible, hence among others. This 500+ program. But these are all rigid expenses, which will have to be borne also next year. So here's the question. I don't know, it'll probably be more of a question for the Minister. What the budget looks like at the moment when it comes to rigid expenditure. Because here is another amount: 17 billion PLN. How does it look in the budget, and how will it be in the future? The point is that we can figure out what some budget maneuvering is about all the other expenses. And here's the question: did you talk at the committee's meeting about securing additional funds in the budget for the police? In my opinion, there will be a great need for resources to train police officers because they need to be trained. Our police officers, the commanders of the voivodships were trained both in the countries of the European Union and in the United States, and now new commanders need to be trained quickly. Because before us, the 1050th anniversary of Poland's baptism, NATO summit in Warsaw on July 8, 9th, World Youth Days. This training takes some time and preparation. And at the moment there was a radical exchange of all the chiefs of the voivodship police, who were well prepared, were well trained. Therefore, I think there is a danger here and we need to complete this training as soon as possible, which will cost you. So the question is, is there any money in the budget for the police? The Commission's meeting will increase whether or not there has been a discussion on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u54	Thank you very much. No, the question of increasing resources for the police was not discussed at the Senate committee meeting. I don't know if the Sejm was doing this, I'm gonna check my notes to see if the Sejm was making an increase. We did not have this at the committee meeting, nor did the relevant industry committee, so to speak, nor did she make any proposals on this matter. As for your question about the share of rigid expenditure in the budget, these budget expenditures increase in relation to gross domestic product, this is an increase of 0.8% This year. These expenditures are increasing in 2016, but this is related to the frosting of wages in the budgetary area. For many years, budget workers had frozen wages, so they really lost twenty-six percent of their purchasing power. After all, it is impossible to maintain in the long run if the state is to have efficient administration and if we are to have well-working budget workers. So these increases are. As I said, an important part of the budget is the funding of the 500+ family programme, because it is only this programme that brings us into certain standards of family spending that are in the European Union. For many years, the motto was to reduce rigid expenditure and introduce flexible expenditure. But what did this philosophy lead to? It has just led to the freezing of salaries in the budgetary sphere, as well as to the reduction in incomes of many households. To a large extent, the effects of this policy have come back to us in terms of reducing demand and thus affecting the growth of gross domestic product. This is a certain circle that falls into when wages freeze, money freezes from the budget. Internal consumption is very important for us, for the construction of our gross domestic product, which is, after all, a tax base, creates a tax base. So it is not, is it, a dogma... More important than reducing the amount of rigid expenditure in the budget is to find answers where they are directed, where and where they are going, and whether these expenditures, which are rigid, which are inviolable, are important for the implementation of the state's development policy or not. The 500+ family programme is an excellent example of how expenditure, which, after all, appears in the budget... And I think it's a woe to a government that would want to take it away in the future. This expenditure will be a rigid expenditure, but it has an important function to improve the country's demographic structure, it will also contribute to increased consumption and liquidity of households. Let me be brief: people will go shopping and spend this money in Poland, and they will pay taxes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u55	Thank you very much. Senator Czarnobaj, and another one will be Senator Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u56	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, At the previous bill we asked the senator to save such good jokes for a break, there we will sit at coffee and who goes to CODE protests, we will talk there, there will also be other jokes, very cool anyway. So if we can ask, we can now talk about what is in the budget and what has been discussed by the committee. Mr. Senator, let's get to the questions. I've got a couple of them. If I make it, I'll say it again later. Mr. Senator, you said about the 500+ programme that it has two goals: to increase consumption and to increase fertility. Are there any other targets you can see? Because we didn't really talk about it at the committee meeting, but now that you have said so, I would ask you to tell me if you see any other purpose in this regard. Now, here's the question about free meds. You said that a free drug program was launched in 2016. Could you give me the number, the amount? What amount is planned in the budget to launch this drug programme itself And how much did retired people over the age of seventy-five spend on drugs, mostly registered by the doctor of POZ, a specialist, in 2015. What's the relationship? We didn't discuss... You said there's 350 million zlotys to feed, as I recall. Can you tell me what it was last year? That's three questions, the rest of them in a minute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u57	Thank you very much. Mr Senator knows very well that the National Health Fund budget is not discussed at our committee meeting because it is not the subject of parliamentary work. So the question is, how many retired people over the age of seventy-five spent on drugs... I don't know that number. I don't know that amount. If you know her, tell us. I hope that the Minister and her colleagues will find this amount... And if we are talking about the amount guaranteed in the budget for the introduction of free medicines for people who are over seventy-five years of age, that is PLN 125 million, that amount is in this budget. Whether it's enough or too much or not, this is a question for the right resorts that prepared this program. No one at the committee's meeting applied for a reduction or increase in this amount, so I understand that it is appropriate. If the senator makes such an amendment, I'd be happy to listen to the senator's calculations. Sorry about my joke. I was told earlier that I was stiff, so I wanted to prove that I wasn't always stiff. Thank you very much. [[Rigid Asia Pal...]] [[You're funny sometimes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u58	Thank you very much, Mr President. Senator Fedorovich. There'll be another Senator Rotnicka. [[Mr. Marshal...]] [[Still feeding...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u59	Excuse me, Mr. Marshal, but the senator didn't answer my third question about nutrition. There's 350 million in there. Do you remember how much it was last year?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u60	In 2015, there was the same amount. The reason for the lack of growth is that the prices of liveliness in the basic basket did not increase, so there is no need to increase the amount. Unless the Minister corrects me. I have found such justification for maintaining this amount, but maybe there is another justification. [[Minister Fedorowicz, may I?]] [[Senator, Senator, Senator, Senator, Senator, Senator, Senator, Senator, ……]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u61	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u62	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I would like to thank you for this budget. This is, of course, our budget, which I also prepared. I would like to express my thanks to the Minister, because the culture budget we discussed in our committee is a very decent budget and it is increased. And I can thank you for that, because, as you know, we don't always attack. As Krakow receives its 30 million by the President's Office, President Duda will surely be very pleased. So do we. However, there is one problem here and I would like to ask you to explain it. Krakow, as you know, is suffocating. We're having very serious problems with our so-called transport space. We've prepared some things as a ruling coalition, and now we have a problem with the north ring road. There was an amendment to the northern ring road. It is essential that we start carrying out procedures related to environmental conditions. Minister Adamczyk, once my colleague from Krakow, and now the minister, spoke in his election campaign that these are essential things. And I would like to receive the answer to the question of why you did not accept this amendment. Don't let her be political... I know what an amendment is that doesn't go through. The city is suffocating, and we need that money very much. If I had to make an amendment, I would have tabled an amendment to accept that amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u63	Thank you very much. If Minister Adamczyk has promised such an amendment... I'm sorry, such changes in the budget, I'm sure he'll make it. We still have a few budgets ahead of us. It is not immediately that Krakow was built and, as you can see, the ring road that you are begging for the senator must wait until the next budget, which does not mean that it is not needed and that it will not be built. There is a Minister of Infrastructure who can probably give you more information, but, as I said, Kraków was building gradually and this ring road will probably be built. In this budget, we don't see... there's no money for it, which doesn't mean they won't be there. This is, ladies and gentlemen, the budget... Allow me to make such a general remark. We accept this budget after 100 days of the rule of law and justice. This is the first budget of this government, so... Well, not all at once. There is a queue of tasks to be accomplished and not everyone can be taken care of. You can't fix everything at the same time. Although I share the senator's desire, because much needs to be fixed after eight years of previous governments, and we will gradually do so. So that... as I understand it, the senator has already been informed about when this fragment of Krakow will be built. [[Yes, and I just want to thank the Minister, my colleague, for all his years with the Sejm, for this information. Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u64	Thank you very much. Senator Rotnicka, and then Senator Grodzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I think I'm going to address my question to the rapporteur of the minority committee, Senator Kleina. I would like to refer to the case of financial assistance to the Ombudsman. I remember a meeting with the former Ombudsman, Mrs Irena Lipowicz, who presented the Senate with a report on her activities and pointed out the difficulties of the Ombudsman. One of the key issues was, among other things, visiting prison facilities and prison problems. I would therefore like to ask the senator: why couldn't the Ombudsman have increased funding, at least to increase the number of posts, what are the obstacles here? Thank you. [[Mr. Marshal, may I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u66	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u67	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The minority proposal is just about to increase the Ombudsman's budget by PLN 3 million 300 000. The rapporteur, Senator Bierecki, said that the increase that was... finally about which, after work in the Sejm, was reduced by the Ombudsman's budget, were the amounts allocated to the purchase of the building, investment and new jobs. In the context of your question, I would like to clarify that, in fact, the Ombudsman, when submitting his draft budget for 2016, entered the amount of PLN 45 million 566 thousand, which was clearly higher than the standard growth expected in the state budget for the various institutions, because in 2015 the Ombudsman's budget was PLN 37 million 603 thousand, so this increase was almost... well, it was large, because by almost PLN 10 million... well, by PLN 7 million. As a result of the changes in the Sejm, the Ombudsman's budget was reduced by PLN 9 million by PLN 947 thousand, i.e. by nearly PLN 10 million. In this way, the Ombudsman's budget was reduced by 5% compared to the previous year's budget to 95%. Thus, not only does the Ombudsman's budget not include this standard increase, which would apply to all or legally all the offices, but it has also been reduced in relation to the level at which the budget was last year. Our amendment aims to increase this budget, not by the amount that the Ombudsman was asking for, i.e. by PLN 10 million, and this is likely to include these purchases or modernisations, the various other things that were mentioned. But only by a basic amount. That's why the $3 million $300,000 claim. We understand that they're... There are no new jobs that were foreseen in connection with the control of detention centers, prisons, etc., etc., and so on, those things that were to be done to a greater extent. So that our proposal Here I ask the High House to support it only applies to this amount of PLN 3 million 300 thousand. We are proposing to increase the Ombudsman's budget from the general reserve, because this amount would probably remain later... I mean, this amount, after a reduction in this budget, is probably meant to increase the overall reserve. But understanding that the general reserve is, so to speak, an important instrument of government action, we are ready, and I, and the applicant, to make a modification, so we can possibly change that, point to another source. But in such a situation, we would ask the Minister for help. Perhaps, while working in committee, this aid would be possible to carry out a transfer from other means, in order to deal with this matter in accordance with the intentions of all authorities and with the requests of all offices in Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u68	Thank you very much. Senator Grodzki, and then Senator Terminski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I have a question for Senator Bierecki. I must say that it is with great pleasure that I listen to both rapporteurs because I listen to professionals who juggle numbers like other pills or something else, it is a really great joy. But I'm going back to the 125 million, Mr. Senator, for a free drug program for people aged 75+. I have to dispel your doubts, which is far too little, and, as the Health Committee said at its meeting, it is enough, as is said in a well-known film, for swabs, well, maybe for rutinoscorbin and not much more. Deputy Minister Głowala herself informed us that next year this amount will be increased to 560 million. And estimates say that in the coming years this useful program will be useful to the extent that it was intended to be not just a type of skeleton and facade, it will take from 2 to 3 billion. And we will make such an amendment today at the meeting. I just have a question for the senator, and even a request for advice, where we could possibly look for more money to cover this amendment. Do you have any suggestions by sealing the VAT, or do you have any suggestions? I'm serious. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u70	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u71	Senator, thank you very much for your concern about this program. He's just taking off. This is the program that starts this year. As the senator said, the scope of this programme will be gradually expanded. There's 125 million this year. Mr. Senator mentioned that next year it would be over half a billion. In the years to come, if the economy under the rule of law and justice develops as we would like it to grow, because we all wish our country well, then hopefully, money will also be enough for more. It's important that this program starts in 2016. There wasn't this program, there wasn't this help, so much needed. It is a good thing that we are starting, that we will increase the resources for this programme, as I understand it, by the right ministers. Let us hope that we will meet these needs, although we must also remember that the programme and the budget also contain funds to support this group of older people, over the age of seventy-five, in a different way. After all, we have a follow-up to the "Senior-WIGOR" programme, these are the daily houses "Senior-WIGOR" where seniors can actively spend their time, it will be the 2015-2020 programme. Of course, it would be ideal to ensure that the elderly are in good health and do not have to take medication. My mom always hates that day-to-day glass of pills, she wouldn't take it. This budget therefore also supports other actions that contribute to improving the health of older people. Yeah, but the effects of these programs aren't immediate. It's not a wonderful pill you're gonna take. It's spread over time. Here we go, Mr. Senator. I can't, on the basis of the data I have on this budget, help you find more money for these drugs in this year's budget. I hope that when we talk about next year's budget, we will be in a better mood, more cases will be fixed after the negligence of recent years and we will have more money for such useful programmes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u72	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask the senator's question. Terminian.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u73	Dear Senator, ah, the malice, the malice... I have a question about the change I put forward during the meeting of the Economic Committee. Namely, it is the Energy Regulatory Office. In the short term, we will have a whole range of changes, whether structural or ownershipal or organisational, whatever it may be called, in terms of the functioning of energy, mining and nuclear energy, while the speech of the President of the Energy Regulatory Office shows that he is lacking in the budget about PLN 1 million 800 thousand in order to successfully carry out all these tasks. You spoke a lot about efficient administration a while back. An efficient central administration requires efficient funding, full funding. My question is this: Ultimately, this amendment at the Economic Committee was not accepted, although I had the impression that the governing party or the government understood the meaning of the amendment and would even be willing to consider it. And my question is, did you consider this at the meeting of the finance committee, or did that even reach you as a problem? Because this is a major problem in terms of the ability to oversee the energy sector, which is a powerful sector and will be very important in the near future. That's my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u74	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u75	Thank you so much for asking. For the reasons that the Senator pointed out, the Economic Commission did not include this in its report, it did not include such a proposal. We did not have a proposal for such an amendment, and therefore the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance did not discuss this issue. I share the senator's view of the validity of this office. This office can be one of the tools that will lead to lower energy prices offered to consumers and at the same time increase the money available to households in Poland. Expenditure which Polish families bear on electricity and gas bills That's what I'd call it in human terms. In my opinion, the income of Polish families is relatively high. And this is one of the places where the government's attention is certainly needed to reduce these costs, especially since energy prices in the world are falling. So the point is that we should leave more money in our households' wallets, because the best thing we can do for the economy is, of course, make sure that the Poles have thicker wallets. The fact that they pay too much for electricity and gas, in my opinion, is a thing that requires attention. The office you mentioned can play an important role. We did not have such an amendment, it was not discussed, but if the senator decides to submit it during the debate, it will go to the committee and we will hear the government's position on this matter. After all, the Minister is listening to our discussion and can also refer to whether it is necessary to increase these resources in order to ensure that these tasks are carried out by the Energy Regulatory Office and to indicate the source of the funds from this possible increase in the budget. Yeah, but we're still ahead of the Minister's statement. If the senator decides to make an amendment, we will discuss it at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Finance.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u76	Senator Terminski. I'm asking you another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u77	Yeah, ad vocem. Mr Senator, of course I will decide to make such an amendment, recommending a kind memory and attention to this amendment, because I am convinced that an additional 1 million 800 thousand will be done by the regulator in the efficient work of this office. Thank you. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u78	Thank you very much. Do any of you have any more questions for the rapporteurs? You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u79	Mr. Marshal! Mr Senator, rapporteur! I'd like to ask you one more question. That is what you said about a matter, it was not at the committee meeting, but you said it today at the time of your speech, so I would like to be sure. You were talking about fixing VAT receipts. Do you know what elements are to be repaired? I'm asking because there was no mention of this at the committee meeting, and you were talking about corrupt instruments. That's one thing. Secondly, please tell me whether these instruments which have been implemented so far will have some effect this year or not until the following years in terms of VAT revenue.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u80	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u81	Thank you very much. There has been so much in the media about VAT and the hole, and so many politicians have said that I have a little feeling that talking about the hole reminds me of talking about a black hole, i.e. No one knows exactly how it's made, what size it is and if it can be clogged, right? In this sense, it is similar to a discussion about a black hole. Only that the problem is identified and tools similar to those implemented in other countries are adopted, e.g. an IT system that I know will be operational for the last half of the year. I hope so, because it's usually the IT guys who ask what kind of time slip is acceptable, that's what my business experience tells me when I ordered the program, they always asked me how much they might be late to deliver this program. I hope everything is settled and these tools will appear. I know that several European countries have already implemented such tools and their implementation has resulted, which is important, the implementation of such software has resulted in an increase in VAT revenues, i.e. by observing the hole in the wall, it could be noted that tax revenues are increasing as a result of such action. That's the experience. The empire shows us that this is the right action, leading to an increase in influence and a reduction in this hole. Other tools that the Ministry is implementing, I'm sure the Minister will be happy to say and much more competent than I am.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u82	Senator Blackbay, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u83	If you don't mind, it's a word to supplement, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, thank you for a good academic lecture, for making good points about the hole. However, I would like to ask you once again, since you were talking about broken VAT instruments in previous years. I don't get into how bad these are anymore, because there might be a big problem with how they define them. Tell me, do you think that these instruments that will be introduced will have an effect in 2017, or do you still expect... I'm asking about your statement because it wasn't at the committee meeting. The Minister said Excuse me, I'll just remind you, Mr. Senator. In the middle of the year, a timetable for actions to increase VAT revenues for next year will be presented, but you said so when talking about this budget. Do you have any information that these instruments have already been activated?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u84	Within this budget, VAT revenues are expected to increase by 6.1%. I know about the actions that have been taken, the tools are being introduced, and I mentioned this software. In my previous speech, I mentioned that a certain indicator showing that we have a VAT problem is that there is no synchronisation between the growth of gross domestic product, the growth of GDP and the increase of VAT revenues. Between 2010 and 2015, i.e. over 5 years, GDP increased by slightly more than 24% and VAT revenues only increased by 13%. It's on a macro scale just to catch up, so to speak, the whole picture. So there's a problem. He's solved, there's continuous action. This year, a 6.1% increase in VAT revenues is expected as a result of the government's actions. So that's... Of course, if the senator has ideas for regulations, for amendments that could improve, to increase even more... we will deal with them immediately. Not in today's budget debate, of course. But if there are legislative proposals, we'll take care of them. We will certainly do a good service to the Republic by adopting such a law. I know that, after all, the Sejm talks about setting up a VAT inquiry committee and finding the answer to the question of who, by name, contributed to the fact that this Vatican gap existed and was tolerated, and whether appropriate measures were taken at the right time. But these speeches are for the time being a seismic event. The Senate doesn't have the authority to set up a committee of inquiry, so we don't do that. We will observe what Members of the Lower House will do with all this. But the numbers say there's a problem. PricewaterhouseCoopers, and this is what the Minister of Finance called for during the debate, provided data that estimates of the size of the hole were slightly over PLN 53 billion. [[Next question, Senator Blackbay...]] So the numbers are different, but, like I said, they're also estimates... And the story about a hole in the vat is really a story like a black hole in space.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u85	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, thank you for your reply. I'm not gonna ask any more questions, I quit because the answer you gave me is the same as before and the answer to the next question I'm gonna ask is gonna be the same. And what I'm trying to say is... I'm really sorry, maybe I'm just saying, I'm sorry that I didn't ask you that. But I'm gonna tell the senator what I meant during the break so we don't bother everyone else about the answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u86	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u87	Thank you very much. The senator has a much more complicated mind than I do. I didn't see the need for a deeper answer to your question than the one I gave.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u88	Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. The Minister of Finance represents Minister Hanna Majszczyk. Hello, Minister. I cordially welcome the representatives of the government. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u89	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Since the Senator rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance presented the main assumptions of the 2016 draft budget, I will allow myself to disregard the macroeconomic parameters that the Senator has set out exactly here about GDP growth, inflation and other macroeconomic indicators. In my introductory statement, I would like to focus on a number of issues that should be highlighted in particular in relation to the 2016 budget structure. As we all know, the deficit planned for 2016 is a deficit higher than in 2015 and amounts to PLN 54 billion 740 million. Thus, in relation to the 2015 novel, where the deficit was planned for PLN 49 billion 900 million, we see here a clear rise in the deficit level by several billion, which obviously has some consequences, has an impact on the various parameters reflected in the budget. Speaking of the level of this deficit, I would like to draw the attention of the High House to the fact that... over the years we have become accustomed to focusing special attention precisely on the level of the deficit of the state budget. This is the first accident of the material that has been submitted to the High House. It is important to remember that Poland's membership of the European Union obliges us And that's the determinant for the other ratios that are going to take place. to maintain a certain level of public finance deficit. And that is what I would like to draw the attention of the High House. In line with the reasons put forward for the 2016 budget, the proposed solutions, despite the higher level of the government budget deficit, both on the income side and on the expenditure side, will ensure that, according to previous assumptions and the path of falling from the deficit level, As we know, we have a suspended excessive deficit procedure The deficit level of the public finance sector at the end of 2016 will be around 2.8%. below 3%, which is set for Poland by the European Commission as a border that we should not cross. We should be below this level in order to be able to follow the recommendations. This budget structure, expenditure and revenue parameters make sure that the security of the deficit reduction path in 2016 is maintained as much as possible. And that was the main factor determining the shape of this budget. The budget shall be drawn up in accordance with the procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. It is also used in this case to stabilise the expenditure rule which determines the levels of expenditure of the State budget. This stabilizing expenditure rule, as you know, covers the whole public finance sector, including the self-government sector, which has a significant translation into how the level of government spending can be shaped at the end. This is the case for individual elements of the structure stabilizing the expenditure rule, the level of expenditure in the local government sector translates into a corresponding reduction of expenditure from the state budget in order to achieve the maximum levels of expenditure in the public finance sector resulting from the application of the rule introduced in the Public Finance Act. As I pointed out at the outset, despite the rather high level of deficit, the level of the public finance sector deficit is maintained. Indeed, the level of expenditure is rising compared to 2015 and will amount to 19,5%. to GDP. This level of spending allowed you to plan... It will be possible to implement a number of reforms that the Senator rapporteur was talking about. The reform related to the largest expenditure pool, with the new expenditure pool to be implemented in 2016, is the project of PLN 500 per child It is these dispatchers who will transfer funds to local government units to make direct payments to beneficiaries of this scheme in local government units. The remaining 1 billion 700 million are planned in the special reserve of the state budget. The issues mentioned by the senator, namely the one-off allowance for pensions, the issue of free medicines in the amount of 125 million... It is also worth noting that the amount of almost PLN 1 billion, more than PLN 900 million, is foreseen as a new special-purpose reserve for the implementation of sentences related to the restructuring of hard coal mining. But the proposed budget for 2016 foresees, in addition to the significant increase in the cultural development budget already being raised in the speeches of some States senators I don't think that was mentioned in the senator's statement. The increase, in relation to expenditure in 2015, of expenditure on education. Of course, this increase will not yet reach the expected level of science spending, which is expected to be around 2%. GDP. As GDP grows significantly compared to GDP in 2015, in principle the level of spending on science compared to GDP may not change as regards their share of GDP, but nominally as compared to expenditure in 2015. In this budget, too, this area has been given priority and expenditure on it has increased by more than 6% compared to 2015 expenditure. It is also important that for the first time this year, under the rules of the Act on shaping national defence expenditure, this indicator applies 2% GDP and in this budget, such resources have been planned for this purpose. I would like to draw the attention of the High House to the fact that this means that these expenses are expenses of PLN 35 billion. But as I said, this is the implementation of solutions that are already written in the bill, which is 2% GDP. I am talking about this because during the debate at the meeting of the Committee on Budget and Finance, this issue was raised. And maybe in advance of the questions that might arise in this regard, I will say that this amount, as a rule, when we look at the expenditure of the Minister of National Defence, is lower than in 2015, but this is because in 2016 there are no funds for final payments related to the payment of F-16 multitasking aircraft. In 2015 there was an amount of more than PLN 5 billion, if I remember correctly, it was PLN 5 billion 300 million, and it is no longer in 2016, because payments have been made, hence the expenditure pool is lower. But it's still at 2%. Moreover, under comparable conditions, if we deduct expenditure on multi-purpose aircraft, which I mentioned, national defence expenditure increases by more than PLN 3 billion compared to expenditure in 2015. Looking at the 2016 draft budget, certainly in addition to those large expenditures and reforms that are planned and which are detailed in the explanatory memorandum to the draft presented to the High House... In the introduction of the government in the part that starts the description of the expenditure page of this budget, precisely those key programmes and expenditures, directions and priorities of the government, which have been marked and financed in this project, have been described and presented to the High House. Among the proposals and changes that have been included there, as the rapporteur has already mentioned, there is also an increase in expenditure on the wage fund for the budgetary sphere. And as has already been said, it will be the amount of more than PLN 2 billion that will fund remuneration in budgetary units and allow for a specific increase in this fund on average by around 5%. Of course, the level of growth of the remuneration fund in individual budgetary units varies between institutions. It depends on whether they were individuals who had previously had some relief or on whom some additional financial injections were applied on the wage side, or whether they were not such individuals. Therefore, these streams are obviously not uniform and in particular supply those units which were wholly covered by the so-called. by freezing, starting in 2009. When building the budget of individual individuals in terms of the increase in the salary fund and the allocation of additional funds for these purposes... It should be borne in mind that, when building the budget, the automaticism of raising the salaries of the staff in the budgetary sphere was removed, i.e. the raising of the basic amount, which would in principle be translated into all officials. Since, during this freezing period, over the past few years, many budgetary units have been reorganized, the functioning of a given office has been modernised accordingly, the level of individual remuneration varies, also depending on the changes that have been made. It has therefore been decided that it is the managers of individuals who, while appreciating the work, the contribution of workers and the creativity of workers, will have an impact on how individual workers will be remunerated, whether their individual salaries will be increased. By directing budget appropriations to the directors, together with guidelines or directions, which have been drawn up for individual managers... It was a question of ensuring the proper performance of the tasks of those entities which are already carrying out the tasks of the State, of course in different spheres, while taking into account the average remuneration of the professional group concerned. These directions were in these guidelines. Plus priority and special treatment were given to those professional groups that were identified as the worst-endowed. Their average salaries significantly deviated from the average of the other groups. I'm talking about all the inspections that have been powered by two. - the 3% difference. For the benefit of these institutions, in relation to other entities. In the construction of the 2016 budget, of course, some solutions have been taken into account, with which the High House had the opportunity to get acquainted in the course of its examination at the end of last year so-called. Around budget law for 2016. Among the solutions that have been proposed there... This law is much more limited in relation to previous years. E.g. There is no further freezing of the salary fund and, as you remember, there is a solution whereby the Labour Fund is financed by internships and medical residency. I am talking about this because, as I have just pointed out, the High House has already examined this bill. Nevertheless, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, despite such a solution in the budget and in the financial plan of the Labour Fund, which is annexed to the draft budget for 2016, there is an increase in expenditure on so-called. active forms of fight against unemployment, by PLN 700 million compared to the 2015 amounts. In this respect, despite the specific arrangements that took place in the Around Budget Act, there is still an increase in expenditure for objectives that are particularly prioritised and which are always the subject of attention both in the Sejm and in the High House. These assumptions on both the income side and the expenditure side... In any case, the actions taken by the Minister of Finance cause debt handling costs to decrease in 2016, as they are set at PLN 31.8 billion and in 2015 it was PLN 32.2 billion. On the income side... This was also discussed by the rapporteur's senator. That income... Of course, there was a rather large discussion on questions addressed to the senator. Are those revenues that Minister Skiba also referred to during the meeting of the budget committee, or are those information presented by the Minister about this increase... That the tax on goods and services is increasing in relation to the 2015 amounts. The justification for the project for 2016 also shows an increase in the amount of the expected implementation in 2015. Of course, these may be other amounts in relation to the original plan. And I understand that the senator who asked a question about this level of income was referring to the plan of the 2015 budget bill rather than its implementation. However, those figures that are given relate to the expected execution. This is indeed an increase, also in the case of goods and services tax, because it is planned to be more than 6%. Of course, such a direct comparison to this plan cannot be possible here, and at the end of last year we were also dealing with a budget novel, which was linked, among other things, to the assumed lower revenues on the part of the tax on goods and services. So the basis for counting this amount is obviously different from that originally assumed, when the draft budget for 2015 was adopted by Parliament. During the discussion of the project, in the questions asked to the senator, the question of expenditure on feeding children was raised. And here I would just like to correct that the amount foreseen for this in the budget is not 350 million, only 550 million, as it was in 2015. The senator asked me to complete his statement if there were any further arguments. Indeed, in principle, we were dealing with deflation in 2015 rather than inflation, and in principle we do not have any noticeable price increase in this commodity group. Although, of course, comparing the prices of individual goods does not have to go out so far to the end of zero, because some prices may have increased and some have fallen. But the argument that I would first of all like to point out is that spending on feeding children from the state budget is additional, complementary expenditure, because And you have to keep that in mind all the time. It is the task of the local self-government units to feed children. The resources coming from the state budget are intended to complement and support the implementation of this task, which is not a task to be carried out from the level of the budget, from the level of the State Treasury. And that, too, is a criterion that kind of creates action in this area. During the discussion, you also asked about the level of spending on free medicines. That amount you're talking about, the amount you're planning for the $125 million budget... As the senator has already mentioned, this program will only start this year, the bill is adopted by the government and according to this project or when we look at the date of entry into force of this project, it turns out that the earliest moment is September this year. So it is generally assumed that this program will only start in the end in the last quarter of this year. And that is why the amount will, of course, be proportionally lower. However, according to the funding path provided for in the draft law itself, it will gradually increase. As the senator has already mentioned, up to the amount of more than PLN 500 million foreseen for 2017. As for the expenses that are incurred by a group of people aged 75 years and above, which you asked, of course I understand that the questions are, of course, about the same plane, the one to which the funding is to be provided. There are supposed to be free medicines here, so we're talking about drugs that are refunded in some amount, not all medicines bought by people aged 75+. And if we are talking about such comparable conditions and about what the Free Medicines Act is about, and about this group of medicines spending for 75+ people, then I would add that according to the research, they are about 800 million PLN per year. You also asked about the estimated tax gap, the one for the so-called gray zone or the non-inflow of taxes. There's an estimate here, and it's hard... Of course, methodologies are different, but most institutions estimate this gap at forty and a little... Different institutions point to different institutions, some give amounts of about 50 billion, as the senator said, but the level estimated by the European Commission is around about 40 billion PLN. You also asked about the planned increase in expenditure at the National Election Office, especially those over 30 million. Where do these figures come from? The amount of PLN 30 million, as a result of the description made by the National Election Office, is planned to equip all, I understand, local government units, but also election points, which operate during elections or referendums. And these are expenses for buying mainly transparent urns. In 2015 the Act was amended and it in this respect The obligation to equip all electoral centres with transparent ballot boxes enters into force on 1 July this year. Therefore, as I understand it, this is the plan, and hence these estimates, such increases, are primarily due to this title. Of course, as in all units, salary increases are planned in this unit too, because it is also a budgetary unit. By the way, I would like to point out that as regards the budgets of all the individuals, the institutions concerned here were quite turbulent discussions of the National Election Office, which I am talking about at the moment, the Ombudsman, the Constitutional Tribunal or the courts. It is these institutions that make their own budgets. The Minister of Finance, when submitting to the Council of Ministers a draft budget for the following financial year, shall include those budgets prepared by these bodies without making any changes to them. That's what the Public Finance Act says. These budgets are simply included. Neither does the Council of Ministers have such competence to shape the level and structure of the budget of these entities. The only institution that can make some changes here is Parliament and various shifts, as you said, Senator, were carried out in the course of the work in accordance with the amendments made and voted in the course of the work in the Sejm. As far as I remember, not all the amendments tabled were accepted, but some of them were accepted and changed the budget of many of these institutions. The changes that have been made in the budgets of these units have been linked in particular In particular, because not only With a reduction in the level of remuneration, since many of these institutions have planned to increase the remuneration fund above or well above the average adopted in the entire budgetary sphere, i.e. more than 5 and 5.5%. Thus, as has been shown by the reasons for the amendments tabled by Members, these reductions have been made. In particular, because there were also, as you have also just discussed here, changes in parts of in-kind expenditure. I will also refer to questions that have been asked to your senators, including questions about the Energy Regulatory Office. We did not have such proposals at the level of budget building from the Minister of Energy who directly supervises this office. It is difficult to refer to the demands about the need to strengthen this institution by more than PLN 1 million or PLN 1 million, I understand. Such reports concerning this problem were not at the stage of the construction of this budget, and I also did not meet such reports in the Sejm. However, I would like to draw the attention of the High House that also in a situation where expenditure would be necessary for the proper performance of tasks and such an assessment would be confirmed by the Minister of Energy, there is a general reserve at the disposal of the Prime Minister and the Council of Ministers, which is planned for 2016 in the amount above, well above PLN 100 million, namely after the amendments made in the course of the work in the Sejm it amounts to PLN 172 million. Therefore, in the course of the implementation of the budget, such changes and transfers may also be made if justified and indeed the Minister of Energy supervising that office gives his approval or justification that this is necessary in 2016. Certainly, many institutions which, after many years of freezing the wage fund, would like to increase the salaries of their employees, inspectors or other people working for specific tasks, would have arguments and would expect an increase of not by 5% We see this from the budgets submitted by the individuals who build their own budgets. But it's up to 10 or 20%. 'Cause that's what happened, too. However, given that it is the head of the unit that decides the level of wages of the employees... this task must, of course, rest on the head of the individual who must make reasonable use of the budget. In addition, such increases would require an increase in government spending and deficit, and this would of course increase the sector's deficit, which is not advisable if we aim to do so. This desire is expressed both by the Minister of Finance and by the Government In 2016 the level of 3% has not been exceeded. Therefore, further modifications to the remuneration fund and appropriate changes to the different institutions will be envisaged in the following years, depending on the needs and tasks that the entities perform. As regards the questions concerning the measures taken by the Minister of Finance to seal the system, I would say that this is, of course, a very complex and multifaceted matter. Such measures are currently being prepared in the finance department and will certainly be presented soon. Nevertheless, you have to remember about what I just said: it is a multifaceted activity of the Ministry and not only. Apart from the fact that there will be solutions that have been mentioned several times here... It is a single control file that will significantly improve the analysis of the information submitted by taxpayers and allow rapid response to individual actors. It will be possible to respond transparently to irregularities and to compile individual transactions. This will, of course, translate into more effective controls and better typing of operators for controls. Such action will certainly contribute to a better and faster enforcement of the taxes due. Of course, additional solutions and tools must also be put in place on the part of financial institutions, such as to enable the entities called to collect their debts to carry out their tasks effectively. In addition, organizational changes are planned in the tax system, which the High Chamber certainly heard about. Changes in the functioning of the tax administration are envisaged. Their main objective will also be to improve the quality of work and the effectiveness of tax collection tasks. When we talk about sealing the system, we must not forget one very important area. It is about work, which will certainly have to wait many years, and which is just as important as direct action towards those who fail to comply with the obligations laid down by law, as well as the obligations they are required to fulfil under the Constitution itself. I am referring here to the long-term work on civil behavior. The idea is that in everyday life, every citizen should be aware of what his taxes are spent on. If we accept other people's behaviour in the area of non-payment of taxes, we do not take receipts or agree not to be billed, we contribute to the fact that some people have greater room for manoeuvre in the deception of the State Treasury. This is about raising the awareness of all people, of all citizens, which is also served by the so-called lottery program. Of course, this is not the only mechanism to raise citizens' awareness. This is simply the training of young people from early years, if I can put it this way, so that such actions and such actions against others, not being allowed to enter the grey zone with our approval, take place in everyday life. Surely, when all these elements are applied, it will be possible to say that taxes will be paid more effectively, because there will simply be no civil consent for another action. I think that's it at this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u90	Thank you very much. Mr Smolinski would like to speak on behalf of the Government. Come on in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u91	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to refer to the two minority proposals that have been tabled. In the proposal no.3, which concerns the special reserve for funds for voivodships for the financing of construction, reconstruction, renovation, maintenance, protection and management of voivodship roads, is the proposal to increase subsidies and grants by PLN 60 million. This is not a reduction, which I say so, by the will of the government, but it is the result of the revenue algorithm of the voivodships, and Senator Kleina paid attention to it. I think the government doesn't see any reason to go outside this algorithm and increase this subsidy, even though it's less than in 2015, but it doesn't result from total government freedom. Nor is it related to subsidies or subsidies for district roads, which were once the responsibility of the Minister of Administration. Proposal No 4 proposes that in the development programme of municipal and district road infrastructure in 2016 and 2019 increase property expenditure by PLN 200 million. That is exactly what Senator Klein was talking about, that previously these grants were the responsibility of the Minister of Administration, at the moment they have gone to the Ministry of Infrastructure, and I think it is right, because there was no reason for the Ministry of Administration to handle roads or road subsidies. For this there is a specialized Ministry, i.e. the Ministry of Infrastructure, which has specialists and experience in this field. The reduction of expenditure by PLN 200 million, from 1 billion to 800 million, was dictated by the need to increase expenditure in the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways, where expenditure from the National Road Fund is primarily earmarked for investment, there is much less money to prepare the investment. We felt that the resources needed to prepare the investment in the new perspective had to be increased, because we believe that there was a delay in preparing the investment and that therefore the funds had to be transferred. But that doesn't mean that the funds for the county roads will ultimately be reduced, because we want to keep this grant, which is foreseen, or spending 4 billion for 4 years. This year we have a shift of 200 million to the general management, as I said, to increase expenditure on investment preparation, but in the four-year period we want to keep these 4 billions for the development programme of municipal and district road infrastructure. So that there will not be, so to speak, damage on the part of district expenditure, but at the moment there will be a shift, I repeat again, to increase the possibility of implementing the national road programme. I would like to remind the High House that the national road construction programme covers investments of almost PLN 198 billion and that the EU budget for this period, in the new perspective, only 107 billion are foreseen, so more than 90 billion are missing. We as a government have adopted this programme prepared by the previous government and these expenses in their entirety, but of course there will be a big problem for the whole programme to be implemented. We assume large savings, which can result, a reduction in expenditure due to the use of cheaper products, the modernisation of expenditure and road investments themselves, and an increase in the budget, we also assume in the long term. We will want to implement the whole programme, but at the moment, once again, we do not want to limit the municipal and district road construction programme, but we are only making transfers within one year with a target of 4 billion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u92	Thank you very much. Would any of the government's representatives like to speak again? Thank you. At present, senators may raise questions to government representatives on this item from a place of no more than a minute's duration. He was the first Marshal of Borusewicz to ask questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u93	Mr. Marshal, a question for the Deputy Minister, actually two questions. The first concerns debt management costs. According to what you said, these costs were allocated less in the budget than last year. Therefore, I have a question for you. Doesn't a decrease in rating result in an increase in costs? And wouldn't the decrease in the rate of the zloty also increase the cost of depreciation? These are questions about the cost of debt service. And one more question. Is the Ministry of Defence's budget foreseen for this year to buy helicopters?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u94	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u95	With regard to the first question, as to whether the costs are rising as a result of a decrease in the rating, I would just like to say that the profitability of our bonds, both two years old and ten years old, are now even below the level that they were before ratings that were negative for Poland. While at the beginning, after the announcement of these negative positions, opinions have deteriorated, today the last information we have indicates that they are even below the level that they were before these ratings appeared. So that's why I don't assume growth here. As far as currency is concerned, here too... As far as the dollar rate is concerned, he's lower than the one before the ratings... which means he's back a little lower, while today's euro ratings are a little worse. However, at present we do not see a threat to the cost of debt service because, by nature, it is such a sensitive part of the budget and it is about ensuring liquidity and ongoing financing, always with its construction, certain exchange rate differences are assumed. At the moment, we have no reason to believe that the appropriations planned in the budget for this purpose, which are lower than those planned for 2015, will be insufficient. As far as the second question is concerned, regarding the budget of the Minister for National Defence, I cannot answer it at this moment, Senator. It's one of the representatives of the Minister of National Defence. I don't think they're in the O.R. He'd have to give that information, because that's what you can't see in the descriptions of this part. We can find out and, of course, give the senator that information in writing. [[I'm the one who would ask for information in writing. Is this the year, or the next... well, when this helicopter purchase is supposed to be finalized? Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u96	Good. Thank you very much. In addition, as far as I know, the exchange rate affects only the part of the debt that is in foreign currencies, not in gold, and most of our debt is in gold. Senator Rulewski came forward to ask the question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u97	To ask the question, Madam Minister, who was sent to you by President Bierecki. It refers to the implementation of decisions of the Constitutional Court of 2014 concerning guardians of adults. The previous budget, in which you were involved, provided for an amount, I do not remember well, but perhaps PLN 300 million for the implementation of these judgments. This year is the period for which these decisions are to be implemented. That's the first question. And the other. During her work in committee, the Minister commended to refer negatively to the amendment by which the auxiliary staff of the Supreme Court were called to grant a higher amount of the increase, proving that the measures which were the security, i.e. the funds from the Agricultural Property Agency of the Treasury, and which you confirmed, must be a security, because the decision of the government which stopped this sale... Don't you think that's a far-reaching interpretation, an attempt at such a bookmark? There's no government decision to stop selling. There's no bill, although there might be a bill... But I don't think the sale of land or agricultural property is ever stopped. I'm asking for a more precise interpretation.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u98	Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u99	Thank you very much. Mr Senator, in terms of expenditure related to the implementation of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, in various projections concerning the law that would implement that judgment, the effects were around the amount of PLN 400 million or even a little higher. I wouldn't like to speak in detail, in detail, because it was almost a year ago, but the idea of a law that would have had such consequences was connected with the fact that... It wasn't just the execution of the judgment of the Court of Justice. There were also other elements which were not the result of the Court's judgment, but were laid down in that law. That's why the effect... It was about PLN 500 million, and it was certainly a realization of the assumptions, so to speak, above the charges which the Constitutional Tribunal had made. This law has not been published, and today there are no new assumptions to implement this judgment of the Court, that is the ruling. So today it is not known what will be the construction of the bill, which would be the judgment of the Court to implement and whether its financial consequences will be 400 or 500 million PLN. As I said, the draft law certainly went beyond the Court's ruling. I'm not saying she was incompatible... [[Talking in the O.R.]] A lot, Mr. Senator, quite a lot. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that when such a law comes out, As the senator said, the deadline for the execution of this sentence is nearing... That is why we have quite a substantial reserve for the fulfilment of the obligations of the State Treasury. [[And the second question?]] [[Please repeat the second question.]] [[Second question...]] I know, Mr. Senator. I'm gonna insist that it's hard to imagine that... the deadline for paying these extra funds is not over. As I recall, these payments are made in April, May. They haven't happened yet. The information provided from the Agency or from contacts with the Agency shows that this payment will indeed be higher, but there is a great concern about not making the revenue that is planned for the current year. Hence the revenue from last year will practically cover this year's plan. The bill is not yet in place, as the senator has said... and I would like to say that the amendments that have been tabled during today's sitting... Unless I'm mistaken, some other source of funding for the court's employees has been proposed. I'd have to check it out, but I think there's an amendment going in that direction. [[I'd really like it if I could just call...]] This, I understand, at the Legislative Bureau, Mr. Senator... I don't have those corrections.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u100	Thank you very much. Senator Dobkowski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u101	Thank you very much. Minister, I have a question as to whether this year's budget provides for a possible increase in revenue, a change in income related to the change in personal tax, namely the introduction of a higher tax-free amount. Is such a change foreseen this year, or is it not, in the years to come? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u102	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u103	Thank you. In the draft budget for 2016, there are no such solutions, no calculations related to this. In accordance with the Court's ruling and with the presidential project which entered Parliament, changes in personal income tax must be published by 30 November. This tax is accounted for annually, so it will in principle apply from 2017.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u104	Thank you. I'd like to ask you a question from the Senator of the Messenger.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u105	Thank you very much. Minister, because Senator rapporteur Bierecki did not answer this question because this matter was not discussed in the budget committee, I will repeat this question and address it to the Minister. According to the analysis carried out by the Office for Analysis and Documentation of the Senate, in the structure of the 2016 government budget expenditure in the agri-food sector there is a decrease of 9.61% As of 2015 I have a question. What is the reason for reducing expenditure in this section? All the more so since I remember the discussions in previous years, a great criticism of the reduction of the agricultural budget in relation to gross domestic product. This trend has continued for several years. I thought this year, in the budget prepared by Law and Justice, it would be stopped. That's my first question. Now the second, already very concrete, also related to the budget in the agricultural section, but this time with the voivod's budgets. Why did spending on water melioration, geodetic and equipment works and water companies so drastically fall in the voivode's budgets? Especially since we have many years of neglect here, which I think is already decades old, in addition in the context of last year's drought and the drought planned by meteorologists this year's drought is treated in this way, so radically these expenses are reduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u106	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u107	Thank you very much. In fact, I'm sorry about this agricultural question, As in the case of the Constitutional Tribunal, I left it out. The Senator rapporteur asked me to address this, but somehow I missed these two questions. As regards the decline in agricultural expenditure, this is a somewhat natural decline in the implementation of EU programmes and the decrease in co-financing expenditure, as the funding from the RDPs has run out, and the new perspective, if I may say so colloquially, is just beginning. All that is planned is not related to any cuts in agricultural expenditure, but rather to a basis for the implementation of programmes that can be implemented this year and which are intended to be implemented in the agricultural sector. As I said, the new perspective is actually just entering the implementation phase and the years crucial for this expenditure will be the next years. In addition, it was similar in the case of the 2007-2013 perspective, the first and second years of which, in particular the first year, were very small expenditures, because all those who undertake to implement the programmes are preparing them. This also depends on the deadline within which the committee adopted these programmes, which, of course, also resulted in a certain shift in the time spent spending on this purpose. As regards the decrease in expenditure on melioration, it is indeed and is also closely linked to EU funding, as in the new perspective there is no longer any funds for melioration. It can't be financed by the Cohesion Fund, we've checked it out, and neither can other programmes, and that's why EU funding is gone. Please pay attention to this, by the way. Of course, this does not fully cover the level of expenditure that was in the previous year or in previous years. That the special-purpose reserve from the state budget, which was at 210 million every year, has been increased by 50 million, or 260 million, as I recall. Anyway, I'm sure there's been an increase here. And of course I realize that this is not how you reach the level that was before. Nevertheless, there is a need to reduce EU funding and increase expenditure from the state budget. And it will be implemented gradually. In the first year there is an increase of PLN 50 million from the budget compared to the previous year.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u108	Thank you very much. Senator Florek, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u109	Thank you very much. Minister, is the increase in rigid expenditure a good direction? Because the new expenditure, associated with the 500+ programme, a considerable amount, from PLN 17 billion to PLN 23 billion next year... This year, 26 billion zlotys are expected to benefit from the CIT tax. So one, almost equivalent, constant, rigid, expense... I'm asking because there's a limit to such rigid expenses. If you could tell me what it looks like today and if we cross a line... Aren't we dealing with some kind of separation, or, as I say, aren't we going back to socialism, where everything is pre-separated? And the second question is also about Family 500+. I'm talking about a program that's gonna start on April 1st. Well, it's clear that local governments are going to have to make decisions, that, of course, it's going to be a big mess at first, because everyone's going to want money right away. We know they're probably gonna get it in three months, because decisions are gonna have to be made one by one, there's gonna be a lot of work. Self-governments are supposed to get 2% for this. However, I have a question about the operation that the voivod will perform. Because it's obvious that just handing over money isn't a big problem. However, this is a government task, commissioned by the local government. And so... As I understand it, such a large amount as 17 billion zlotys or twenty few billion zlotys in the voivode's budgets. It's, ho, ho, ho... Almost a second budget is coming up right now. This must all be controlled, because it is an expense of government, government, government. So the question is... Because now it's loud about how local governments are going to have to hire people who are going to implement this program. And I have a question as to whether the voivodships also have some resources for the implementation of this programme. Because we know it's a very big operation for them, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u110	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u111	Thank you very much. As far as rigid expenditure is concerned, of course, Mr Senator, there is always a high level of expenditure, a high level of rigid expenditure is some limitation in flexible management of the budget, in the event that there is any economic downturn and there is a need to introduce some solutions that would allow the measures to be shifted. However, what we are talking about here is also primarily related to government policy and preference for development, whether in areas of a social nature, as in the case of the 500+ programme, or other issues that affect the level of rigid expenditure. However, as the level of expenditure is increasing by the envelope allocated to the implementation of this programme, the share of rigid expenditure in total expenditure remains unchanged. Because as much as they grow... That is the same as the programme is now worth 17 billion zlotys, and next year more than 22 billion zlotys increase this level, the amount of expenditure. Thus, the share of rigid expenditure in the total expenditure does not change. As regards securing funds for the implementation of this programme and the costs associated with its operation, I think that it is necessary, when the project goes to the High House, to follow it all up in detail. I'm sure the whole program is scheduled for local governments... And of course, the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, who oversees the voivodships, was involved in the construction of... that is, he spoke, took part in a meeting of the government at which the draft law implementing the 500+ programme was adopted. So he certainly also took care of the situation of the voivods. And for local governments and all for the implementation of this bill... Apart from the fact that additional, such one-off measures are envisaged for the implementation itself, as I remember, in the construction of all these expenditures, more than 70 million PLN... These measures, as laid down in the Act, are to be transferred to local governments much earlier before the programme starts to function. Unless I'm mistaken, there are seven days for the voivodships to transfer these funds. In addition, in the first year of operation of the programme from this huge amount, which will be transferred, there is a 2% write-down for local governments and in the following year already 1.5%. This is a natural consequence of the work that needs to be done in order for this programme to be implemented. So I understand that the time left by April 1 will allow these individuals to prepare for a smooth implementation, especially since of course the most work, if we look at the construction, will be for those who will receive the benefit for the first child. But please note that self-government units already today must have this knowledge and benefit from it when carrying out social assistance tasks, housing allowances or family benefits. So, as a rule, this group of people, which is within these thresholds of 800 PLN or 1200 PLN, is already identified in a given local government unit and I think that additional burdens that would affect the correctness of the implementation of this in accordance with the deadline provided for in the project should not be.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u112	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask you a question from Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u113	Minister, in November, the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal concerning the increase of the tax-free amount is due to expire. PiS declared in the pre-election period that it would increase this amount by 8,000... [[Voices from the O.R.: Up to $8,000.]] Up to $8,000, I'm sorry. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Hanna Majszczyk: Up to 8 thousand.]] Up to $8,000. I therefore have a question as to whether work is underway at the Ministry on this issue. And how is the Ministry going to prepare for the execution of the judgment in November? That's right, November... Suppose it's a month and a half by the end of the year, but it's this year. That's all.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u114	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u115	Thank you very much. As I said before, personal income tax is a tax settled within a year, so it can, in principle, also enter at the beginning of the year. At the beginning of the two thousand years, there was a judgment of the Court, which made this clear. The law imposing obligations or amending in principle should be announced by 30 November of the previous year. Therefore, as the senator noted, at that time this bill should appear. Work at the Ministry of Finance is going on as much as possible. As for the manner in which this judgment was implemented and the previous programme announcements which were presented, at this moment It's hard for me to say something. I'm sure this project will come out soon, and it will be processed. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Minister of Finance, among other things in January, during the discussion on the introduction of this ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal and those earlier announcements about the increase of the amount of freedom, the discussion about whether it would be one-off or gradual, phase-in Of course, here we are talking about income tax, because especially at the level of municipalities it is so that their share of personal income tax is very large. This is their primary source of budget power when it comes to the share of taxes, because CIT is used primarily by the voivodship. In January, a meeting was held between the Minister of Finance and representatives of all local corporations in order to learn their concerns and views on how both the previous announcements of the government and the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal would be implemented, how this is translated and what risks and concerns they see in this regard. It was the first meeting. Local corporate representatives have communicated their concerns and the design of these solutions will also be adapted to this. All positive aspects will, of course, be taken into account, which will be introduced in the various reforms and solutions planned by both the Minister of Finance and other ministries. This will also translate into additional revenues of local government units in order to balance, at the end, how much these additional solutions will bring income and whether this will cover any losses due to the increase in the tax-free amount. The first meeting was already, next, I think, probably still this quarter will be organized.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u116	Thank you very much. Senator Klein, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u117	Minister, we asked that question at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, but then you didn't tell me. We're still... You said there were no data on the government budget deficit last year. Do we know more or less what the deficit level for 2015 will be?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u118	Unfortunately, we don't have that kind of information yet. There are further verifications of data related to the settlement of, inter alia, child relief solutions introduced in 2015. Specific arrangements have also been put in place to classify certain income refunds. It was the first year and there were several or several significant mistakes in the classification of these solutions, which is why we are verifying these data. In addition, in line with the current provisions of the report, which will enable us to turn the burden into weight... That is to say, re-accounting not as a burden, but in the revenue of 2015 of EU funds for the expenditure that was implemented. So we have to have reports from the units implementing the programs. This de facto only takes place at the end of March. Of course, the preliminary data will probably be much earlier, because we never wait until the end. Some of the institutions are sending us their reports much earlier and we can immediately properly estimate the EU funds that have to fund the revenue of the state budget and thus estimate the deficit of the previous year. But for now, I'm already so strictly answering the senator's question. We don't have any calculations yet.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u119	Thank you very much. Senator Blackbay, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u120	Mr. Marshal, Minister, I asked at the committee meeting and the minister said she would look into it. I mean, if we add up all the investment expenses... Are there any estimates, Minister, of the amount of investment expenditure in this budget? We're not gonna argue here about the definition of investment expenditure you're gonna give me, I'm just gonna take it. That's my first question. Question two. Just like the Minister said, there's 6%. The increase in spending on science, while as regards expenditure on education, if I am not mistaken, is a slight decrease. Is this due to a reduced number of children in schools or something else about education? And are they foreseen in connection with the fact that... And if so, what amount... I'm sorry I didn't ask that at the committee meeting because of the distraction. I'm talking about spending on kindergartens and day care. It is now known that more children will go to kindergarten if parents do not take advantage of the possibility of sending children at the age of 6. Are there measures for this and are there more or less of these measures compared to last year? And last question, general. Minister, the marshal asked about the execution of the sentence. So when it comes to the issue of the lowest wage, PLN 1850 this year, were there any options considered or not, was this amount simply accepted? 'Cause I'm like, I'm thinking, she was probably in the first project, by the previous government, and it stayed that way. Were there any options for its increase considered?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u121	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u122	Thank you. As regards the level of investment expenditure, they are classified in the budget as so-called property expenditure. This is more than PLN 12 billion. As regards expenditure on education I do not know whether the senator is asking for expenditure in the budget section concerning the Minister of Education, but this can only involve funding for EU projects. Surely there were no cuts as such to limit current expenses. As far as spending on education subsidies is concerned, it has also increased. In connection with the decision to change the education of children, the sending of children from the age of 6 or from the age of seven, some of the funds from this education grant have provided the reserve for pre-school education. And that's the amount. Probably about 80 million PLN, which was additionally redirected to preschool education. This is over PLN 1.5 billion. It should also be remembered with regard to the education subsidy, which in principle had previously been counted according to the school obligation and assumed an increase of more than PLN 1 billion, that after the decision that some children would not go to schools, but only to kindergarten, this shift took place. Here is another additional remark: even if it turns out that the 80 million that have been shifted could be more money, it should also be remembered that education subsidies differ from grants, that they are not so-called. Money... [[Marked.]] ...marked. As a general rule, the local government unit itself will be able to manage this amount accordingly, because, as a general rule, there is constans in the envelope of resources directed to local governments. [[And that's the lowest wage I've ever paid.]] I'm sorry, but I'm not familiar with any solutions that would change that amount.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u123	Thank you very much. Senator Wach. I'd like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u124	Thank you very much. Minister, I would like to ask you about the cost of handling public debt in this budget, this year in so far as the central budget is directly responsible for this. What size is it, and how is it to be the size in the last few years? Give me something like that, on an estimate. This is the first part of the question. If you don't mind... Because that's what the second part of the question is about. Namely, this cost depends not only on the value of this debt, but also on the cost of selling bonds. Recently, there has been a decrease in Poland's rating by one of the rating agencies. After that time, did we sell state bonds? Did this downgrade have any effect? Is there any negative effect of this lower assessment, lower qualification of Poland at the moment, or is the effect of this reduction not yet visible? But the basic question is: what is the cost of service, and what did it look like recently?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u125	I'll just remind you that this question has already been asked. But I specifically ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u126	Service costs are dropping. It is difficult for me to refer to earlier years, but especially in the first year, when there were changes in the OFE, it has definitely fallen due to another transfer of funds which followed this change, and it has indeed been a very large reduction. Service costs are dropping. In 2016, it is expected to be at the level of PLN 31.8 billion, in 2015 it was at the level of PLN 32.2 billion. As far as ratings are concerned, as your marshal mentioned, I've already talked about it. Today the profitability of our bonds is even lower than the one on which they were before those ratings. So after the first such leap, which took place when ratings appeared, there was a decrease in profitability and improvement of these conditions. [[Thank you, and I apologize for the repetition.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u127	It's okay, it's just for the record. I inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to give a written answer to the question asked by Mr Borusewicz. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. [[Shall we move on to the debate? Already debate?]] Senator Stanisławek was the first to come forward for discussion. Professor, come in.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u128	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Dear Izbo! I propose an amendment which is agreed both with the Ministry of Health and with the Ministry of Finance. The amendment consists of a change in the name of the special-purpose reserve which has been miswritten in the Sejm. It is a change of name from the Renovation Clinic of the Centre for Dentistry of the Medical University of Lublin to the Modernization of the Dentistry Centre of the Medical University of Lublin. The change of name allows for the funding of this modernization. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u129	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Bierecki will now take the floor in the discussion. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u130	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As announced, I would like to make a number of amendments to the bill. I'll start with a small but important amendment, especially today, when we started this meeting with a resolution on the occasion of the 35th anniversary. The Independent Student Association. So many of us remembered years of activities in student movement, in independent student movement, which was so important for Poland. So many people who moved Poland from east to west began their political activity in the Independent Student Association. But there wouldn't be an Independent Student Association without Mr. Stanisław Pyjas's story. Soon it will be the 40th anniversary of his death. Mr Stanisław Pyjas is a man who was involved in the activities of student self-help circles, the SKS. He was brutally murdered by agents or security officers. And I want to start by putting forward a series of amendments that I would like to make with a specific amendment. This is an amendment which assumes a transfer of funds from the budget of the National Radio and Television Council to the implementation of the competition for the project of the monument to Stanisław Pyjas in Krakow. I regret that there are no Krakow senators here, but maybe they can hear all this and support my amendment, maybe they will kindly comment on it in the debate. We are talking here about the amount of PLN 100,000 to be spent from this year's budget. It is the year preceding the 40th anniversary of Stanisław Pyjas' death, so in the 40th anniversary of this event a hero's monument could stand in Krakow. This is the first amendment. The next amendment concerns measures which could be used to support the State Higher Vocational School. Cegielski's hippolith in Gniezno. Another amendment. The allocation of funds from the budget of the National Judicial Council, from the heading "Providing the seats together with the adjustment to the needs of the prosecutor's office units and the National Judicial Board... It is about reducing this budget and giving funds to the retired prosecutors, to family allowances. These are the resources that are needed for the general organizational units of the prosecutor's office. There would be an increase of 24 million 800 thousand, and on the remuneration of prosecutors. 13 million zlotys. Another amendment is an amendment that concerns the budget of the Supreme Audit Chamber. It shall be in accordance with the request made by the management of that Chamber. It is a transfer of funds within the budget and an increase in the current expenditure of the Supreme Audit Chamber. I don't think I need to convince your senators to justify this amendment. The Supreme Board of Control is one of those institutions that I'd say they're earning themselves. It is thanks to its activities that the state budget benefits enormously. Another amendment concerns budget support in the part devoted to physical culture and tourism. This is due to the need to provide resources for our participation in the Rio Olympic Games. The measures accepted by the Sejm are not sufficient in the opinion of the Ministry and should therefore be increased. It's a small amount. We are talking here about an increase of about PLN 2.5 million. Finally, as requested by the National Election Office, I request a transfer of funds between the budget lines of the National Election Office and an increase in current expenditure by PLN 3 million 700 000. I also propose a small amendment concerning the Małopolska voivodship, the budget of the Małopolska voivodship. It is about the amount of 120 000 needed to carry out the tasks of the Road Transport Inspection. I propose to increase the current expenditure of the State Labour Inspection, Senator, by an amount of 5 million 395 thousand. [[Thank you.]] Finally, an important amendment concerning the Institute of National Remembrance. It is about 5 million 477 thousand on the IPN for the activity and construction of the archaeological vertical of the Institute of National Remembrance. I'm sure Senator Żaryn would be able to say more on this subject. It's a very important task. The Soldiers of the Cursed, who were brutally murdered and who believed that Poles would find them, find their graves, identify them and claim them, waited too long for their graves to be found. There are many such graves in my constituency. The Charming of the Baran, near Kąkolewnica, called Little Katyn There the soldiers of the anti-communist underground put medals with Our Lady of Kodeńska in their mouths, because it was the only chance that someone would find them after years and identify them as recognizing their own. Now the Institute of National Remembrance on behalf of the Polish state and the Senate should provide funds for this purpose. I therefore recommend to the senators that this amendment be adopted as well. I hereby submit a complete set of amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u131	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u132	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Using the presence of Minister Majszczyk, I would strongly urge that this deadline, which is supposed to pass in April, to draw up a bill and spend funds from the reserve when it comes to carers of adults... I would remind you that this obligation is imposed by two judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal, and above all there were various promises that this problem would be resolved. And, as I understand it, Minister, if I say so, I'm going to write it deep into my paddle, and not just resort to the possibility whether there's a bill and what this bill is going to be. Because my knowledge is so... [[Talking in the O.R.]] What a nice conversation a lady has with a gentleman... However, I will allow you to interfere with the issue of carers of disabled people. May I remind you that this bill is already in place, but perhaps the government will do better It sets out precisely what the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal requires. I would also like to speak as a member of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, which also includes Senator Bierecki. However, the Commission has adopted projects that undermine the budget assumptions of the services, which, I would say, operate broadly within the meaning of the rule of law. The services in question have already been mentioned here: the Constitutional Tribunal, the Supreme Court, the Ombudsman, the Police and others. The budget shows that there has actually been a breakthrough, increased expenditure of these services, including personnel expenditure. However, the committee noted that these services, especially the judicial ones, were being treated in an uneven way. And so: the Constitutional Tribunal was the worst dealt with. In relation to the previous budget, the expenditure of the institution The only one of the 35 institutions that we have analysed 350,000 zlotys have been reduced. Worse still, spending on auxiliary staff has been reduced, not so many judges who are not recognised by the current government, and whose number, I suspect, is greater than what is expected. This is beyond discussion... but the resources necessary for the fulfilment of the State's obligation to pay contributions to the judges of the Court of Justice... at rest have been reduced. For the fourth quarter, they will run out of money. Of course, this is also the only service in which support staff will not receive an increase. And note: the President of the Court, contrary to Mr Bierecki's suggestions, cannot make any changes, e.g. convert expenditure related to the celebration of the Jubilee of the Court into a raise for the Assistant Judge or Cleaner. So this is a call to uphold the law, not just to make budgetary changes. Similarly, the Supreme Court, why there? Even the minority proposal... Because the employees of the Supreme Court, including the assistants of judges, have the lowest salaries in the judicial group: PLN 2 000 300, PLN 2 000 400. And that's why I think it's appropriate, and the amendment has found the source of funding that I've been asking about, so this money is, it's real, it's available. Next thing you know, 500+ is still hiccups, just different. As you know, the government I'm not gonna judge that. It emphasizes the efficiency of this system very much. There are measures to implement it, and there are discussions around it. But certainly there was no situation in the Third Republic to trigger back payments for millions of people for serious sums. What does that mean, Dear Izbo? That thousands... even these new workers will have to lean on it on Christmas, Friday and Sunday to meet this huge wave of proposals for the first time. That is why my amendment concerns this, Mr President, in order to reserve for the implementation of the programme This is probably PLN 1 billion 300 million, provided for these employees by the end of this year in the amount of, say, PLN 250 per month for this process to be smooth. Let's think about employees, not just institutions. Next: I would like the High House, along with the Senators of the PiS There's Professor Sewerinski here, a wonderful figure. But also with the Senators of the Platform, talk to such an initiative. As you know, soon, the World Youth Days of Kraków 2016 will be held in June. As you know, the government is providing organizational support to this huge world event. But it is also known that today the picture of the world is millions of refugees all over the world, 50 and 60 million... They run away from bombs, save lives, run away from rocket bombings, run away from banditry, robbers who always show up under these circumstances... The victims are young people. It would be bad if only young people from stable countries, from Europe, were satisfied on these World Youth Days. Poland has a special duty to reflect Europe's image. A Europe where almost 2 million refugees, including young people, are in camps, families, local institutions or associations. I am proud that I live in Europe, which is the only one who opens the door to refugees. For refugees Do not confuse with emigrants. Christ was also a refugee. According to my interpretation, he was accepted by the innkeeper, and the pursuit was behind him... Perhaps this berger thought he'd lose his license... And he accepted Christ. Poland, which so demands changes in European documents of Christian values, cannot close itself to these young people in 2016. In Cracow or even in a place where another pilgrim called for mercy... Mercy is nothing but looking at the concern and pain of another man. That is why I propose an amendment for the Polish State to provide assistance to a few hundred people from the refugee community, preferably from Europe, because there are facilitations of visa-documentation, but also from areas affected by fights in Ukraine. During your stay at the invitation... This is a small sum of 660 thousand. I believe that the environments that will delegate these young people from Europe will give them adequate help. I would ask the High Chamber to support this joint initiative of the Senators of the PiS and Senators of the Civic Platform and the independent Senator without too much settlement, because they would derogate our Polish hospitality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u133	Thank you very much, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Jan Zarin... No, I'm sorry, Senator Marek Borowski now. I'm so sorry. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u134	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Many times in the past, but also now, there have been various kinds of ideas that questioned the right of the Senate. It is emphasized, or actually stressed, in the past, that we are a House that only improves what the Sejm has produced and that these amendments are marginal in nature. Such a typical joke unpleasant for us is that we mainly improve or improve on or on and add commas and other punctuation marks. That, of course, is hurtful. We know very well that there are many substantive amendments, which are then accepted by the Sejm and improve the law. But you have to agree that if the role of the Senate were to come down to this, the length of time would be limited. You can imagine another formula that would protect the quality of the law created by the Sejm. That is why the united effort of the senators, the Senate's leadership, two terms ago, one term ago, our Senate began to evolve in a very important direction. In the direction of the House, which, for its purpose, is to defend civil rights, ordinary rights, a single man and, still, to uphold good law in the context of the judgments and judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal. In the last term of office, an agreement was reached with the former Ombudsman, Mrs Irena Lipowicz. Every year we have here a report from the Ombudsman, a very thick, five hundred-page report, which points to the great number of cases that the Ombudsman is dealing with and the great number of problems he is facing. And that is when we said that we would be the House that will assist the Ombudsman, who will demand the government to respond to requests that he issue the legislative acts required by the law, and will also be the Chamber which will bring legislative initiatives resulting from the Ombudsman's observations and recommendations. The same applies, of course, to the Constitutional Tribunal. And I have to say that at various meetings, in discussions where I met with disrespectful opinions about the Senate, looking for savings through the fact that the Senate would end, I had a very easy answer. I could have said yes, the Senate was looking for his place, but it seems he found it. Civil rights issues, good law issues, protection of this right, care for good law are crazy important things, important for every citizen and for the state. For various reasons, I will not develop it, do not perform these activities or perform them inadequately, so here we have an important function to perform. Well, now what does it turn out to be? It turns out that the Sejm, for which the Ombudsman or the Constitutional Tribunal are political opponents, cut their budgets for 2016. I was very amused by Senator Bierecki, the rapporteur, who first claimed that there was no inheritance and then pressed a little bit against the wall said that he was, but unnoticed. I don't know if it's a question of vision defect or if there's another reason, but he's noticeable, he's very noticeable. As far as the Ombudsman is concerned, it's minus 5%. I would like to point out that all other institutions which themselves have drawn up budgets have, of course, been affected by the Sejm. That's understandable, because these institutions generally want more than the budget can give. Nevertheless, in all of these institutions we have an increase of 2%, 3%, 18% even, 15% , 6%. We have heights everywhere. The Ombudsman and the Constitutional Court have an inheritance. Senator Rulewski was already talking about the Constitutional Court. It's about judges who are at rest. The number of these judges is increasing and the Court is obliged to pay them salaries. It is therefore pointless to cut these salaries. They're just gonna go to court and get a sentence. The Treasury will pay and it will pay with interest. I draw the attention of the senators to the fact that we, as the High House, really do not need to apply some right of revenge for disputes and that some of us have different views than others. The spokesperson didn't vote for him. As far as the Ombudsman is concerned, it is important to remember that his office is occupied by historic buildings, threatened by destruction and fire at the moment. It has specific recommendations, or actually commands, both from the fire department and from the monument conservator. It's not like he's making it up. Also, as far as the cases he's dealing with... Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to give you some data because maybe not everyone knows it. In 2015, 4,000 276 new criminal cases were registered and 2,000 842 new applications for cancellation were received. That's... Truly, each of these matters must be dealt with individually. When we play the Ombudsman, we don't play him, we just play the citizens who put these proposals together and who wait for months or years to hear from him. Ladies and gentlemen, as the High Chamber, as the Senate, which has set itself the objective of protecting civil rights and good law, we should point out to the Sejm that he has gone too far. Otherwise, ladies and gentlemen... Let me say briefly and very strongly: if we do not do this, to some extent, I am not saying that in terms of the fullness of these proposals, but to some extent, we will simply bring shame to this House and we ourselves will lower our rank, and we do not want to do so. Mrs. Marshal, I therefore make a few amendments. As far as the Constitutional Tribunal is concerned, I am making an amendment with regard to expenditure which concerns retired judges so that there is simply no violation of the law and absurdity. This is the amount of PLN 961,000. No, I'm sorry, this is the sum of PLN 1 million 70,000. As far as the Ombudsman is concerned, I'm making a few amendments. There are different amounts here. Perhaps that's not what I'd like, including all of us. The senators will not decide to accept all these amendments, but some of them. Anyway, it's divided. In total, it is PLN 1 million 721 thousand for 4, literally 4 additional jobs and an increase in wages by 5%, which is the same as is adopted in this department of administration, and about the second amount for these renovations, which at least would have to start, if not for everything, at least for what would have to start. Hence the division, hence a few amendments, so as to choose from this eventually what is most urgent. All in all, as far as the Ombudsman is concerned, this is the sum of 3 million 545 thousand, so completely minimalized, and as far as the Court is concerned, as I said 1 million 70,000. Mr Bierecki said that these amendments, which have been partly tabled as minority proposals, cannot be taken into account because they reach the general reserve and the general reserve is linked inter alia. with reception of refugees, etc. Therefore, my proposals, amounting to 3 million 500 000 at the Ombudsman and 1 million 70 000 at the Constitutional Court, in total, would be covered by a very modest amount of debt handling costs, which, as is known, It is over PLN 30 billion, so 4 million is the size here, I would say, noticeable, but probably with a magnifying glass. I therefore make these amendments and appeal once again to the High House, and above all to the Senators of Law and Justice, not to act in the way the Sejm has done in this matter, because once again I say that the rejection of all these amendments, leaving the matter as it is a blow to the essence of our business, lowering our rank and I'm gonna say it again. It's just a shame.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u135	Thank you very much, senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Zarin. Please, Professor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u136	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to address those budget passages that do not cause as much tension as some other points, and therefore may somehow lead to the fact that these budget points will not be, but are worth articulating, also perhaps looking for a concerted way of talking about some of the issues that I think are perhaps the most important to me today. Well, there is no doubt that this budget, as well as every budget, can be seen in terms of numbers, but these figures, after reading, also form a list of priorities. And undoubtedly, when we take into account both the not-so-old election campaign and the current stage, already implementing the Government of Law and Justice, we can see a certain logic in these priorities and the differences between the recent past and sometimes today. We see this, for example, in what we have just witnessed and participated, in the debate about 500+ and this is an example of a law that undoubtedly fits into the priorities of the government. I think I might be tempted to analyze the part of the budget that's closest to me because of my education and knowledge of things. I see in this budget that there has been a clear new priority that I would like to articulate And which, I think, is neither a surprise nor a basis for any broad protest. And this priority is the Polish historical policy in a very, very broad sense, combined with a priority, which also applies, generally speaking, to education, science, and above all, to our generational future, i.e. the young generation. But I would also like to put the second point immediately on the analysis of this budget. In spite of the existence of this priority, I would also see in relation to future budgets, especially concerning education, although it may be even more visible in those parts which concern the development of Polish science, especially humanities. The need to find even more funding and ways, because it is not just about funding, education and motivation of the new generation to enter the sphere of Polish science, especially humanities. Today we see very often such a situation that there are huge generational gaps in Polish science, the older generation is in fact deprived of the chance of scientific dialogue with the younger generation, because in many Polish scientific institutions, whether at the Polish Academy of Sciences or at universities, there is simply no young staff. And this generation gap... I say it in a radical way, and of course someone can accuse me of it, say: as it is, there are assistants, there are assistants. But believe me, there are adjutants who are forty-six years old, no younger. So I think that in the next budgets that will be created, such stimulating funding should go towards involving the young generation in Polish science. But I am returning to the priorities highlighted in particular in the two subsequent speeches by the rapporteur, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki. I am delighted that at least three issues have emerged from my point of view. The first is teachers, and the fact that they will receive additional money for training, those teachers who are in a moment will be in the areas of widespread refugeeism, will be both for Poles in the East and for Polonia, I will say this briefly, western, although this Polonia is, of course, global and not Western. This is extremely welcome in the context of the Polish historical policy, because this means that there is an attempt in the government to submit to such a reflection that we are obliged to the next generations of emigration, which was educated in different ways, certainly unbalanced with what was happening in the country, both in the period of the Polish People's Republic and in the Third Republic, and equalize the state of historical consciousness between the country and emigration, because we are one nation. Those, according to various calculations, 12 and 16 million Poles living outside the country should be integrated into a minimum basis, one dimension of education, so that we do not lose this relationship with each other. And it's very exciting. The second point that I'm pleased about is, of course, finding money and making a decision. Because it was preceded by a decision of the Minister of Culture and National Heritage On the cessation of diwagulation about where and under what conditions the building of the Museum of History of Poland should stand, and on the indication that it will be in the Citadel of Warsaw. There is slowly a new museum centre in the scale of Poland, a very clear centre, because as you know, there will be, and there are already, several museum facilities. The Museum of Polish History and the Museum of Polish Army will either be installed there or transferred. It is also a testimony to a certain vision of this priority. As you certainly know, every stay of every tourist visiting the capitals of countries, is a stay in places where we learn about the history of a given nation. And it is impossible that there is such a situation that there is no institution telling about the history of the nation to which you are coming, the Museum of History of Poland. And the third point, which your rapporteur raised, is, of course, an attempt to explain why we should be happy and why we should all be glad that the Institute of National Remembrance will receive the money, which in the preliminary budget was written down by the management of the IPN, i.e. the additional PLN 5 million 477 thousand. The sum that the Sejm took away is missing. In my opinion, it was not quite prudent that it had very far-reaching negative effects. Because these personal resources, which were prepared by the Institute of National Remembrance, were intended primarily for the creation of a new department, a department which will be called the Independent Search Department and which will most likely be headed by Professor Krzysztof Szwagrzyk. Today at the Institute of National Remembrance there are no archaeologists, they are not employed, therefore you cannot move employees from one department to another, because this will not change the substantive reality, but you must undoubtedly hire new workers and finish this work largely due to the passion of one man who decided to give up part of his life to make amends to the dead Polish heroes; I mean, of course, Professor Krzysztof Szwagrzyk. And there's the second part that brings good hopes back. Namely, as you know, in the part of the wealthy budget more than PLN 1 million could not reach the IPN, which would result in very far-reaching effects, I understand, long-term, in the form of termination of construction. Sometimes it turns out that financial support is a way to save money, not a way to spend money in vain, and that is the case in this case. Because the main archival seat of the Institute of National Remembrance is located on Kłobucka Street in Warsaw and houses over 20,000 m.b. the act. It is also a place to preserve these resources and place to make them available. This building has been under construction for several years because it was taken over in a tragic construction condition from the previous user. A sudden interruption of this process before completion of construction would be very dangerous from the point of view of the rationalness and economy of the state. Therefore, I am very happy that this will be restored. On the other hand, it is equally important from the point of view of the Polish historical policy and educational path in an institute where I have worked for many years, and at the moment I am obviously not working... There will be money for a very beautiful educational center that will be placed in Łódź. It will be a centre which will be tasked with providing all schools, school institutions in Poland with various types of historical games and educational games. As you know at one time, a great career has been made by the game "Railway" developed by the employee of the IPN Karol Madaj. Now is the chance to institutionalize this, you can say, one-man cell. As it turns out, this language of communication with the youngest generation, precisely through historical games, is the language that makes up the intergenerational community of us. In conclusion, I would like to stress that when I examine this budget, both the parts that concern the issue of Polonia and the parts that concern the Ministry of National Education or the Ministry of Science, I see a new quality. It is about the fact that the government has presented to us that from now on there will be a category of tasks which we call the Polish historical policy, a category of tasks which we refer to as the development of Polish science, especially humanities, and a category of tasks which fall within the competence of the Ministry of National Education. I have a great appeal to you sitting here and responsible for these matters on behalf of the Polish government. I'm asking you to keep this up. Negligences in this area are and have been repeatedly discussed in different places. Let's hope this priority doesn't disappear into the next budgets, but I say it improves, especially when it comes to the younger generation. I am talking about this because we are threatened not only by a terrible tragedy in the form of a terrible demographic crisis, but also by a terrible generation gap in Polish science. It will be if we don't take care of the young generation today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u137	Thank you very much, Senator. I'll ask Senator Piotr Flork to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u138	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Dear guests! Senator Bierecki spoke today about the repair of the country after 8 years of government of the Polish Republic, about the need to repair so much. He's said that many times. I would reverse it and ask this question: in four years' time, will she be able to make amends if all your promises that are made here are fulfilled? I'll add a few threads here. Budget revenue. We know what they're like. There are things that are certain, but there are a lot of things uncertain, including new income, that is, income from tax on financial institutions, from large-area shops. What's the tax, how much will it cost, we'll see. You also said about GDP that thanks to the fact that 500+... that this money, 17 billion PLN, will flow to the market, GDP will increase this year, as you predict, by 0.5%. Let me repeat this simple relationship once again: we need to do a new programme, not 500+, only 1000+, that's twice as much money, so GDP is not going to increase by 0.5%. , only 1%. There are no simple dependencies, no conclusions we can draw from all of this. So that these revenues of the state budget are, of course, uncertain. Whether they'll be realized, we'll see. However, there are expenditures that are rigid, which must be realized. Ladies and gentlemen, I, together with Senator Rotnicka and Senator Marian, report 14... no, actually 12 amendments to the budget bill. I've already filed, just now, a handwriting. The majority are generally concerned with local matters, our region, or Wielkopolska voivodship. Nevertheless, I would like to say two more things. The first concerns the development programme of municipal and district infrastructure, i.e. roads, for the years 2016 and 2019, which was mentioned by the Minister. The Minister said that part of the money, 200 million PLN, is to be transferred to the preparatory documentation. The Minister emphasized that it was a good thing that it was all in one ministry at the moment. And I'm sure you're right. Although, as you can see, if it were in separate ministries, this shift probably could not be done and would be 1 billion zlotys, not 800 million zlotys. But where am I going with this? To the fact that as far as European funds are concerned, there will be virtually no European funds for roads in the various voivodships this year. They'll be here in the next few years. There are companies that specialize in road robots. And it would be worth doing just the opposite: that this year's money should be greater, e.g. PLN 1 billion 200 million and last year As the Minister said, It's smaller. The Minister emphasized that 4 billion PLN... that the programme will be implemented. That's what we're happy about, of course. As for the construction of roads and motorways themselves, the construction of national roads, of course we discussed it at the committee meeting. So that it will be implemented according to the assumptions. And that's what you really need to be happy about, 'cause there's gonna be miles of good roads again. And the second thing that I would like to bring up is also a local matter, but... It's about such a priority investment in Poland, I mean the Monastery Monastery Monastery reservoir. It's a reservoir in the Prosno, near Kalisz. Of course, during every flood, the city of Kalisz is either flooded or heavily threatened. And in 2010, during the flood, when the Prosny River and the Warta River culminated, which was also a huge threat to the city of Poznań, especially in Kalisz. So this tank is necessary, it is needed. This investment has actually been implemented since 2001, and it has been going on for several years. So far, about PLN 100 million has been spent, 1 thousand hectares of land and 29 farms have been bought out on 33. And the only thing that's still missing is the money to start building the tank. The amount in question is substantial, because the whole tank is going to cost 933 million PLN, that is the valuation. So at present, about 800 million zlotys are missing. It is difficult to cope with the voivodship budget, with local budgets, without support. Every year we talk about this subject, every year there's an attempt to bring it into the budget... And unfortunately, there are still problems with that. The next flood will come, and we'll probably go back to the subject and say, well, it's a shame that we haven't used it over the years... and that this investment, which is so important to the whole region, hasn't been realised. I've already made my amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u139	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u140	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin with local matters. I am the senator of Powiśla and Żuławy, so I will start with what is important in my region. Some things don't exist or are being carried out to a lesser extent and hence a few amendments, which I have already passed on to my fellow Senators. I'd like to draw your attention to a few things. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, the program of protection of Żuław, and more broadly Powiśla and Żuław. Powiśle and Żuławy is such a granary of Poland when it comes to food production, agriculture. Elements that have been forgotten for many years are melioration and safety. The last years are the implementation of the program for Żuławy for PLN 600 million. As the Minister said, this year there are fewer funds for melioration, which is due to the conditions mentioned by the Minister. However, if you... [[Talking in the O.R.]] If I could just ask for a little... If you meet with people who are involved in this production in Powiśle and Żuławy, you will learn that the issue of water regulation is a fundamental issue for the future of these farms. Therefore, I make an amendment concerning the allocation to tasks related to drainage, flood protection in Powiśle and Żuławy the amount of PLN 200 million. Ladies and gentlemen, a very important element from the point of view of the functioning of the districts on the right side of the Vistula, i.e. Powiśla and Żuławy, the areas from which I come, is road communication. Route 55, which is the only road connecting, you can say, north and south, is carried out in stages. I would like to ask you very much to start the investments that were planned. We are carrying out a viaduct through Nogat in Malbork, but at a later stage we will need the Malbork bypass and Kwidzyn bypass. In view of the start of these investments, I am making an appropriate amendment. And a note about, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mrs. Marshal, may I have some silence? ...Destination of food resources. The Minister said, when we discussed the 500+ programme, that these 500 PLN should also be enough for this, among other things. If we assume it's a program to level the playing field, I'm talking about the 500+ program if we assume it's a program that will increase childhood... I believe that commitment to food matters should, so to speak, take a separate route. There was PLN 550 million... as the Minister said, these are not the only means, because local governments add to it. Some of us were in our previous term of office and heard that 800,000, 900 thousand children starving... Since you presented such criticism then, show good will and let us make sure that the money that is needed to feed about 150,000 children in Poland comes from a separate source of support. Because assigning 500+ to the program all tasks, from increasing fertility, through good food, buying clothing, God knows what else... As Senator Bierecki said, as my previous speaker also said, this is the best element of increasing gross domestic product. And two words about which the senator spoke before me, the local roads. I fully support and subscribe to this... If any of you I'm talking about colleagues from the Senators of Law and Justice, and he has experience in local governments, and he knows that the problem of road construction is a problem that we meet at every meeting. If there is less EU money, and you can say that there is hardly any... So it came to me, the front of the works, because specialized companies and this social need... I would like to remind you that in support of the construction of local roads in good times there were 2 billion PLN. I propose that you seriously consider what concerns improving the quality of roads in district Poland. I am very supportive, I am signing the proposal to increase these expenditures. Together with Professor Grodzki, we are applying for an increase in the amount of money for medicines. 125 million PLN in this budget is a very good move. You declared, I think, after a large analysis that it's worth doing. We therefore want to help you with this. What is in the study, what is knowledge After seventy-five years of age last year, people bought drugs... The ones that were prescribed for their treatment. It's not like anybody's buying drugs today to have them. $2 billion was spent on this.600,000. Then think about what 125 million zlotys are. It's a good thing this project starts, that it will be detailed, that it will start in the middle of the year. But we have tabled an appropriate amendment to make it 500 million more. The point is to move on with a substantial amount, because 125 million to 2 billion 600 000 or to 1.5 billion... This is the amount that, as Professor Grodzki said at the Health Committee meeting, will suffice for swabs and something else. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say a few words about what the budget is about, because the budget is an emanation of the state. I'm talking about the 2016 budget. I believe that we, as Senators of the Civic Platform, should take some responsibility for this budget, because, whatever it is to say, it is a budget submitted by law and justice, but many elements are a continuation of previous actions. You can tell stories about ruined Poland in terms of investment and social ruin. I would just like to read you a few things about why we believe that this budget you are making has also good elements and that Poland is not in ruins. And at the end, I will read some of Senator Bierecki's statements when he was in opposition. Well, I'm glad the senator's been through such a metamorphosis. I just want to say, it's not like the economy, the state of the state, the state of education, the state of investment in innovation, etc., etc., as I'm about to say... It's not like it happened in one day, October 25. That is why I would like to say that we are signing up for many elements of this budget, and that is why... [[Because it's your budget.]] Yeah, that's our budget. With certain elements that spoil it, because... [[Polish.]] [[Poland, all of us.]] That means all of us. [[That's what I should say.]] What I'm trying to say is that the senator came into my word. I'm not gonna start my speech from the beginning. I continue to show that the budget is a certain emancipation of the state of the economy, the state of social policy, etc., etc. Ladies and gentlemen, when we look at indicators such as... In four years, I wish the Senators of Law and Justice would say this: 4 years ago, this was the case. Which I'm going to quote in a moment. And now they're definitely better. Because it will be for the benefit of Poland. Economic growth for the fourth quarter at around 4%, unemployment below 10%, employment of 16 million 240 000, more than 300 000 jobs in the last year They are among the best indicators in the twenty-five-year history of Poland. They are also a measure of socio-economic policy, but also of the budget. Of course, the question arises as to whether all problems are solved. Absolutely not. You've won these elections to eliminate all the misrepresentations we've had in the previous two terms of office. Well, it's hard to say that what you're proposing in this budget, your ideas are going in that direction. If we're talking about gross domestic product... Let me just remind you that in 1990 it was less than 40% the European Union average, today is 69%. Prime Minister Morawiecki says we should be at 80% in 25 years. This shows that it is a long-term process that requires intensive work. It is therefore not possible that during the term of office of 69% 80% will be made. Just like it was impossible for 40% to turn 69%. It took Poles 25 years to work hard. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, one of the elements... [[Mrs. Marshal.]] [[Mrs. Marshal.]] Oh, I'm sorry. [[I'll live.]] It's those glasses, Mrs. Marshal, I'm so sorry. One element of the state image is also industrial production. I subscribe to the European Union's new strategy that not only services, but above all reindustrialisation, because when we produce, we have factories, that services will be created around all of this, and services will be created for the benefit of a given society. But as you remember, for many years the European Union has pushed for the development of services. Well, I'd like to say and remind you that last year is 6.7%. the increase in industrial production. I will also say as a curiosity that in Europe only Serbia, Slovakia and Macedonia had an increase of 8 and all other countries had much lower indicators. This is so short, because there is much to be said here about numbers indicating the state of the Polish economy. But I will also say a few words about the social sphere. I spoke during the debate about the 500+ programme that this movement of strengthening Polish families is a good movement, I accept it. Of course, I will not repeat any reservations that 500 PLN, which you are proposing, or 20 billion PLN, so to speak round, issued in an inefficient and perhaps only effective way, causes another division in the Polish society, and is divided not only by adults but also by children. This program is not targeted And that's what I think it should be like. It is mainly for those in need, that is, the distribution of this money, so in short, less money should go to wealthy people and more to those in need of assistance, which the state does not implement. I'll just remind you that we're spending about 20.7% for now. GDP on a broader social policy. This increase in expenditure will certainly improve this indicator, we will get a bit closer to what is in the British Isles, and there is 23.5%. Often during the debate on the state budget, still as opposition senators, you discussed the issue of pensioners. Well, it's a good thing 1 billion 400 million zlotys is for a one-time payout. But you probably know from statistics and reports what the increase in pensions will be this year: 2.50 zł, 3.50 zł. You could say, "What are you doing?" I won't say it because I know one thing: this 1 billion 400 million PLN spent on a one-off payment it is still a great effort of the state budget to make some adjustments in terms of pensions. Therefore, it is good that there is such a point of expenditure, but pensioners will not be very satisfied with the size of the raises. An important problem today, and that's what I'm saying in a political sense. The Law and Justice have been very nicely used... [[Mr. Senator, you're already out of time.]] Therefore, I will end with this, Mrs. Marshal, and I will ask for the next five minutes; I will begin with wages.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u141	Thank you, Senator. Senator Kazimierz Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u142	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Sometimes I think that sometimes it's worth losing the election, because then it turns out that reality looks completely different than our opponents or our opposition colleagues said. Because, as Senator Czarnobaj mentioned earlier, it does not look like this, as we had been told a few months ago, because Poland is not in ruins, it is even developing perfectly, inflation is not what we said before, it is building roads, bridges and everything is going in the right direction. And that's more or less the image of Poland, that's true. I am glad that the statements coming from the ladies and senators show the image of Poland far more objective than those made a few months ago. This budget that we are working on today is, after all, the result of the work of all of us, and what it will be, what will be its final shape, largely depend on the current parliamentary majority. Before the sitting, one of the senators told me this morning: it is not good that elections take place in the autumn, because then the new government entering the stage of government actually has to and wants whether it has to or wants to implement these projects and programmes that have been developed earlier. I think it's very good that the elections are in the autumn, that the government that is starting to work is working on a budget prepared by its predecessors, because otherwise there would probably be some random work on the budget, on activities that would be carried out under the influence of various kinds of emotions. Thanks to the fact that there is time for reflection, the budget for the next year will also be, so to speak, balanced and will come out of this year's budget and budgets of previous years. That's what we've been doing, and it's probably gonna be law and justice. For example, it seems that there was no time to reflect on the adoption of the Act on six-year-olds going to school, because if there was more time, perhaps the Minister of Education would behave the same way as in the middle school cases. But let's get back to the budget. So I am, because there is a fairly positive assessment of the various actions that have been implemented by the previous government, I would like to say that I am not afraid for the budget of this year, even though there have been huge new expenditures planned there, which we had not anticipated before. I am more worried about the budget of the next year, i.e. 2017, because then it may turn out that some things will be much more difficult to carry out. It may be that much more money is needed for the 500+ programme, that more resources are needed for medicines for those over the age of seventy-five. In turn there will no longer be such a large deposit from the National Bank of Poland. The National Bank of Poland recently talked about the amount of PLN 8 billion, which can be paid in this year as surplus of the previous year, and the budget is currently included 3.2 billion. So this is the amount. It's really huge. It is absolutely unlikely that in the next year in connection with the functioning of the National Bank of Poland there would be such large payments, because the changes that were made in the National Bank of Poland last year are rather effective in this current payment. Nor will there be such a huge one-off payment for the sale of the frequency of new mobile telephony technologies, and this is also a huge amount. Moreover, the relatively large payments foreseen this year under the Banking Tax Act next year may be smaller, contrary to appearances. In the next year, it may be difficult to implement the amounts provided by the Ministry of Finance. Prime Minister Morawiecki also announces a tax reduction for small and medium-sized enterprises from 19% to 15%. It is a good proposition, but it must result in a reduction in revenue to the state budget. So these problems can accumulate next year, and the expenses that the senators are proposing here, which the Government of Law and Justice is proposing, will be much greater next year. I therefore propose an amendment. In addition to those which were requests by the minority of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, concerning an increase in the amount of the payment from the National Bank of Poland by PLN 5 billion, i.e. the amount declared by the National Bank of Poland. What will it have on the budget, it is difficult to say, which is why I suggest that this additional contribution is a reduction in the budget deficit. This is the most important amendment of my amendments. Others are less important and are smaller in quota terms, so they do not have such a significant impact on the state budget. I tabled an amendment on the issue of World Youth Days in Cracow and support... Senator Jan Rulewski also mentioned this. We have prepared these amendments together, there are even alternative amendments in order to actually give a chance to choose the best and easiest solution to be implemented from the point of view of the principles in force in the implementation of the state budget. I also propose an amendment concerning... This is a problem which is always, on the occasion of each state budget, marginally treated, of course again is not important for the functioning of the whole state. This is a new amendment, which concerns additional, small resources for support for national and ethnic minorities and people who speak regional language, minorities, which are very few in Poland, but every year they apply for support, earlier to the Ministry of Administration and Digitisation, now it seems to be returning to the Ministry of Internal Affairs. I propose that the measures for this purpose be slightly increased. I'm also making an amendment. We talked about this at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances on the Supreme Audit Chamber, about internal redeployment, the transfer of funds within the budget of the Supreme Audit Chamber. We discussed this issue and debated it at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. I've withdrawn the amendment, and now I'm making it again. I also talked to Senator Bierecki about this, so there's an idea for this case to be handled positively. Once again, I ask the ladies and gentlemen of the senators to support our amendments, mine, the minority of the committee, and those which, in a slightly different form, you submit to Senator Borowski, concerning the Ombudsman, the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Audit Chamber, in respect of those cases which arrange the expenditures of these institutions, and in all, it is not known why, but probably because of political motives, their budgets in relation to the budgets of last year's The amendments to the Ombudsman are particularly important. They're all important, but there are some amendments that concern things that need to be... Whether in historic buildings or where there are technical problems, they must be resolved, certain matters must be carried out, and for this simply need finance, resources and it cannot be financed differently than through the State budget. Thank you very much, Marshal. Thank you for your attention. [[22 minutes.]] 22 minutes?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u143	No, nine minutes. [[Nine minutes.]] Thank you, Senator. [[21.5 minutes.]] You're welcome, Senator George Wright. Are you the senator? You're a senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u144	I'll give the next speaker a few minutes. Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I would like to make five amendments to the 2016 Budget Act. The most important issue is to include in the 2016 budget the task of modernising the infrastructure of the Elbląg Maritime Port. It is one of the most important investment tasks in Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship. It is linked to an increased port capacity in Elbląg. It is in line with the transport and development strategies of Poland, the Warmia-Mazurskie voivodeship and the city of Elbląg. I will also add that it is also in line with the AGN Convention, which Poland intends to adopt quickly. That is the intention declared by the Government of Law and Justice. It is also part of a territorial contract signed by representatives of the government and Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship. Unfortunately, the state budget for 2016 did not include the resources for this task. I therefore propose that the budget include the task of modernising the infrastructure of the Elbląg Maritime Port. As part of this task, the construction of a turntable for vessels with a length of 180 m, railway siding and terminal 2, a new quay will be carried out together with the extension of the freight and freight terminal, bridges on the Elbląg River and the Jagiellonian Canal along with the communication system and the increase of the transit depth in the port from 3.5 to 4 m. The expected cost of this task is PLN 255 million. These investments will increase port capacity and allow port use of units with capacity of more than 1,5 thousand t. As a result, the expected transhipments in the port will double. At the same time, it is an undertaking which determines the reasonableness of building a channel by measuring. Without this investment, the positive effects of channel construction by measure will be very limited. I have four more requests for smaller amounts. I request that the amount of PLN 6.4 million be allocated to the reconstruction of the national road 51 in the Good Town, the amount of PLN 3 million 850 thousand for the construction of a pavement from Łąki Bratianski to Bratianka during the national road 15, the amount of PLN 1.5 million for reconstruction after the fire of the church. Anthony in Braniewo and the amount of PLN 1 million for the construction of mechanical road barriers at the Polish-Russian border crossing point in Bezledy in Warmia-Mazury voivodship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u145	Thank you very much, Senator. You're making amendments, okay, thank you very much. And there you go, Senator Piotr Wach.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u146	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! My speech will start with general reflections, and I will end with local amendments. As far as these general reflections are concerned, they are like this. I have the opportunity and the honour to take part in the adoption of the state budget for the eleventh time. This is not a record, there are a number of people who have participated in this, but I have some observation from the eleventh discussion and this procedure. During this period, we have adopted a budget with a deficit. These deficits were different, I do not remember them in detail, but I think the lowest ones were in the order of twenty few billion zlotys, and one of the highest this time exceeds 50 billion zlotys. They closed about in this respect, from 25 to 55 billion PLN, roughly. Every time I was in the debate, I condemned this process, and according to some theories that I didn't know enough, I thought it was a dangerous process and that this debt accumulates in a way that will first be an anchor for development, and then it could lead to some definitely negative effects. Now I am not so sure, especially after the Minister's reply, that the service of this debt this year will cost thirty-several billion zlotys. And the cost of service in the past was already higher, at almost 50 billion, and certainly more than 40 billion zlotys per year. Nevertheless, this debt accumulates and needs to be repaid. Therefore, without being so radical and categoric in condemning this procedure, I would like to say this: both the Constitution and the European Union introduce their limitations in this respect. Our constitution speaks of a cumulative debt up to GDP. We're in it, say, we're in it. The European Union pays more attention to the budget deficit year by year and some limit is 3%. I am interested in what this will lead to, whether you can constantly not pay your commitments, what it looks like in theory and in practice. The Minister probably knows or knows examples of this practice. Well, we know this from Greece, we know some dramatic examples, but it's quiet here. The debt is increasing, there has been no catastrophe so far, the burden is quite stable and, as the Minister says, decreasing, but somehow it will have to end. I wonder who's gonna answer that question. Is it that with enough economic growth, e.g. 4% or 5% but at the same time large enough but not too high inflation, e.g. 3 percent, you can drive like this for years and wait for not knowing what, because the debt accumulates... To the next world war, I guess. Well, I wonder what it looks like in theory and practice. In dramatic cases, we've seen this in the past. So much for the theory. As for the practical matters involved... There's actually a question mark here. If someone were polite to speak on this subject, it would be interesting. As regards the amendments and this sort of thing, first of all, I would like to support the voice and amendments of Senator Borowski very clearly. I think they're important. They concern both the functioning of the State and the functioning and subjectivity of our House. It's about what we were proud of. That's it. I am very, I would say, local amendments concerning Opole and Opole, my constituency. This is mainly about transport infrastructure. I'm gonna say a few words about one of the amendments. It is close to my heart, although it is not particularly important from the state's point of view. The fourth amendment concerns budget expenditure of PLN 3 million for the construction of a roundabout at Prószkowska Street in Opole. It's one of the many amendments that could be made here. Let me give you a closer look at why she's so close to me. I will not enter into the origin of the name of Prószków by This small town in Opole is known for being the highest temperature recorded there in the history of our country or in the territory of our country. It was a temperature exceeding 42°C. This was well measured in German times, in the 1920s. Rondo at Prószkowska Street is in the immediate vicinity of Opole University of Technology. When I was president of the WSI in Opole and later of the Opole University of Technology, we took over... At the time, I was a rector, a public official, an academic in this area. We took large, beautiful barracks from the city after the Polish Army unit, which was built in 1936, during the Nazi state, Nazi Germany, in connection with the invasion of Poland. They were stationed there big... It is a very beautiful area, very beautiful, solid barracks, which served to prepare for the invasion of our country. They were put into service in 1936. History so turned out, that after the period of use of these objects by the Polish Army It is a large area, and these are large objects of Opole and then to the Opole University of Technology as a development area. It was very risky, and I was very afraid of it. At that time, we were deluded by the shadow of a chance to enter the European Union. And it all came true. These large barracks, largely rebuilt by the European Union's operational funds, are a wonderful academic campus, actually finished and equipped. The city was built for this, together with the Polytechnic, swimming pool, 50 meters swimming pool. The Faculty of Physical Education and Physiotherapy is also located there. We have a full-size swimming pool, a multipurpose swimming pool that also serves the city as a swimming pool. There is, however, a problem with communication in the area. It's a roundabout that's gonna be built there someday. This year, the University of Technology celebrates the 50th anniversary... that is, the Polytechnic celebrates the 20th anniversary. We were founded as the Higher School of Engineering in 1966. In 1996, here in the Senate, we led to the transformation of this university, along with four others, into the Opole University of Technology. The closure of communication facilities, facilities that serve not only academic youth, but also the city as a swimming pool... They are very beautifully located, right next to the Canal of Relief, low flood areas in Opole. But as high as the church in Szczepanowice, the 800-year-old church on the hill, it was never flooded. In fact, they are also a symbol of a certain history, namely the transformation of areas that belonged to Germany and which were definitely a symbol of a certain hostility towards our country, into a very useful and positive object, which is campus, a beautiful campus of polytechnics. So this is about PLN 3 million, I recommend this to the attention of the state, although in view of the various problems mentioned here I do not consider this to be the most important, although perhaps the closest to my heart. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u147	Thank you very much, Senator. And to speak, please, Senator Piotr Ziientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u148	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would definitely like to support the amendments. I won't make mine anymore, because they're the same as those amendments. Which you have reported to Senator Borowski, which concerns three institutions: the Ombudsman, NIK and the Constitutional Tribunal. Dear Senators, the argument has already been made here. First of all, the Constitutional Tribunal. I don't think we need to find out here, though the situation... At least until now, the Constitutional Tribunal as guardian, the real guardian of the Constitution, must function normally. And there are also costs on the part of the Court of Justice relating to the payment of funds to retired judges. And that is the normal consequence of the expiry of the term of office of individual judges. This is where the problem undoubtedly arises. And this situation, in terms of cost increases, is going to increase every year, but that's the consequence... These are the necessary costs of democracy that we have to bear, so to speak, without any discussion, in my opinion, because these are the powers that result from the bill. These aren't bonuses, these aren't some jubilee-related issues, they're fixed costs, which, as I just said, are increasing every year. Secondly, there is the issue of the Ombudsman's activity. The Ombudsman's activity must not be restricted. The scope of the Ombudsman's work and his activity are visible. First of all, it is about such activities as hospitalisation of prisons, checking what it is like to respect rules, human rights. But it's also a great job to study the cassation. Ladies and gentlemen, we must realise that a very large crowd of citizens as a result, in my opinion, of the wrong bill, and I am thinking here of a code of criminal proceedings which, as I say, deprives the possibility of bringing an action against the suspect or his defender, those who have received a sentence with a conditional suspension of the sentence... Very often a sentence with conditional suspension of execution is for the sentenced civilian, completely. Because it's not about the size or the ailment of punishment, it's about how I'm gonna put it, the knock on justice. This was emphasized and noted, among others. by judge Stepnia. He wrote that it was noted in the courts that there were rare cases of sentence with conditional suspension of execution in order to de facto prevent in-house control. And after all, instantaneous control, deletion is not a polemic with evidence, it is not a different assessment, it is merely an indication of gross violations of criminal procedure. That's the basis for the deletion. I'm talking about criminal proceedings. And I know that the spokesperson for these matters... 'Cause there's only a spokesperson left. Because there's an attorney general who's entitled, a minister who's very narrowly... After all, there was even a discussion in this House, it was said that it should not have such power at all, and if it is already, it should be used in very exceptional situations. And actually, the last resort... I remember, in the office of Kochanowski's spokesman, in the secretary's office, in front of the entrance, she was hanging on the board wall and it was written: "The last rescue board." Because what we're talking about here is actually the last resort for people. And this job has to be done, and it's huge. Therefore, I find it absolutely inappropriate to reduce the maintenance costs of the Ombudsman's office. There's also a repair position there. But please note: the spokesperson neither purchased these properties nor started renovations. It's all in the continuation phase. And stop... I do not know whether, from the point of view of my point of view, the reasonableness of construction is at all justified. So that these issues, primarily related to the Court and to the Ombudsman... I believe that these amendments should be supported. Now a few words about the local amendments. I make four local amendments, ladies and gentlemen. Two are small, two are bigger. One of these finer ones concerns PLN 1 million 500 thousand for the second stage of the renovation of the historic Gothic church from the 14th century, an architectural gem, namely the church on the occasion of the Assumption of the Blessed Virgin Mary in Sławno. This is a church which requires immediate renovation of the roof, both the main nave and the two nave sides of the presbytery. The foundation was established, there were and are organized shares, already collected money for documentation. This is the next stage. It's only 1.5 million. I believe that this is indeed an urgent need, and we urgently need to renovate this roof. Later, of course, there are also further stages, but here I am talking about this basic stage, the most urgent one. The second amendment, smaller, please, was reported in the Sejm. It's about increasing the contract by one ambulance, which is very much needed in Szczecin. That's 800,000 zlotys. This is very necessary in terms of the effectiveness of medical rescue. And two bigger amendments. Amendment concerning the stretch of life for Koszalin and further for Kolobrzeg, the section of road S11 between Koszalin and Bobolicy. This is the road, sir, which is especially a very dangerous road during the summer season. There are many fatal accidents on this road every year, especially on the Bobolice section of Koszalin. Unfortunately, as I said, the effects of excessive traffic resulting from the fact that this road is not in good condition are tragic. And here's the conclusion, as far as costs are concerned, about 300 million zlotys. And the last amendment is 20 million PLN for the modernisation of the Koszalin railway station. This has already been mentioned, this is a very, very necessary and necessary thing. Once again, I would like to stress that as regards the issue related to the S11 road, which is in perspective, but in the long term planned, this section is, as I said, particularly dangerous and really requires it to be brought to the S11 position. All the more so since it was introduced... a roundabout was built in Bobolice... two roundabouts, which a bit of movement, so to speak, accelerated and will be built by Szczecinek's ring road. I'm putting these corrections into the hands of your marshal. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u149	Thank you, Senator. Now please take the floor of Senator Andrzej Wojtyla.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u150	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I was just going to make an amendment that I wanted to make to the budget bill, but as a senator and scientist who's been dealing with pronatistic policy, population policy, demographic policy, I'd like to say that for the first time, I think, since 1990, because I've been in politics ever since. It deals with demography and demographic impulses, which we will definitely see for a generation, i.e. In 25, 28 years. I was here when we were discussing the 500+ program, and I was saying that we just need to think long-term. It is right that at the beginning of the 1990s we thought about developing, but it must be said that we have neglected certain things and this has caused a demographic crisis that we cannot deal with. Short-wave politicians show the green island, because we are developing very well. The countries that thought far-reaching were thinking about improving demographics and in the recent crisis in Europe, when it comes to demographic policies, they did not save money because they thought far-sightedly. And this budget is probably the first budget since 1990 aimed at the demographic development of our population, our nation, which is expected to produce in 25 years. And this is the last moment, because the peak of births that occurred in Poland in the 1980s... well, it is already ending, the reproductive abilities of women who were born in the 1980s are already ending, because when it comes to a woman, after thirty-five years of age, their reproductive abilities are already very low in relation to the ability from the time when a woman is 20 and 25 years old, because the number of reproductive cells is decreasing. And I would like to stress that in the transcript of the debate on this year's budget, we can see that this was the case. These are not just social expenses, but, above all, family expenses, allowances to encourage the birth of other and subsequent children, because it serves the development of our society, our nation, which we will see as a generation. I would like, Mr Marshal, to make an amendment which has been agreed with the Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy, which concerns the transfer of appropriations It will therefore not result in any additional expenditure From a post which was created in October 2015 in the Permanent Representation of the Republic of Poland, assigned to the Minister of Family, Labour and Salary, to the budget of the Ministry of Family. The Ministry of the Family believes that this money is more needed here, it has been discussed, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has also agreed to this, the Minister, who presented the budget here, also knows that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u151	Thank you, Senator. I now ask that you take the floor of Senator Marian the Messenger.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u152	Miss Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to make an amendment to the 2016 budget concerning the construction of the ring road by the city of Gostyn on the national road No 12. This is not an amendment, which is accidentally made because the agreements concerning the conduct of this ring road between the General Directorate of National Roads and the Management Board of the Wielkopolska Voivodeship have lasted for quite a long time, because this is about a fairly complicated communication system running through this city. Finally, I am also saying this as a representative of the local community, to the agreement, this course has been agreed in recent years, to this they are in relation to the national road and the voivodeship road path agreement with the Regional Environmental Protection Directorate, so that there are appropriate permits. In addition, for how many years there have been efforts to find funds in the budget of the Wielkopolska voivodship for the passage of this bypass within the voivodship road No 434. Even as Councilman of the Greater Poland Sejm, I fought to find funds for this purpose. Finally, they are planned in the budget of the Wielkopolska voivodship, specifically in the regional operational programme, the amount of PLN 140 million. So that now there is an opportunity to finally build this ring road, which the inhabitants have been waiting for for over 20 years. I'll add, he's probably the only one. I don't know if he's the only one. The case that the voivodship road led by the city should only run in one direction, because it runs in the opposite direction already along the district road. So the rigs are systematically passing through the windows of the residents, and they're getting more and more. Therefore, the proposal for an amendment to the budget concerning PLN 308 million so that with the help of the funds from the budget of the Wielkopolska voivodship finally this road, this bypass along the national and voivodship road in the city of Gostyn, will be built. I hope that most ladies and senators will decide to support this amendment. During the previous term of office, representatives of the opposition systematically submitted budget amendments related to this ring road, but this investment was not so prepared at the time. There were no funds guaranteed in the budget of the voivodship In order to make this investment possible. I hope that now I will find a majority to support this amendment. And that's what I'm asking. Thank you very much. I'm putting an amendment on your marshal's hands.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u153	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of the senator. Terminian. Senator Przemysław Terminski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u154	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators. I mentioned the first amendment when I asked Senator Bierecki questions, and it concerns an increase in the funds allocated to the Energy Regulatory Office. Let me just remind you briefly that in the coming times energy will have to develop strongly, but also change strongly, and the office plays a key role in this change. Hence the proposal to increase funding by PLN 1 million 800 thousand. This is the amount referred to by the President of the Energy Regulatory Office, indicating it as necessary to carry out the statutory tasks of the Energy Regulatory Office. I'm not gonna repeat myself because when I asked you questions, I already made an argument. The second amendment, or actually three more amendments in my opinion, are in the spirit of yesterday's speech by Prime Minister Szydło and Prime Minister Morawiecki, who point to the need to develop the economy through the development of innovation. In order to be innovative, some intellectual facilities are needed. And in this spirit I have prepared these amendments. They are related to the transfer of funds to the Toruń University and to the very special junior high and high school in Toruń. As far as higher education is concerned, two departments in Toruń need... [[Voice from the hall: What high school?]] Nicolaus Copernicus University. The 2 departments of the University of Nicholas Copernicus need support for ongoing renovations in order to educate better scientists in better conditions, who will then play a key role in this innovation. It's the Chemistry Department and the Physics Department. In the first case, it is about guaranteeing the possibility of covering property expenditure of 38 million, in the second case it is a much smaller amount, namely PLN 1 million 300 000. Part of this amendment concerns the co-financing of the activities of secondary school and academic high school. Ladies and gentlemen, a while ago in Toruń there was a high school and a high school. It is a unit of the Nicolaus Copernicus University. This is a very special middle school that educates particularly talented young people from all over the country. This is one of the best high schools and junior high schools in the whole country. It faces everyday problems related to the lack of sufficient funding from the sponsor, the Nicolaus Copernicus University in Toruń. It is functioning thanks to the help of the Marshal of the Voivodship, thanks to the help of President Torun. The amount of needs for the next year was estimated at PLN 150 thousand. This is not a big amount, but it guarantees that a hundred and dozen kids, especially talented kids from all over the country, will be able to continue their studies. I would like to make such amendments to the hands of the marshal, with the distribution of sources of funding, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u155	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u156	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Continuing with the thread, I hope that I will be able to finish it, and I will begin with the fact that I am glad that Senator Bierecki has returned. [[Oh, I've been listening, I've been listening.]] I would just like to say that this budget, particularly seen by you, I'm gonna quote a few things right here. I hope you're talking a little differently about this budget today, and that's what you're hearing... I just want to say that what was the subject of your criticism, and today is not... Yeah, I'm glad. Because I would like to say that this budget, apart from certain shortcomings, in the form of an ineffective programme and a few other things that I have spoken about and about which I am about to speak, is a budget which is cut as far as Poland can. In my view, there are many things in this budget that I agree with, such as what concerns science spending and not just what I had reservations about earlier. But I'd like to say, Senator Bierecki, that what was the subject... I have all your speeches here, and I will not quote them, but I will say that when you referred to those budgets that are identical, similar, you said that if just the state of the finances that the Minister presents, i.e. The fact that PIT is growing by 6.2%, VAT by 4%... what can you call such a country? You're asking rhetorically. And you say, "This is Neverland." And when we look at the budget indicators... And I would like to quote you: the cost of debt service increases, the cheapness of the state, Poles pay higher taxes each year, and they get less and less, etc., etc. I'm the one who's going to read what's in the study office, in the study of Professor Jastrzębowska, in the study we have on the budget. Let me just remind you that in 2015 revenue was 286 billion and in 2016 PLN 314 billion. What does that tell you? Poles will pay more money to the budget. On the issue of deficit, it was 28 billion in 2014, and now there are 54 billion PLN. But as for what Mr Bierecki was referring to so-called Neverland, I will say that the element that illustrates whether this is the budget of the breakthrough, whether it is the budget in which there are some elements of the previous policy, is that in 2014 net lending needs were at the level of 43 billion PLN, in 2015 it was about 6.5% more, they have increased to PLN 58 billion, and now there is an increase of 27%. So all of these social announcements are being implemented by you from the increased burden you're pulling out of your citizens and from the increase in your debt. Therefore, in the figures of real public debt in 2015, as the professor's study states, it is 883 billion PLN and in 2016 925 billion PLN. Well, it's probably some kind of growth that you're making. Therefore, I hope that this budget that is needed, in the area of macro assumptions, in the area of revenue, will be implemented, that there will be no need to correct the budget in terms of increasing the burden. I hope that it will be implemented in terms of efficiency resulting from the assumptions. But what is also important? An important element of progress is spending on the innovative economy and on investments in general. It's just two little things. If Prime Minister Morawiecki says that wage increases can only happen with productivity growth and therefore innovation, I am very happy. I would like to say that in 2005 there was 0.5% for innovation in the budget. GDP, now it's over 0.9% and we are among the countries that have made the biggest leap in the innovation economy. But for investments that are directly allocated to the budget, there were about PLN 25 billion in the previous budget, now there are PLN 12 billion. It can therefore be said that this budget is a little less investment in property investments, as the Minister said. That is why I hope that this budget, as I said, on the revenue side, will be implemented 100% on the macro basis. , and on the expenditure side, all the objectives that he assumes will be achieved regardless of our comments in the debates, whether on the budget, or on the law 500+. After all, if one of the main problems discussed by Poles today is the issue of wages, then the question arises... I hope there was a minimum wage in that blue briefcase. We haven't really discussed it yet. 12 PLN per hour. [[It will be.]] It's gonna be, isn't it? I know it will be. If we're talking about the fact that... $1,000 850, that's a minimum wage and you're saying she's too low. I believe that since she is at a level higher than in all the countries of the people's democracy... Although my colleague corrected me and said no, no, he's lower than the East Germans. That's right. In any case, there is a process that Mr Morawiecki also outlined yesterday. These elements must take place at a certain time. And I hope that the said elements concerning and wages, and increasing productivity... Because it is also related to the investment in the innovative economy. And I just want to remind you that it was the previous government that adopted a resolution on the spending on the economy based on innovation, that adopted PLN 485 billion for expenditure in this area. Anyway, what I'm talking about is going to be something that I hope will be implemented by you. If we add additional resources to the aforementioned PLN 485 billion, then glory, that is good, because only productivity growth will be linked to the rise in wages and the increase in the wealth of Poles. Mr. Marshal, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u157	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Grzegorz Bierecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u158	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Senator Czarnobaj and I love this kind of debate, but I need to get your memory back. The senator reminded me of my speeches, which were actually always about the same thing when we talked about the budget. I always asked why we weren't looking for money where they were. I meant bank tax and large-area store tax. Why are we cutting small money for people who don't make enough money? After all, it was the main message with which for four years we performed here on the occasion of budgets. We asked why the cost of living for the poor is disproportionately large to the rich. Why do foreign companies have such an endorado in Poland? Why do foreign banks have such an endorado in Poland and overuse their position on our market, after all being guests in our economy? I'll say it again: guests. They're the guests in our country and they shouldn't be setting the rules for this market. They should adapt to the rules that we make, because we are hosts in our country, although only now we have a government that thinks exactly that: that we are hosts. in our country. For the last eight years, or perhaps even more, for 26 years of transformation, we have had years of sale and destruction of national assets, wasteful, or, after all, ordinary thieving, which maybe the Seym investigative committees will now investigate. I'm saying all this to remind you... You have touched, Mr. Senator, my favorite subject, my horse, the debt issue and the impact of debt on public finances, on the opportunities for the development of our economy. So I want to remind you that when Donald Tusk became Prime Minister in 2007, the public debt was PLN 530 billion, and when the coalition PO PSL was giving up power, after which now so much despairing on the streets, the debt was about 880 billion PLN. And this despite the jump on OFE in the meantime, it was 150 billion PLN. When the OFE jump was carried out, we were counting... I told you myself, you're probably gonna eat that money in three years. And that's probably what it looks like right now, since debt needs to be increased again, but only in nominal amounts. I'd like to remind you. It is clear in this budget Although this debt in this budget increases nominally by 42 billion, in relation to GDP it falls, it falls by 0.1%. , up to approximately 49%. This, of course, is the best measure, because we're talking about ability to repay. Except we have a bad debt structure that you've worked out over the years, because we have over 30% of the debt in foreign currencies, and in fact half of the debt under the control of foreign rulers, decision-makers. This is the scale of the problem and the scale of the devastation that has occurred in recent years. It can't be changed quickly. I know that the Senators and Senator Czarnobaj put great faith in the abilities of the PIS government. I'm sure we'll try, work nights to fix what you've ruined all these years. But this is not going to happen so soon, because the decline of Minister Rostowski, who was a record holder in the history of finance ministers... He should get some reward, a crown or a deer's horns for making us almost 400 billion of this debt. It was a record-breaking pace, it is an absolute feat in the history of Polish finance. This is the kind of thing we struggle with, and it can't be done with jokes, it can't be thrown away by a story about Poland in ruins. You know, you showed us spots, stories about buildings, bridges, built roads. I've seen the same nice bridges and the same nice buildings in Greece, and that doesn't mean that the state of Greek finances is excellent. The state of Polish finances after 8 years of government of PO and PSL, or maybe a longer period of government of the same people who appear under different other names, because now they are also in modern, and in other groups, we see them also walking in demonstrations of the Defence Committee of Democracy, after the period of government of these people requires a lot of action and effort, which will be and is being undertaken. Another is the philosophy of this budget. This state budget is pursuing a government policy that appeals to citizens, very strongly focuses on family policies, and these are important differences. You can't say, Mr. Senator, that this is your budget, that this is a budget continuing the same philosophy you've been presenting so far. He makes important changes, but these important changes cannot be made immediately, in one year. Anyway, you can see where it's going, and I assure you, Senator, it's going the right way. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u159	Thank you, Senator. [[As part of the replica.]] Senator Czarnobaj as part of the replica, three minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u160	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! Yes, it is a great pleasure to share with you experience and knowledge, so I would also like you to take a few comments from a person who may not have as much experience with money as you do, but can count in the sense of posts. Mr. Senator, I understand and accept what you've said, that these 26 years are the continuous collapse of this country. This is an axiom, and you don't argue with axioms. I accept, okay, amen. But it can't be like this. You understand that well, I think you do, too. The increase in public debt through a deficit was, of course, due to a situation that, you might say, was a major crisis... You could say, and what we cared about, you had to make a self-balance budget. So here's what I'm gonna say: in the course of these, like you said, 8 years went up from 530 to 830, that's 350 billion... [[880...]] Yeah, that's three hundred and a half billion zlotys. And that, of course, consists of issues relating to the crisis, but also the absorption of EU funds and other issues. If we multiply 54 billion this year for eight years, what does that give us? It is easy to calculate what amount it will give if we adopt these wonderful budget assumptions. That's one thing. Secondly, it's always been a nice song of yours: let's reach into deep pockets. And you reached for deep pockets, very deep pockets. I think you know who's gonna hit the store tax, who's gonna pay for it, you knew it right away. I'm sure it's not bourgeois for you from the West. [[It hasn't been approved yet...]] But it will be passed, so we will pay all those sitting here and those who are in Poland. What is the tax, how easy it is to give it, you can see. And now, about the bank tax issues... Well, who's to say, but you, Mr. Senator, know the banks, you know who these taxes are, they're gonna pay. So the planned amounts of 8 or 10 billion more for the new policy are from two sources: increasing the deficit and increasing the burden of Poles, taking one, giving it to inefficient spending and saying that this is a good budget. I will not quote any further, but after this statement I understand one of your statements from previous years that, due to the unfriendly atmosphere in this country, which prevails in relation to companies operating in the West, companies carry out their interests to the West. And now, after all these years, I've understood what you've said from the debates we've been having here. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u161	Thank you. Senator Jan Rulewski will speak. [[Mr. Marshal, as part of the replica.]] You're welcome, but after Senator Rulewski. Yes? [[Yeah, yeah.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u162	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr President, I have already had the impression that the views of some important people in the PiS have been moderated as they try to combine electoral arithmetic with budgetary arithmetic, i.e. government governance. In the meantime, you finally let go of your fantasy, using terms such as economic devastation, robbery economy, foreign capital hassling, and add huge debt to it, thus, of course, accusing the predecessors, but I think that also creating a convenient ground for a trampoline to build some new Poland, based on, as Mr. Morawiecki, wunderwaffe PiS says, Responsible development, as if development was not usually responsible. It's socialism that reminds me of the idea that there's a socialist democracy that the party is classy... [[He's good.]] Okay, well, we're about to have a responsible development. I'd like it to be real development, and in that I'd compromise. However, I would like to tell you that there are other situations, apart from the robbery, there are still so-called devastations. Forced situations. A number of countries are subject to forced economic situations. Today I can say all of them. The United States, the military-political-geographical-economic empire, is also subject to restrictions due to the fact that the economy has become global. The U.S. deficit seems to be breaking records, and the US debt is definitely hitting the head of Poland. But that's not what's important, it's what assets are, it's what they're worth. You know that better than anyone. You really stood behind this spring for Polish capital, great capital, let's be honest, created on a reduced basis. I've been watching it. Did this capital raise any other country? Like Ukraine or the Czech Republic? No, the other way around, it's in regression. Can you blame yourself for that? Part of it is, because you didn't see the end of it. SKOK-i did not become a Polish export product despite the investments that were made for them. It's a matter of sharing objects. You almost made your premises available to the SKOKs for free, as I read in the statement. What am I saying this for? It is precisely so that we can gain some consensus in order for Poland to develop rather than melt down in these disputes and accusations in these tribunals. You have announced the appointment of a committee. How many investigative committees were there? They always led to the same thing. At the head of these committees were politicians and PiS, and Platforms, and SLDs. But what are they supposed to prove? All they're gonna do is prove that we were, so to speak, on a musket. In fact, what does this accusation and another war lead to? You call for the recidivism of socialism, because when you say, Mr President, that good factories have been devastated, it means that you think they were good. The socialist ones, measured by the chimney height, the length of the hall and the size of employment. Is that what we're going back to? [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Applause]] In fact, it was... [[You want it, Jackie...]] I will add that I have recently been to Belarus. That's where they're looking for people to work at the biggest truck factory. There are no people to work there, and people work one day a week. So there is no way, Mr President, of going back to that time, not least to lie to people. We are now living in an environment of truth and this truth I also expect from the President. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u163	Thank you, Senator. Senator Grzegorz Bierecki. Senator, you have five minutes, but you can also speak three minutes as part of the replica. What do you choose?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u164	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I can do five minutes, I can do three minutes. Let's see how long it takes. [[But I need to know...]] It's five minutes. [[Second performance. There you go.]] Thank you very much. I think it's worth correcting some... [[It's a lie.]] That's right, a lie. That's what the senator tells me. Or is it inaccuracies? That's what I'd call it. I'm not saying everything went wrong in the past twenty-six years. I'm not saying that. [[Voice from the room: Ooh! No?]] I'm saying... [[You have to listen, gentlemen.]] Listen up. A lot of people have been successful, new institutions have emerged... [[We're listening.]] [[Listen, not talk.]] I mean, it could have gone better. That's what I'm saying. And if we look at the experiences of other countries, close to us, even neighbouring countries, that have started from a similar level and have not made the mistakes that have been made here, countries that have not been subjected to such ideological fictitiousness, I can still hear them in your statements. We'll see that it could have been much better. The fact that we are in debt abroad, that we have not created a solid base for Polish long-term savings, is that Poles still make very little money, that the productivity of Poles' work has increased significantly in recent years, but it has not been followed by wages, that people do not put aside, do not have savings, that the fruits of Poles' work are intercepted by foreign companies that draw excessive profits from our country, that the money they have earned does not work for households and does not create domestic savings, and then we have to owe ourselves to the same foreign groups that draw fruit from our work and export it abroad These are the things I'm talking about. I keep saying that all the time, and now I've decided to say it quickly. Mr. Senator was making fun of responsible development. Yes, development can be irresponsible, development can be harmful. I used to have cancer, and I know it's growing, but you don't want it to grow. [[But it's not a development. It's not a development.]] There are also different kinds of progress. Sometimes progress, which is preached, supported by people who now believe that some progress has suddenly been stopped, which has been made in Poland for many years... In situations like this, it always reminds me of my sleep. A professor who said that there's no telling what's progressive, but there's one thing that's definitely progressive. And this is, sir, paralysis. Paralysis is undoubtedly progressive and can be documented. And everything else is just a slogan, a sticker... Let's not use these passwords and stickers. Let us try to work for our country with all our strength and as well as we can. Committees of Investigation... I don't announce the formation of a committee of inquiry. I told you. We hear what is said in the Sejm Perhaps such committees of inquiry will be set up. We were talking about a VAT hole. Probably worth tracking down how that black hole was created. And now we're talking about the industry and the socialism that we're going to build here. I was talking about the money being sold for nothing. It wasn't that long ago that you sold Ciech's company. Right? For half the value these shares were sold... It's a public message. These were the privatization deals, so the property was sold. I'm sure you have to stop doing that. Surely we need to consider whether these processes cannot be effectively reversed. In my understanding, and in my experience, if someone sells someone not their assets to someone He's just his handler. For half his value, it just commits a crime. The programme you were joking about, when you said we wanted to introduce new socialism, is a programme that is currently being implemented in most European countries. We're talking about a reindustrialization that actually started in the United States. Once in the United States, the whole industry was thought to be the best way to get to Mexico. Right? But they came to their senses and realized that they needed factories at home, that they needed factories because they gave them the need for knowledge, they gave them the need for better specialists, they were the basis for building a well-educated and wealthy society. This reindustrialisation is necessary if we are to talk about an innovative economy. If we are to talk about a competitive economy in the world, we need to tell ourselves that we need Polish factories and Polish capital. This Polish capital must be created in different ways. I hope that Mr Morawiecki's plan will succeed. I wish him well, and I wish my country well for this to work. One last thing. Why are the skoks whose father I am... I don't deny this fatherhood, although as you know, Senators, I haven't been president in four good years... [[But his is there.]] You know, Mr. Senator, when I look at my sons, I see my features in their faces. I don't see anything wrong with that. And in those SKOKs that can cope despite their struggles and compete on the market, I don't see anything wrong either. Let them grow, let them work. They're never here to correct one thing, to tell the senator. It was not intended to be an export product. This is a cooperative that is owned by members of individuals. And that's what's different from companies and companies operating on the basis of capital, not about people, that they're always owned by local people. I contributed to the creation of money for Poles in Lithuania The Credit Union of the Region of Vilnius. She is owned by Poles living there. I contributed to the fact that more than 200 such funds were created in Ukraine, I trained the management of these funds in our centre in Władysławów. But this money is the property of these people. Because I believe that the best capital is capital, which is the property of the people he's supposed to serve. And in that sense, we probably agree with the senator because we both have a union soul. Happy birthday. [[Applause]] [[In corrigendum mode.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u165	Thank you, Senator. [[In corrigendum mode, Mr. Marshal.]] I now ask the floor of Senator Kazimierz Wind. [[In correction mode, because my title and arguments were used.]] That's after Senator Kazimierz Wind. [[Okay, okay.]] There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u166	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I was gonna start with my last performance, but luckily, I'm not... It's always more handy. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, much has already been said, but the budget bill is too important not to add any more thoughts. It can even be said that this is the most important law adopted annually, because it is an extremely important element, an instrument for shaping the development and functioning of the state. Yesterday, Deputy Prime Minister Morawiecki presented Poland's development strategy. It's very important. And this year's budget of our country is primarily this family supplement related to having children, called short 500+. This huge expenditure was managed to be included in the state budget for 2016, balancing the remaining state expenditure. Of course, we are discussing the details and details of this program and this law, but it must be emphasized that this is a completely new quality in Polish demographic policy, pro-family policy, pro-development policy. It is right that Prime Minister Szydło emphasizes that children are an investment, not a cost, because we know that the state budget is both cost and investment, it is rigid expenditure and expenditure that can be changed. It would be desirable that these promotional expenditures be as much as possible. Of course, it requires a lot of intellectual effort to turn part of the cost into an investment. This is possible, although difficult, the context, legal environment, other investment expenditure is important. Investment is extremely important because it brings revenue to the state budget in the future or develops other pro-development elements. A good host redistributes resources by examining both the needs and the expected benefits. The answer to these questions is shaped in the short, medium and long term perspective. And that is often the problem, because most of the best investments go beyond the term of the Sejm, Senate and Government, but they must be undertaken. That's why the 500+ bill is enjoying it. Such tasks include the upbringing of the young generation and its education, but also science and higher education. In the context of yesterday's speech by Prime Minister Morawiecki, I would also like to add that it is important to build a stable environment for an innovative economy. We know that this great project POIR, the Operational Programme of Intelligent Development, brings science closer to the economy, but for this science itself to be a partner, it requires stable power supply. The point is that, you might say, the depth of the modern economy has a good basis. This is, of course, connected with business resources for science, but above all with resources for science from the state budget, because business resources only go to science when this science represents a certain level, and this requires financial resources. Another extremely important element is the number of people employed in the R &amp; D sector per thousand inhabitants. In this respect, We have a lot to do, many European countries are far ahead. It must also be said that the development programme being prepared, including the Intelligent Development Operational Programme, which is already in operation, required the removal of many barriers, not only the Public Procurement Act, but also a number of bureaucratic barriers, the lack of flexibility of solutions... This requires a lot of effort, including legislation. I am not quoting figures on both our country and the European and global context, but there is no doubt that our spending on science is still insufficient for higher education. Yet we have unique human capital in Poland with a very large potential for an innovative economy. My dream for years is that Poland's export goods will become licences and patents. Of course, the role of education is huge. We know that educational expenditures are very large each year, that they are distributed with the participation of local governments, that it is still subject to various discussions, but also there is no doubt that the success of science and higher education depends on the condition of Polish education. That's why it's extremely, extremely important. Because the successes in further stages of education and development of young people start in primary school. There is no doubt that raising the level of school education serves to restore the compulsory school age of 7 years. Of course, general education is also very important. I have told you many times that a computer scientist who has studied history is a better computer scientist, and a historian who has studied physics is a better historian. And I think that's what we should be doing. I would also like to mention sport, which is close to upbringing, not only in the Senate, but also in reality. We know that this is a healthful education, but also an education of character traits, promotion of Poland. It's all very important. I cannot fail to mention an extremely important issue, about the return of measures concerning Polish and Polish people abroad from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the Senate. That's very exciting. I think we have a good tradition and experience here. Besides, the expectations of Poles abroad and Polonia were such that this would happen. I would like to stress that at the meeting of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, I tabled an amendment concerning the transfer of another 2 million from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs funds to the Ministry of National Education to education of Polish people and Poles abroad, to run it by the Ministry of National Education. There is no doubt that it will do the right thing. This amendment was supported by the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, which is why I ask you to support this amendment. Of course, the Committee on Science, Education and Sport also gave an opinion on the budgets of the Main Office of Measures, the Polish Committee for Standardization and the Polish Academy of Sciences, as well as the Patent Office, and this is all about the area of development. It's worth saying that this potential... Well, it can be measured differently, but if we looked at the statistics, we'd see that in terms of population we're in the thirty-sixth place, in terms of the economy of the measured GDP, the twenty-second, and in terms of reported and given inventions, the fifteenth place, the utility patterns. Fifteenth place in the world, with industrial designs, 16th place. To conclude, then, I would like to say that we have been witnessing the extremely dynamic development of our civilization for many years now, an information society and an economy based on knowledge is being built, and science and education are the basis of this revolution. She will decide what our place in the world will be in a year, two years and another five or ten years. Therefore, once again, I would like to say that a good host invests funds where the investment is repeated, where profitability is greatest. I have no doubt that science, education, education, higher education, as well as sport are certainly such areas, so it is worth remembering this also in subsequent budgets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u167	Thank you, Senator. Mr. Senator Rulewski, on the way to the replica. Mr. Senator, only three minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u168	Yes, yes, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Mr. Chairman, the senator used arguments with which to... I have to answer, like, double. First of all, he was convinced that this program, which Prime Minister Morawiecki is presenting... was a program with which I identify when it comes to reindustrialisation. Besides, he used even more factual arguments to talk about selling Ciechu for a priceless price. I could turn it around and say that the SKOK empire ends up under the SKOK empire... Because it was an empire. Thousands of cooperatives, large social energy, capital use, small start-up. However, there is no denying that several parts of this empire end up like the Polish People's Republic. This closure in your own fences causes... what you're saying is that it's going to be an economy that's more turned towards the people, and it ends in their failure. Investments in SKOKs have, unfortunately, limited opportunities. But I think you're making an even bigger mistake when you say Ciech was sold at a price. In my territory and in my constituency, there are three bets that belonged to the Ciech Group. Ciech finished... It was also an empire, actually, one of the largest in Central Europe chemistry. The Ciech, which in cash had a few million zlotys for financial operations with the value of several hundred billion zlotys and debt, with unbuilt bonds, with several hundred billion zlotys, ended precisely because he was using isolationist policies. In Bydgoszcz factories, huge, huge, needed in Poland... So to speak, we're sitting on these plants, on this foam, on dyes, on some military equipment; I'm not going to replace them. Despite the support of European capital, Ciech's special capital ended with enormous losses, it was not possible to save it. Despite the effort, all of them could not be saved. And tonight with this. This results in the state budget, in the budget of your government, no aid for Ciechu, no aid for the Industrial Development Agency. Other bets were bought by a Polish capitalist, you can say oligarch Kulczyk. And Soda... [[Thank you, Senator...]] Soda's making a profit today. There's no strikes, there's a raise, and there's no need for budget... So I would like PiS not to lead the Polish economy astray. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u169	That's it. Okay, thank you. I'd like the floor of Senator Tomasz Grodzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u170	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Dear guests! Konrad Adenauer built the power of Germany in this way: economic freedom, social sensitivity, and compliance with the decalogue. Economic freedom is the foundation of each country's development. The imposition of fiscal burdens that we have recently experienced is, I believe, not the right way to improve our economy. I will quote Milton Friedman, who is one of the major authorities in economics and the free market: Poland should not imitate the wealthy Western countries because it is not a rich Western country. Poland should imitate the solutions that Western countries used when they were as poor as Poland. This is all ahead of us. I feel like we've been trying to get off this path of sustainable development, reasonable development or real development lately. But it's just a digression. As far as the amendments are concerned, of course I tabled regional amendments, similar to those tabled by my fellow Members of the Sejm, but I also tabled an amendment in favour of seniors, for those who built this country regardless of the system in which it reigned, with full dedication, and now they live to an old age, as we know. Not everyone has succeeded. This year we have allocated 17 billion to the 500+ programme, extremely important, useful, important for our country. Let's do a little bit more than the symbolic amount of 125 million for the 75+ free drug program. Minister Majszczyk was kind to mention that these medicines will cost around 800 million, but if we make estimates of all medicines that are bought by seniors, then there is a figure of PLN 2 billion 600 million. Therefore, I propose not to wait until September for this program, because preparing a short list of medicines is not so laborious. I propose that we increase the amount for this programme to at least PLN 0.5 billion when we put it opposite to 17 billion per child, it turns out that it is not a large amount. This year, because next year, as the Ministry declares, if the budget does not recover, it will amount to a total of 560 million. This is the amount that ensures the operation of this programme. If it is not to be facaded and it is not to be merely the fulfilment of the electoral promises, then it is worth considering what I ask you to do. I don't know how much Ciech was sold. As far as I am concerned, this is a slightly more complex problem than it was presented here in these short speeches. But what worries me is how much the budget will lose on the first contract, which Law and Justice initialed with the hands of the President of Jasinski, appointed immediately after taking over the government as president of the largest Polish company, Orlen. Well, he immediately signed a three-year oil transfer agreement to Poland at a price of $40 per barrel, when Brent's oil on the stock exchanges that day cost $31, and all industry magazines said that if sanctions for Iran were to be lifted during the period of this agreement, i.e. 3 years, even greater reductions in oil prices are to be expected. I wonder how many millions or hundreds of millions of dollars the state budget will lose on this. And that's what worries me. Therefore, if we seek a blade in our neighbor's eye, let us also seek a beam in our own, for he who is blameless cast the first stone. If we evaluate the programme of Prime Minister Morawiecki, every Prime Minister who, as responsible for economic affairs, announces such a programme, we should of course wish him good luck, because I agree with Senator Bierecki here, and I also feel that despite the differences that divide us, the welfare of our country is at our heart. Only, as Friedman said, one of the biggest mistakes is judging political, economic and government programmes based on their intentions, not results. I'm afraid, as always, we want to do well, and with that budget shape, it's gonna come out as usual. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u171	Thank you. Please take the floor of Senator Marek Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u172	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I was encouraged here by my colleagues to refer more thoroughly to the program presented by your Deputy Prime Minister Morawiecki, but this is a large program and I would have to have much more time to refer to it. In fact, I support what my previous speaker said: the intentions are really excellent there. I, too, am in favour of an average Pole achieving in 15 years the wage that will be paid in the EU in 15 years. In five years' time, I'm in favour of 80% of GDP. EU average GDP. I'm in favour of the industry expanding to make drones fly. I'm behind all of this, and I want to say it right away, and I support these goals. But there is nothing to say, because the Prime Minister himself and his deputy, Mr Kwieciński, said clearly that when it comes to the instruments to lead to this, it is still necessary to wait about 6 months to 9 months for them to be developed. So then we're gonna talk about instruments, and then we're gonna talk about effects. So that today I wish the Prime Minister success, and with the evaluation... Although, as I say, some macroeconomic categories that you presented to Prime Minister Morawiecki, as it is said popularly, do not stick. But let's leave it. We'll wait for all of this to happen, as long as the electoral promises are fulfilled. Things are different for now. Today, Prime Minister Morawiecki, when asked about the franc bill, said that the President had prepared the project because he promised, but he will not push it. This is a very distinctive statement. And on the occasion of this... Of course, you support the government, this is your government, and you have to believe this government, that's quite clear; I would be surprised if it weren't. But this is about faith: in the previous meeting, when we discussed the 500 PLN programme for each child Well, not for each, but for the second and next children, there was a small one, so to speak, the polemics between me and Senator Professor Wind. Yes, sir. Senator Wind has already pulled out a pen to write my words... [[A pen.]] A pen, yes. Well, the professor came after my statement, questioned it in a way and said this: Senator Borowski quoted my supposed statement, saying that Senator Wind said, and I quote: I believe that the government will make the money. Well, that wasn't the word, Mr. Senator. Yes, I was talking about the committee's budget meetings, but those weren't the words. And yet, apparently, Senator Borowski likes to refer to me and to my statements. Well, I admit I do. [[Joy in the Chamber]] I thought to myself, "Well, the wrong man is, isn't he?" [[Unreciprocated...]] Ha, that's too bad. We're four years old, Mr. Senator, maybe you'll like it. I thought to myself, "The wrong man is, maybe he is..." But I looked at the transcript and it turned out that I said the following, namely: Senator Wind, who said: I believe that we will make this money. That's right, you guys believe me. And I'm based on hard data, numbers... It was simply about how much this programme will be financed in the future, and I referred to the words of the professor who said that I believe that we will make this money. That's what the professor questioned. In the meantime, I have reached out to Professor Wind and I quote literally: "We believe that the measures taken will lead to real economic growth and that there will be no shortage of other areas... Well, ladies and gentlemen... [[It's a little different...]] No, no, Professor... [[It's a little different.]] Well, no, of course that wasn't an exact quote, because I wasn't able to recall an exact quote, but the point is identical. I meant whether these measures, especially those related to the addition of 500 zloty, as well as other promises, such as the tax-free amount or the reduction in the retirement age, could be financed in the future. And I noticed that Professor Wind said that he believed that, yes, there would be money for it, that you would use it, and I had a slightly different opinion. And it turns out that the professor just said that, he only used the word we believe, and I don't believe, that is, he used the plural, which, of course, I understand. So, Professor, I wanted to apologize to you, but I have nothing to apologize for. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u173	Thank you, Senator. [[It's me, however, as a correction...]] Okay, as a correction, but maybe after Senator Hare. You're welcome, Senator Joseph the Hare.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u174	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm taking the floor at the end, probably according to the first letter of the name... But I see you're still gonna get me. I would like to say this: perhaps in spite of the will, many of us have escaped the attention here that there is a point in the budget bill... Because of him, I must say, I am very happy and I am proud that our country can finally afford to look towards science. I'm talking about a 6% increase. a fund dedicated to science. It's beautiful. It's been a long time since this happened to our budget. And if you take into account the situation in which the Polish science is in, it is very important for it to be able, so to speak, to enrich, to power. So that we can travel slightly higher in international classifications in terms of results in different rankings presented by different institutions. 'Cause unfortunately, it's an area we don't really have much to boast about. We're supposed to be in 18th or 20th place somewhere, and we're in, if I remember correctly from one of our committee's meetings, thirty-second or thirty-fourths. We are after the introduction of a new law on higher education, which has been worked on for a very long time. The bill is huge, it counts about 100 pages. It seems to me that few of us have read it thoroughly. It happened that I have been since the beginning of this law, because I represented the Conference of Rectors of Public Professional Schools... There is a point in this law that I would very much like to draw attention to. In view of these 100 pages, he has escaped the attention of those who were merely reviewing the bill. I mean, in a very clever, even intelligent way, our universities have been classified. There's some rank and so on, there's a lot of it. And among all of this, in all of this, so to speak, the ranking of universities, there appeared a position which I as a scientific worker with many years of experience since I graduated from higher education, the Polish Academy of Sciences, Finland, Japan, etc. It excludes those who will be able to use the money for scientific activities. What have we got there? A whole group of academics of professional universities today it is more than 36 universities, and it can, as has been said, submit applications. But it was added immediately: you can submit applications, but you are not one of those licensed to conduct scientific research. If I worked at a higher-ranking college... I have the same skills, the same skills I can do, you can look at my math publications, very high scored Who knows if it's the highest in the country? But I'm out of margin. Therefore, speaking on this matter, on behalf of myself and many others, I think that it will be about 20% of the researchers in Poland, and I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this one, I would say, is costing us a lot of money, because the work I do as an employee associated with Finland once ends up in basic terms with the Finnish acquis. In Poland, the law said no lzia. Why? I don't know. Perhaps this is about the idea that once was said, that if we focus everything in one place, we will achieve such a great result that the world will want to see us. And I'm just saying right now, if we put everything together in one place, it could be such a big bump that we're not gonna move over the 30th place. And if, in the future, such great laws are being passed, I would like us to read them, because we do not always pay attention in committees to the fact that we divide society into classes and groups. We think one should be like a dog's house, and the other we say, "What are you doing here?" It was a moment when I felt a little sorry for myself. When I saw the increase in the budget allocated to science. 'Cause I'm not gonna be able to apply for money that goes to school. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u175	Thank you, Senator. As part of the replica, Senator Kazimierz Wind. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u176	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I would ask for your understanding that I will strain your patience here, but in view of the strange interpretation that my words have been subjected to, I am obliged to explain the situation. I thought Senator Borowski had something important to say, because he started so dignifiedly, from the program presented by your Deputy Prime Minister Morawiecki, and ended up with certain verbal games to which I must refer. It must be said that basically something else is meant by the words that I said, and something else by words that were quoted as mine, and mine were not. So I'm going to try to say all this in short words. I'm gonna quote from memory, just like it happened at the last Senate meeting. I hope that the government will be able to make money for 500+. That's more or less what I hope. It means either I don't believe it or... I hope so. It may happen that the government of these funds will not make it, that is, either there will be a budget hole, or, let's say, in November these allowances will cease to be paid, while the senator quoted it today from the card, I assume that the real words Well, after all, ladies and gentlemen, there's basically something else, because... Well, first of all, it's relative, which means other important, because science can be 0.3%. GDP, may be 0.6% GDP, may be 0.8% GDP and we can discuss what is more important and what is more pro-development. So that I think that the dialect brought to perfection also has limits, Mr. Senator. Unlike other people, I don't necessarily like polemics with the senator, but this correction is quite important. In fact, today I outlined very generally selected pro-development elements, even it can be said strongly enigmatic. But using such highly specific rhetoric or dialectics, you can deform and discuss each sentence out of context. I remember. Senator Rulewski, maybe. He remembers that too. That in August 1981 there were such famous negotiations of Solidarity with the Government. And I remember then satirists were ordered to interrupt these negotiations. They were joking about the fact that in these arrangements, the agreement was only changed to "yes," and everything was in line. [[That's what happened.]] Well, there was something like that, and I quote from my memory. Maybe that's all it takes to correct it. I have to say, I'm surprised. Because today I hear here in this hall of appeal: medicines for seniors for free, 500 PLN for each child unconditionally. Well, it's been eight years, you should have done that. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u177	Thank you, Senator. There you go, Senator Grzegorz Pekkis.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u178	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm an employee of the Silesian University of Technology every day, Professor. I'll talk very briefly about science. This bill you've been calling for is a little bit bigger, and I've been reading it lately, and there's a lot of kicks, and that's how I see it. A warrant, a ruthless order for physical education classes in the field studies that people at 50 years of age come to, and I can't imagine how they're supposed to come after the gym... If we look around... well, they're your peers and suddenly they get a warrant to treat this wuefu as something mandatory. But these are such delicate nuances that do not reflect the essence of the problem. The problem of Polish science today is that we as a country do not subsidise innovation, but we do subsidize scientists. We don't do science, but scientists... [[Some of them.]] Some, unfortunately, some, only the highest ones in the category. We don't really donate to other countries' economies. Scientists spend a fortune, these are several thousand disposable fees, to publish their materials in the so-called. the press on the list And that's the list. A, list B, etc. To have points. Scientists are only accounted for... 90% These are the points for publications in Philadelphia letters, A letters, B letters, etc. Scientists are hardly accounted for by actual cooperation with industry at all. Scientists are hardly accounted for in patenting at all, it's almost gone from scientific value. When we talk about innovation, patents are the basis for innovative solutions, and these have disappeared from this category. [[Yes, sir.]] When we talk about development, development is industrial cooperation, and it's gone. When we are talking at all about science and not about scientists, please note that no university is taken into account in the accounting of achievements. This activity is causing... what's causing it? Labs disappeared at the Silesian University of Technology, technical labs disappeared, because there's no one to work with, because no scientist is going to get it. Not to mention the money. Science points for lab work, preparation for classes. It's a matter of science, and it's very... We are preparing such a study, I will prepare it with colleagues from scientists, in order to improve the situation that we will try to present to the Minister. But today, if that money is really going to be We will pay attention to the fact that they are not devoted to scientists, but to science. And one more thing. There's something I'm a little short on this budget. I understand there wasn't much time, but I think next year it has to appear in the budget. It is about developing inland transport, in particular river transport in Oder. In the vicinity of Kędzierzyn-Koźla there are several shipyards, also with western capital. Some of them produce 30 modern ships a year. So what if shipyards in Poland produce ships, since the state of Oder, its sailing class is that these ships cannot be shipped to the sea? This is the real situation as of today. I know that the revitalization of the Oder is a very large project, a very expensive project, but, ladies and gentlemen, it is the only and cheapest river route from Silesia throughout Poland to the sea. For a few dozen years... If this waterway, our main waterway, is neglected as it has been so far, then it will simply physically disappear from the map of opportunities for development of Silesia. So what if we have fantastic shipyards, private capital, innovative structures that we talk about in the world? They're the fast ships of the new tupus. : Racers, Corvettes If there's no way to get them to the sea? The effect is that the mother company that ordered this particular yard construction The Poles built it. She now ordered the Poles to go to Turkey and teach the Turks how to make these specific ships. Why? Because the state of the Polish river Odry prevents the timely execution of contracts. This is a real example and I can give you the name of the company. I just don't know if it's okay, or if it's gonna be... This is Damen's company. Check the Internet for what they produce, what they do. These aren't old constructions. Speaking of co-financing and strengthening innovation, it must be said that these provisions in the budget will serve this purpose, but only on condition that we watch you watch how this money is spent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u179	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. Let me inform you that the senators... I inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted in writing: Mr Andrzej Stanisławek, Mr Grzegorz Bierecki, Mr Jan Rulewski, Mr Józef Zając, Mr Ryszard Bonisławski, Mr Marek Borowski, Mr Jarosław Duda, Barbara Zdrojewska and Mr Wiesław Kilian together, Mr Leszek Czarnobaj, Mr Kazimierz Kleina, Mr Senator Sławomir Rybicki and Mr Kazimierz Kleina together, Senator Piotr Florek, Senator Marian Poślednik and Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka, senator Stanisław Kogut and Jan Hamerski jointly, senator Kazimierz Kleina, senator Bogdan Klich, senator Jan Libicki, senator Grzegorz Bierecki, senator Piotr Zientarski, senator Władysław Komarnicki, senator Mieczysław Augustyn, senator Borusewicz, Leszek Czarnobaj and Kazimierz Klein jointly, senator Grażyna Sztark, senator Grzegorz Napiarski and senator Tomasz Grodzki jointly, senator Tomasz Grodzki and Leszek Czarbaj together, senator Andrzej Wojtyla, senator Marian Poślednik, senator Przemysław Terminski, senator Tomasz Grodzki and Leszek Czarobaj, senator Andrze Antoni Gański. And that's it. That's all. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on... [[Voice from the room: Yet...]] Wait, yeah... I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Hanna Majszczyk: No, Mr. Marshal. Thank you very much.]] Thank you, Minister. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I'd like an announcement from the senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u180	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. One communiqué. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances on the examination of requests submitted at the 11th Senate meeting for the 2016 budget bill will be held tomorrow, the date... i.e. the exact time will be given later.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-17-senat-11-1.u181	I'm ordering a recess until 9:00 p.m.... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...until 9:00 tomorrow. [[Why aren't we continuing?]] We are not continuing because there have been requests from ministers to consider further laws tomorrow. Surprisingly quickly we finished the budget bill. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. I repeat, time-out until 9:00 a.m. tomorrow. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 17 minutes 38]]
