ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u1	I'm reopening the session. Senators, please take your seats. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. Mr. and Mrs. Senators, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by items: the Act amending the Military Property Agency Act. and consider it as the fourth item of the agenda; and appeal of a member of the Monetary Policy Council and consider it as item five of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. You're welcome, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u2	I object. [[Microphone, Mr. Marshal.]] I object to the point concerning the Military Property Agency. Yesterday, the Sejm passed this bill. Today we are to vote. This law essentially concerns the liquidation of competitions at the Military Property Agency. Is the minister in such a hurry that we can deal with this bill in such a way... Is this about opening the way for the next Misiewicz? [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Marshal...]] And that's an objection. about this point. As far as the point on the cancellation of a member of the Monetary Policy Council is concerned, I believe it must be done quickly so that this member does not change his mind again and withdraws...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u3	Mr. Marshal, I understand you object to the draft law amending the Military Property Agency Act. Yes? [[Yes.]] Good. Because there's been an objection... a formal motion not to include this point, I'm putting it to the vote. Who among you is in favour of introducing the Act amending the Military Property Agency Act on the agenda and considering it as item four of the agenda? Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the room: It's broken.]] Please report the results. 56 senators voted, 41 votes against, 15 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 2]] I therefore find that the bill was... the motion of the senator, Marshal Borusewicz, was rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, we are proceeding... I would like to inform the senators that we will proceed to the vote today before considering the relevant problems arising from the activities and case law of the Constitutional Tribunal in 2015. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Military Property Agency. The text of the Act is contained in print No 290 and the report of the Commission In print No 290 A ... Yes, Mr. Marshal?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u4	It's okay. Because you said the votes would be before the President of the Court. Votes in the Senate have always been after the agenda has been exhausted. Can your marshal explain why there's a change? Is this about an empty room? [[Voice from the room: That was the decision...]] [[Because your marshal didn't consult with Mr. Borusewicz.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u5	Mr. Marshal, for organisational reasons: so that these laws can proceed as soon as possible to the signature. That's my information. We're in the middle of a point four... We're back to point four. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Defence, Senator Rafał Silesian, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u6	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! It has been my honour to present a report by the National Defence Committee on the Law adopted by the Sejm amending the Law on the Military Property Agency; print No 290. The amendment of the law sets itself 2 objectives. The first is to introduce or clarify provisions describing the competence of the Military Property Agency. The second objective is to simplify the procedure for entrusting key posts to the Agency. [[Talking in the O.R.]] The first of these objectives concern mainly 2 articles. Art. 53 extends the possibility for this agency to provide services so that they are services not only to the Minister of Defence but also to the subordinates. This competence is, in effect, restored because on 1 October the rule which so far allowed the Military Property Agency to provide these services to the entities subordinate to the Minister of National Defence has expired. What's important is... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet.]] ...and art. 57, which regulates in a new way the rules of operation of the Agency in such a quite sensitive area as the free transfer or disposal of military equipment which is either under the authority of the Military Property Agency or under the responsibility of the Minister for National Defence. In addition, the Article has been amended. 17 so that it clarifies the powers of the Agency's authorities, Article. 28 so that it abolishes the financial autonomy of the branches of the agency, art. 41 so that it provides the possibility to settle debts to the Agency, and Article. 67 so that, by referring to the principles of European law, it establishes the possibility of omission of the Public Procurement Act in the event of the conclusion of contracts by the Agency. The other changes in the relevant articles describe the way in which persons are elected and remunerated in managerial positions in the Agency by placing responsibility for the selection of those persons in the hands of the Minister for National Defence. The National Defence Commission held a debate on the project at its meeting on 5 October. The Commission recommends that the law be adopted without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u7	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Grubski. You're welcome. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I asked that at the committee meeting yesterday, but I'd like to ask you today. It's a matter of pay... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Excuse me, Senator. Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet, because even the microphone does not help and does not hear the questions. Please, Mr. Senator.]] Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. The Minister will be able to regulate the remuneration of executives. Will this affect the radical increase in these salaries, or will they be kept in chimney security?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u9	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u10	This question has actually been raised at the National Defence Committee meeting. It's so-called. the chimney bill, so that there will be no freedom here in shaping these salaries. As far as I know, no one's even going to raise that salary.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u11	Thank you very much. Senator Piotr Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u12	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! As a result of the resignation from open and competitive recruitment, i.e. the resignation from the competitions, we are dealing with another staff law, and I would like to know if the committee was discussing how many positions this was. How many people will be taking executive positions in the agency without winning the competition? Thank you. [[Voice from the Chamber: There was no such thing at the committee meeting.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u13	The Commission has not dealt with this issue, but these positions are mentioned in the amendment. No contest will be selected by the president, deputy and branch presidents.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u14	Thank you very much. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u15	Mr. Senator, would you tell me if, in your opinion... Perhaps this was also the subject of the committee's deliberations. Is the aim of this law to improve the quality of staff employed, and if so, how will this be achieved? [[Bure's gonna get it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u16	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u17	The Commission did not know this, but it can be said that this is a similar solution to the arrangements for shaping employment and setting up management positions in other agencies that operate in Poland. Therefore, I think that in the Military Property Agency, which is important for the security of the state, this can also be accepted in the way that executives are elected.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u18	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u19	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The competition has, as we know, huge advantages, because it sets out the best specialists, which is particularly important in the case of such a sensitive agency, which by various teams was treated as a place of sharing so-called. The loot. I do not shy away from responsibility for myself and for everyone else here, because this applies to all the teams that ruled this country. Doesn't it seem to you that eliminating these competitions could result in those positions being taken over by people with insufficient qualifications? The competition by its nature always allows you to choose Of course, if there are no activities of a nepot nature The best manager or director. Answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u20	Thank you. Mr. Senator, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u21	I can only say that based on similar considerations No, this is a very important place from the point of view of the security of the state, I can come to other conclusions. It is important that the Minister for National Defence influences the formation of executives because of the tasks that are placed before this agency. In the agencies about, I would say, less important for the security of the state, the Agricultural Market Agency or the Agricultural Property Agency, this formula was also adopted, so I think it will be all the more appropriate for the Military Property Agency. [[Ad vocem. May I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u22	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u23	Just one word. Don't you notice that there is a complete lack of logic in what you said?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u24	You come to such conclusions, I come to others.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u25	Good. Senator Waldemar Sługocki. Do you have a question, Senator? [[Yeah, yeah.]] Senator Rusiecki have a question too? [[Yes.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u26	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Senate! Mr. Senator! Minister! Me, too, in the context of these competitions. You were kind enough to highlight your vision, your perception of this situation. I think, Mr. Senator, that competitions are, however, a guarantee of verification of possible or potential candidates and a guarantee of selecting the best candidates. But that's not what I'd like to ask. I would like to ask you about another thread concerning the application of this provision directly, i.e. the repeal of competitions. Aren't you afraid, Mr. Senator, that maybe you discussed this at the committee meeting? The fact that the possibility of the cancellation of all executives in the Agency could lead to the destabilisation of that entity because the continuity of power will be violated? However, you must admit that officials guarantee a certain continuity, both substantive and organisational. The exchange of all officials in management positions in such a time unit in my view could lead to the destabilisation of that entity. Aren't you afraid... I am aware that this is only a possibility that the Minister does not have to cancel all the officials with one stroke, but as we reach the latest history of the Polish state. I'm thinking about the period from a few months ago. We will note that the practice is, however, that ministers quite courageously use the pen and, without further reflection, call off a whole bunch of competent officials. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u27	Please, Senator Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u28	Mr. Senator, I'm not really afraid of what you're talking about. I can say that the amendment increases security in terms of staff formation, because the amended article. 11, which prejudges the procedure for the appointment of the President of the Agency, shall appoint as the person most responsible for the President of the Agency the President of the Council of Ministers. In the current solution, the Minister of Defence, in agreement with the Minister of the Treasury, elected the President from among the candidates selected in the competition. The current change increases the security because 2 people in the country The Prime Minister and the Minister for National Defence will be responsible for the shape of the Armed Property Agency.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u29	Thank you. Senator Tomasz Grodzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u30	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Senator! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm a little concerned, because after the stormy autumn and the winter of last year, when various laws were prepared in extraordinary mode... I have a question: did the legislator present the reasons for such urgent and urgent action at the committee meeting? Is there an enemy at the gates? Should we urgently sell any military equipment? Because in art. 57, which few people pay attention to, maybe because we had very little time to read the wording of this law, and we didn't actually receive a single text, but a change... Which is why we have to proceed again in extraordinary mode, breaking the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and the Senate, which is reprehensible, over the law, in which, according to the preliminary view, Isn't there such a need for urgency? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u31	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u32	Mr. Senator, I can only repeat my introductory speech in which I explained... As for that article you said no one mentioned, I just emphasized it because it's art. Article 53 and Article 53 57 are the main reasons for the amendment. The first reason for the haste is that on October 1st, the law which allowed the Military Property Agency to conclude agreements with the units subordinate to the Minister of Defence has lost effect. Second cause. It's about the moment that I think is most important. Indeed, the new provision allows for a more flexible host to the property of the Military Property Agency and the property of the Minister of National Defence at the moment. If you pay attention to this provision, you will see that there is a procedure that has been removed, which has led to an extension of the route of disposal of this equipment, which is to refer to the provisions of the international treaties. From the seller's point of view, the Military Property Agency in this respect, this record caused a bureaucratic mitraga and could cause the buyer to withdraw from the transaction.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u33	Thank you. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u34	Mr. Senator, I'd like to make sure, because this statement seems to confirm my suspicions, and I wasn't on the committee, so I don't know the details of the bill: will the Military Property Agency be able to turn ammo and weapons now? Or are we gonna put weapons and military equipment on the market when these new nominators aren't selected from the competition?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u35	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u36	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! If you read the article. 57, you'll find there a record that in both cases, in the mouth. 1 and 2, the provisions of the Act of 29 November 2000 on trade with foreign countries in goods, technologies and services of strategic importance for State security, as well as for the maintenance of international peace and security, are in force. The title of this act is so long. In this respect, Nothing changes. The rules are still the same. [[So you're confirming it?]] I confirm that nothing changes in this matter.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u37	Thank you. And now Mr. Senator, Mr. Jarosław Rusiecki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I confirm what Senator Grodzki said: Mr Senator, no procedures have been broken in connection with this law; normal procedural procedures are being carried out as in the case of the adoption of any law. I would like to ask the senator of the rapporteur if there was any news at the committee meeting about the information presented two days ago by the Deputy Minister for National Defence, Minister Bartosz Kownacki, about the names of the high officials of the Civic Platform, who, let's call it a landing party, were employed in the Military Property Agency. I'd like to remind you, Mr. Minister, by name, of these people, I have this list. Mr Grzegorz Stawowy, Councilman of the Platform from Krakow; Mr Grzegorz Lipiec, married to the Civic Platform of Katarzyna Matusiak-Lipiec; Ms Katarzyna Góralczyk, councilwoman of the Platform from Krakow; Mr Zbigniew Seja, district councilman of the Platform from Wrocław; Mr Janusz Leman, Vice-President of the Platform in Gdańsk; Mr Maciej Nawrocki, councilman of the Platform from Poznań; Mr Krystian Cieszka, member of the Civic Platform; Mrs Iwona Wrykiewicz, activist of the Platform employed in the office of the Member of the Civic Platform of Jadwiga Zakrzewska. The Minister presented information about employees in companies subordinate to the Military Property Agency, of course I can read these names further, there are dozens of them. Was there information and discussion on this issue during the committee's work?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u39	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u40	Knowledge was, there was no discussion, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u41	Thank you. Senator Waldemar Sługocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Senator rapporteur, I have a question about whether this is not too long, but nevertheless... a list of the civil platform activists mentioned by your senator... [[I can continue if the senator wishes.]] You're welcome. I'd be very grateful, Senator. But in this context, I have a question: isn't any of these people mentioned by your senator legitimizing a higher education? If so, which one of these people does not have a higher education? And if he doesn't have a higher education, what's his education? [[Mr. Senator, do you think the Senator rapporteur has any knowledge of this?]] No, but Mr. Senator, Mrs. Marshal... [[Well, you ask such...]] ...let him make a suggestion... [[You ask questions that are no longer relevant to the merits of the case.]] But Mr. Senator... [[Finish the question.]] I didn't notice that your marshal was polite to draw your attention to the senator who was speaking in front of me, and he also touched on, I think, the threads that... The list also doesn't come from the regulation of the bill in any way. That's all. So I ask that your marshal, both Mr. Senator and I, rightly call to order. I understand you're a marshal. I thank you very much for this, but I regret that she was not polite to call my esteemed colleague to order. But okay... [[The Chair of the Scientific Committee shall have the right to speak at any time.]] Of course. That's about it now, if the marshal will allow it. [[As I understand it, you are now asking the Senator of the rapporteur.]] Yeah, yeah. [[You're welcome.]] Mr. Senator, are you going to make... I understand that this is now the premier's prerogative, the President of the Council of Ministers. Before consumption of the provision we discussed earlier, which I also asked about, i.e. the provision concerning the absence, the abolition of competitions, do you intend to review the staff? I think there are also officials, employees of agencies who have been managing positions for many years, which are not involved in the political life of the Polish state. Can they count on them to continue their mission at the agency? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u43	Please, Senator rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u44	Mrs. Marshal, Mr. Senator, I am proud to remind you that we are both senators, i.e. representatives of the legislative authority. But how our law is implemented by executive authority is subject to our assessment, but it's not something we create.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u45	Thank you. Senator Piotr Florek, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Of course, as far as I'm concerned... I'm just gonna go back to the short story on the list of nominated activists. Now that you can appoint without a contest... We will try to prepare such a list in the near future and show you what the situation is currently like. And my question is... Because the agency will also be selling military equipment. She can give it to you free of charge, she's gonna throw it away... I mean, how will the price of the disposal of such equipment be determined? How, in particular as regards the trading of goods abroad, will the disposal price be fixed by the agency? Will it be valued by any valuer? Who's gonna do this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u47	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u48	Mrs. Marshal, Mr. Senator, I will also use the answer from a moment ago: we are creating the law, including the law that we are creating, we are not regulating these matters. It's called competence. the executive authority. And I think that the level of generality at which we create law gives different possibilities for solutions of this type.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u49	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Senator rapporteur? No. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for National Defence has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. Today we have Minister Bartłomiej Grabski, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u50	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! With regard to the proposed amendment to the Military Property Agency Act, it implies extending the competence of the Military Property Agency, as mentioned by the Senator-rapporteur, also contains issues related to the signing of contracts and the provision of services to military units by the company's daughter of the Military Property Agency. The Agency and its subsidiaries will be able to provide specialised services related to military infrastructure, critical infrastructure. For security reasons, it is much better for such services to be carried out by an entity under the control of the Minister for National Defence, whether for the construction of ammunition warehouses or other critical infrastructure. Similarly, as regards issues relating to the amendment of the Act, whether it is a free transfer or the disposal of military equipment, dual-use items and arms. The situation here is that the proposed changes are designed to reduce the time involved in deciding whether or not to transfer this property free of charge. The practice so far shows that negotiation processes related to the conclusion of international agreements are too time-consuming and that the situation sometimes requires immediate action. Here we would like to avoid such a situation that this equipment was disposed of in accordance with the Military Property Agency Act to entities which subsequently sold it to other countries, and these countries made much more money selling this equipment to further buyers. The point is that we have the opportunity to react more quickly and dispose of this equipment ourselves, without intermediaries. As regards the subject raised by your senator about the competitions for positions in the Military Property Agency, I will give you one example in order to illustrate the staff policy of the previous Civic Platform government. On 28 March 2008, when Bogdan Klich was Minister of National Defence, Ms Krystyna Bakula was appointed Deputy President of the Military Property Agency for Financial Affairs... excuse me, the Bacula, who was legitimized in the secondary education of clothing technology. [[All about it.]] So that's an example, I think, very unambiguous. As regards other examples, competitive recruitments can also be given for positions in military agencies, such as the Military Property Agency or the Military Housing Agency, under the rule of the Civic Platform. These competitive recruitments are among others. recruitment for the position of the Director of the Regional Department of the Military Housing Agency in Krakow or the Director of the Terrain Department of the Military Mining Agency in Krakow... The first was won by Mr Grzegorz July, a political scientist, a member of the Management Board of the National Civic Platform, and the winner of the second was unexpectedly Mr Grzegorz Stawowy, a political scientist, and since 2006 Vice-President of the Civic Platform also in Krakow. This case was already the subject of an interpellation by Mr Opioł in 2009. In response to the interpellation, the Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister, Ms Julia Pitera confirmed information on irregularities in the appointment of Mr Grzegorz Lipc as Director of the Regional Branch WAM in Cracow and admitted that in the case of the second selection, the analysis of documentation and explanations provided by the management of the AMW did not provide a convincing justification as to this necessity and the nature of the change made. In addition, the Minister of National Defence, Mr Bogdan Klich, then commissioned the presidents of the two agencies to hold renewed competitions for the director of the AMW and WAM branch. The competitions were repeated and again won by both political scientists, leaders of the Krakow Civic Platform. Despite their evident lack of qualifications, they took up such hard positions for 6 years, from 2009 to 2015. [[Defenders of democracy.]] [[Well, professionals first.]] [[Quiet, please!]] So these are the elements I wanted to return... [[Minister...]] But while your senator was gone, I gave Mrs Krystyna an example... [[Excuse me...]] [[Don't argue with me now. Please, Minister, please continue. There'll be another Question Time later, so there'll probably be more questions for you. There you go.]] I would also like to mention that the previous law, adopted on 10 July 2015, allowed the Minister of National Defence without competition to appoint the President and Vice-Presidents of the Military Property Agency for a period of 3 years, from which the previous management of the Ministry of National Defence benefited. As far as competitions are concerned, as is the case with the Agricultural Property Agency or the Agricultural Market Agency and other executive agencies, there are no competitions for the agency's management positions. The Military Property Agency is such a special agency where it is necessary for the Minister of National Defence to have full confidence in persons involved in special trading, or the disposal of real estate. These are billions of zlotys. The Minister of National Defence shall be responsible to and before the Sejm, and to the Senate for the proper appointment of the relevant persons. I guess that's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u51	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Grzegorz Napieralski called in. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u52	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, tell me if you have any charges. about education, about political scientists, and about their lack of competence. I would like to tell you that in some political studies there are e.g. a subject such as the fight against terrorism and terrorism, a year-round subject that prepares a student very strongly to recognise terrorist threats. And that's what happens in some political directions. The master of political science is a very comprehensive person, and I'd like to tell you that because I'm a politician myself. [[National security is in political science.]] There is, too, I'd like to say, Mr. Senator. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of National Defence Bartłomiej Grabski: Mr. Senator...]] That's my first question. And I have a second question for you. You have so well and well mentioned the various types of competitions that were held in the past, as well as the people who appeared, according to this information, without the competition. But I understand, Minister, that under the motto "good change" was to come something that, especially in the state administration and in these particular places will be a really good change, i.e. there will be no pathology, there will be no such phenomena as you have said and criticized. I am so convinced that after these changes that have taken place and have happened, which were mentioned just now by Senator Grodzki, after the recent changes and changes that are coming now, such pathologies will, however, deepen and will not be eliminated. And if a few things hadn't happened along the way, you might say I'm wrong, but I'm just gonna give you one example. Well, in one of the strategic companies of the Treasury, the person who, in my opinion, takes a very important position, because the director responsible for research, development, everything that is really connected with the future and development of this company, has such experience that he founded, built and ran a bar with kebabs in one of the small cities in Poland. I have nothing against small cities to make it clear. Aren't you afraid of the same situation? I no longer want to rely on a famous case on the supervisory board of PGZ, will similar situations take place now and that when we take down competitions, when we actually take down certain protection of these positions, will it just be worse?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u53	Thank you very much, Senator. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u54	Mr. Senator, as to political education, I don't mind, I also finished journalism and political science at the University of Warsaw and... But I was also finishing... [[But you are, I see, a minister at the Ministry of National Defense.]] But I also finished law school, two faculty, and a postgraduate college... But that's called digression. As far as qualifications are concerned, which are required in the position of director of the Regional Department of the Military Property Agency or previously the Military Housing Agency, these are mainly issues related to the acquisition, planning of real estate... And this kind of education is often necessary. Therefore, there was no charge of education here, but there was a question of preparation in this regard. As for the second part of the senator's question, whether I am concerned that there may be irregularities in the future, no, I have no such concerns. I'm being honest with you because I know that I was the president of the Military Property Agency myself in 2007. We tried. And we try all the time. To make the selection of these people as transparent as possible. They must meet the qualification requirements set out in the Military Property Agency Act, because they are the best people for the positions. [[We heard.]] And as for the example given by your senator, I can't relate to him because I don't know the situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u55	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u56	I have a slightly similar question. Besides, I've already asked it to the Senator of the rapporteur. There's no denying that the competition procedures contained gates. This also applies to the law, as the Minister said just now. - which made it not always the people with the best qualifications on the market included functions in the agencies. Except I don't find any record in this bill that would counter it. The Minister is criticizing something, but now I'm asking you to tell me how you want to change it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u57	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u58	Mr. Senator, as I mentioned earlier, the Minister for National Defence is responsible for HR policy. For choosing the right people to be president or vice presidents of the agency And so do I. [[All Poland heard...]] Okay, of course. And the Military Property Agency Act sets out the requirements that these persons must fulfil in order to be entrusted with the position of President or Vice-President of the Military Property Agency, as in the case of Regional Branch Directors. As far as competitions are concerned, I would like to remind you once again of the article. 123 of the previous law, which said that after the merger of the first presidents of the Military Property Agency, he appointed the Minister of National Defence without a competition for a period of 3 years. And that's what happened. Minister Siemoniak appointed the President and Vice-Presidents of the Military Property Agency at the end of 2015. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u59	Thank you, Minister. Senator Piotr Florek, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u60	Minister, in the article. 22th Act is such a provision that the selection of candidates for vacant posts is open and competitive. You are now introducing an additional Article into the Act. 27a, which shall not apply to Article. 22, because here it is said that this rule does not apply to the directors of the agencies, directors of branches, deputies, as well as to executives in the agency's office. In the case of these persons, competitions will not be held while in other cases competitions will be held. Well, I understand there's gonna be competitions for all the other jobs. Don't you think this is some kind of fiction? If we cancel the competitions for the most important positions, it is clear that these bosses will still want to appoint workers who, say, will be able to meet their tasks. Then isn't it fiction that you're shutting down the competitions just for these jobs and not for all of them? Why don't you shut down the competitions for all those other jobs as well? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u61	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u62	Mr. Senator, this is true only for executive positions. We recognise the continuity of the Military Property Agency and do not want to cause any disruption. In our opinion, maintaining the current employment policy and ensuring that those who are employed... Well, with some people, I'm sure the new leadership will say goodbye, but in principle, I think that's the right thing to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u63	Thank you. And Senator Thomas Grodzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! A little in reference to the speech of the chairman of the committee, Senator Rusiecki, I would like to remind you of the article. 34 of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, which states that the draft order is determined by the Marshal of the Senate, and that only matters known to the senators from the documents distributed no later than 3 days before the sitting may be brought to the agenda, which was not the case in this case. In exceptional cases, the term may be shortened with the consent of the Senate. And that was the agreement, and my esteemed colleague, Mr Rusiecki, apparently foresaw that this would be the case. So the rules weren't broken. However, explain to me, because with all due respect to my colleague, Senator Sillyman, his response did not satisfy me fully, what are the real reasons for such urgency. Because with all due respect for the army and the specifics of the Ministry of National Defence, I don't find such urgency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u65	Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u66	Mr Senator, as the rapporteur said, first of all, it is about the need to conclude contracts with subordinates and supervised entities for the provision of construction services, Sinevia carries them out and she has to conclude contracts. That's one thing. The second point is the issue of special trading and disposal. I don't want to go into detail any more, but for temporary reasons, this law is very urgent.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u67	Thank you. Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Allow me to moralize you a little if you don't mind. 'Cause after you've interested us in the personalities of your previous term, you could ask me a question. And that's my question. As you judge such a statement or a saying: the blade in your neighbor's eye you see, and the beams in your own eye do not see. I am saying this in the context of the first personal issue related to Mr Hofman, who immediately after winning the election was appointed a political messenger in the group, and after three days he resigned for the damage of this group. How do you feel about that? And second question. You're saying this is the best solution, which is giving up everything that's happened. And yet, in the world, there are concepts like a competition, which, of course, is difficult, because someone has to prepare for something, even in the face of a biased committee... But there are public announcements about the search, there are still orders for companies looking for the best businessmen, professionals. Why aren't you using these tools?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u69	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u70	Senator, in this case, because of the specifics of the Military Property Agency, which rotates a billionth of its assets, the application of such solutions does not seem optimal. The Minister of National Defence must have full confidence and this person must be subject to repeated checks by the relevant services to ensure that he gives assurance of the performance of the tasks associated with the position concerned. Here these requirements are formally defined... This person must also have a security clearance for documents with a certain clause and this attestation shall give the appropriate services. It is difficult for me to refer to the senator's first statement and the question about Mr. Adam Hofman because I am not following his career. [[Thank you, Minister...]] [[Mrs. Marshal, I've got the wrong name, and I wouldn't want to burden Mr. Hofman with a bad opinion. This was about Mr. Kaminski.]] That's hard, too. [[I apologize to Mr. Hofman and to you for misleading me.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u71	I understand you've already given the answer, Minister. You're welcome, Senator Grzegorz Napieralski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u72	Thank you very much, Marshal. I'm very glad, Minister, that we've finished similar studies, because these are really good studios... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Don't overdo it!]] ...and give you a lot of competence. Anyway, I have a question. I agree with your statement on the Minister's trust, because this is indeed a very serious agency. I also agree that the vice-ministers, the three people who are closest to each minister's work, especially in the case of the Minister for National Defence, must be those to whom he will have confidence. But I'm asking you again, now with an exact example, because you couldn't... Aren't you afraid that there will be a situation which arose in a company which is very important, strategic for Polish industry and national security, i.e. PGNiG, that Mr Maciej Szota, a young man, former Councilman of Law and Justice, also associated with Solidarna Polska, suddenly becomes vice-director of the entire department, Department for Development and Research? Please note: a strategic company, we will not say here that it is not an important company when it comes to our economy and our security, and suddenly there is such a man. You know, just trust... Perhaps the president has confidence in this man, but you know, just trust and competence resulting from the fact that a man ran a bar with kebabs and was very proud of it, he said that this is actually the beginning of his path to the summits, I consider a weak argument and a weak example. Isn't it the same with this agency you're talking about, where a security clearance is required, where the proper services are supposed to check the man, and they're likely to find out where he might have access to important documents, including classified documents? Will his powers be large enough to manage that multi-billion-dollar estate you're talking about? Isn't there going to be situations like PGNiG?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u73	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u74	I have no such fear, Senator. I'm also supervising the Military Property Agency, and I'm going to try to make sure of that. In order for the selection of people for these posts to be as appropriate as possible and for those who give the guarantee to carry out the duties entrusted to them to be selected. [[By the way, where's the kebab?]] [[Inowroclaw.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, please be quiet. Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u76	Minister, I have read your letter requesting this law to be included on the agenda of this sitting. This is, of course, the extraordinary mode, yesterday he passed this law of the Sejm, today he's going to give it to the Senate. There are no indications in this letter that the urgency of the bill would be explained. But since you said that there were such reasons, please present them to me. There's even a matter of invitation to tender that you mentioned, and so on. Is it a two-week delay because there's a Senate meeting in two weeks, that was a problem, that's a problem for the ministry? Were there any situations in which two weeks of delay caused any losses in the ministry regarding the tender for purchase or sale? I'm asking because it seems to me that this bill provides for, as you wrote, as I understand from what I know, a simplified procedure for the sale of military property. This also applies to weapons, ammunition and equipment. Is there, therefore, any indication that you need to make an immediate review of the bill? [[Thank you, Mr...]] I have one more question. Where did the young capable man who worked for the Minister, Mr. Misiewicz find his place? Is he still in some company at the moment, or was he directed to another section? I'd like to know about that. Thank you very much. [[He took over the kebab.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u77	Mr. Marshal, but that's a question... [[By the way.]] ...does not concern the point we consider. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u78	Mr. Marshal, when it comes to arms trafficking, it is strictly regulated, controlled and recorded in detail. With regard to the procedure, the urgent procedure for proceeding over this law, the amendment of the law, is the result of a contract which is currently being proceded, a multi-hundred million-dollar contract for the sale of unnecessary military property. That's one thing. And the other thing. The article on renovations and construction works is also about Sinevia, which must in the near future It is already required, so to speak, to conclude an agreement with the Ministry of National Defence for urgent construction work related to military infrastructure.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u79	Thank you very much. Senator Piotr Florek. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u80	Minister, I'm going to go back to what the Marshal just said about this super-express billing procedure: yesterday the Sejm, today the Senate. So I understand that you're assuming that Mr. President, who still has to sign the bill, will also do so at this rate? Then we'll be watching it. You also talked about the free transfer and the disposal of the equipment, about the purpose of shortening the time and not making any other money to make it happen. No middlemen. I am only interested in this: if it is to be such a pace, how will the sale price be controlled? And I'm worried that sometimes D.D.A. Ziobro won't have much to say here. Because if this transfer or disposal is going to happen at this rate and this is how it's going to happen, then someone has to control it. If it's not D.D.A. Ziobro, who is it? Who's gonna control that? Who's gonna check it out? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u81	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u82	Mr. Senator, there's no such danger here that you're talking about. It's a multi-annual contract, and in the case of this equipment, taking it from military units. Because we are talking about unnecessary equipment, categories are defined and committees are appointed to check this equipment. It is also a matter of ensuring that Polish industry, companies operating under the Polish Armed Group can treat this industry, modernise it, and that equipment coming from units can be disposed of at the optimal price. As regards international contracts, the price shall also be determined taking into account the reliability of the seller and his condition. So that there are no risks like the senator said. But of course, the proper service The Central Office for Corruption or the Public Prosecutor's Office will have an insight into this if there is a suspicion of a breach of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u83	Thank you. And Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u84	Minister, I will no longer return to the matter of Mr Misiewicz, although you have used the phrase here: Minister Macierewicz gives the guarantee. Well, according to the Prime Minister, No, no, no, no, And he had to cancel Misiewicz because he didn't offer any guarantees. But I'm leaving it. I'd like to ask if there were any cases. If so, how many were there That the former employees, the executives of the agency, violated the law, were released disciplinaryly, were subject to criminal or other proceedings against them. Because I understand there's a need for an exchange, and if there is, then I understand it was bad. If things were bad, what was wrong? Who said that, and what were the consequences?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u85	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u86	Mr. Senator, most of the changes have already taken place, so to speak. This procedated amendment to the Military Property Agency Act is intended to improve the management process on the one hand and, as I mentioned earlier, the process of selecting the best candidates. As far as the second part of your question is concerned, I'll try to get that information and give it to the senator. [[In writing.]] [[It's in writing.]] Yes, yes, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u87	Thank you very much. Senator Grzegorz Napieralski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u88	Minister, I have a question for you. Looking at your professional and scientific career, you are a good example of what you have said, which is to have the confidence of the Minister of Defence and the competent man. Because the National Security Bureau, and the President's Office, and your post-graduate studies, two majors show that you have an education, experience. You include the function of Vice Minister. And now that I'm looking at your experience... what I'm saying isn't mean to be clear. So now that I'm looking at your experience, what you've accomplished in your life, and what you've done today... Can you answer me this question: if there was a similar situation to the one in PGNiG that I referred to today, because you, as I understand it, are responsible for this part, namely the agency, if you are prepared then to draw such consequences also towards yourself and say that you will resign? It is about a situation when a man with no competence will appear in a very important position, who does not guarantee everything that you have said today, answering questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u89	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u90	Of course, Mr. Senator. Well, everyone's responsible for the choices they made. If you recommend people... There are situations, of course, as you know. It's hard to put your head behind somebody, but... of course, people change, but the information that was known when deciding to appoint a position should be clear and legible enough to defend themselves.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u91	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to ask the Minister a question? I don't see any calls. Minister, thank you very much. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of National Defence Bartłomiej Grabski: Thank you.]] I would like to inform you that a government representative has undertaken to provide written answers to the questions asked by Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. I'm opening a discussion. I'd like to speak with Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u92	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! We consider this law under very special circumstances. Poland is concerned about the issue of Misiewicz, PiS-iewiczów, and lists of posts are being created, which have been covered by people without proper competence from the granting of the Law and Justice. You have to admit, this is an exceptional manifestation of arrogance. You used to use that phrase once. This is an exceptional manifestation of the arrogance of power that, in such circumstances, when even the Prime Minister must intervene and force the Minister to withdraw from the scandalous decision to appoint his close collaborator for high functions without appropriate qualifications, you are presenting a bill that allows the same minister to do such things without any problem. That's interesting, because it would seem, judging by the Prime Minister's reaction, after your reaction, to your public assurances that what's what, but such a bill will not appear. Of course, I will agree with Senator Sillysmith, with the Minister, that the Platform did not protect pathology either, just as it had not escaped this pathology of the PiS before, and how the SLD had not been avoided, because the rules concerning competitions are broken like a crowd and can be tricked. And there are no such reservations that exist, for example. in the Public Procurement Act that you can't have connections that you can't have in this business that it's supposed to be impartial. It's not like you have to come up with something completely new. Meanwhile, the country that went to the government under the slogan of a good change, not only do you want to use these gates And you're enjoying it. But you're going to open it even more widely and even buy and put the gate there so that you can do whatever you want and place your own wherever you want. In my district, I observe in agricultural agencies... the President and the rapporteur said it would be just like the other agencies. God forbid! What happened with us in the agricultural agencies is perceived as something bizarre and outrageous. The head of the agency did not attend the committee meeting and the district council because she would probably not be able to bear the burden of responsibility that she was entrusted with just because she had the right legitimacy. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not a good idea that... since we are criticizing and it is correct, Senator, it would be expected that the change would be good and not bad. And that's not the point of catching any pathology after eight years of government, because I can say that... I only have a piece of the list here, but if you want, we can put the cards on the table: you put 40 names on the table, and we 400, only it happened in eight months, not in eight years, so that's not the point. We're in the Senate, so I think we could use some reflection here, that it's about the state, it's about competence, and especially when it comes to billions of dollars when it comes to huge tenders... I believe that out of five, six, ten high-skilled candidates, the minister should choose the one he has confidence in. Absolutely. Even when I.D.'s got... Because often the Platform is accused that someone was there from the Platform, but it must also be remembered that in most cases members of the Platform are businessmen, these are managers, these are people with a higher education. That's our roots, so there's something to choose from. Was this always a choice? No. And, of course, it had to be put an end to it. I would, Mr. Senator, sympatheticly smile at anyone who comes in here and answers the question in substance... There was a gate in the competitions. Okay, we're gonna lock up. There were possibilities to deviate from the relevant requirements I'm done with this. We're not gonna let that happen. You've introduced dozens of people in violation of the rules first of all, let's call it ethical, not legal, and we absolutely won't allow ourselves to do that. Meanwhile, as I say, it's quite the opposite. This is embarrassing, this is hypocrisy, this, ladies and gentlemen, should not have happened. I expect, Minister, that there will be a reflection in the government. If it was possible, after Misiewicz's incident... under public pressure. You should have pulled out of those scandalous decisions. I think it's time for systemic reflection to withdraw from this mode that has allowed us to bend the law for years to place our own. Cut it out, and don't get any deeper on this pathology. That's what I'm calling for.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u93	Thank you, Senator. Senator Piotr Florek, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u94	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! The Minister, who was not to be a minister, obtains authority, full authority in a very important ministry. Why wouldn't he be? Why did he become one? I'm not going to develop this thread, because I'm sure there's a lot to say about it. The Minister has been granted privileges... You remember, as we discussed before, other laws and, for example, positions and promotions in the military. I remember that the sergeant may take a position that is foreseen, for example. For the major, because she was talking about 2+ and that you can take higher positions. That's the fullness of power. And now we want to give the Minister further powers by the next law. The Minister said three things. He spoke of the provision of services to the Minister of National Defence, etc. It's the so-called. In-house, which we talked about in local governments; you can also say that. And it's probably the right thing to do. If the agency is doing services for... Then why shouldn't she do it for the Minister of National Defence, and why shouldn't it be done this way? In my opinion, this is the right thing to do and it must be said that this is the right direction. The issue of disposal and free transfer of equipment, shortening time, selling without intermediaries and how to negotiate, etc. Of course, it will always be debatable. The thing is, if something happens quickly, you have to spend it cheaply, so really there will always be problems in this case. But this law has actually one fundamental purpose, it is another staff law, the idea being to change the presidents, the deputies. We could probably mention some of the laws that we've passed here so far. Well, I'm sure it's the Civil Service Act. Remember, about 1,000 600 jobs. If we were to sum up all the agencies one at a time, these positions would have gotten better. I don't know. Already about a thousand, it would have to be counted. What's gonna happen? It will happen that after some time there will be another election, there will be changes. Nobody rules for too long, it could be 1 term, 2 and then of course. It's to be expected. There will be further changes, because now that someone has opened the gate, it will remain open. In the case of open competitions that took place, of course you have to meet the requirements, there are 2 This bill doesn't make any difference. It doesn't matter what you experience, what you learn. Of course, there are also certain requirements. 'Cause it's been written down by law. That must be fulfilled with regard to this law, but this is especially no longer taken into account and competences should be the most important. What hurts me the most? The fact that competitions will be held in the case of lower positions, which are not of great importance, because the director of the branch, the head of the agency, etc. They know their employees, they know... And they have to hold competitions for these positions. I believe that this is another human resources bill, which primarily disrupts the functioning of the boards, because at every step we could exchange where it happened. It's the wrong direction, the wrong direction. I am convinced that once this law is broken, it will be difficult to change and go in the second direction after the next elections. Probably this staff exchange, sometimes it's totally unfair... Because I think that just because someone's in Law and Justice or another party doesn't mean that he's so marked that he can't take up high positions. If he's got the authority to do it, let him take it. If there isn't one, we talked about these Misiewiczs. If he failed the state exam to sit in companies of the Treasury... And it's not just a course to have that kind of authority, you still have to pass an exam that isn't easy, as we remember. It's a whole other thing. So if anyone has the authority, then of course, let them... But right now, you can see that another bill, another open gate, so you can appoint for these positions... I'm just not sure that all posts will now be exchanged from the vending machine, whether they can be preserved... or, like in the Civil Service, that not necessarily everyone... And whether everyone's gonna be there or not... It was already the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture that set an example, as on one day probably 306 people were mentioned. So, since we're giving power to the Minister of National Defence, he's probably gonna decide whether it's gonna be everyone or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u95	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u96	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It was supposed to be a good change. But is what we observe just the fulfillment of these announcements? You can't keep answering the problems we're pointing out, personal matters, on the principle that you beat black people. If there were cases you had reservations about as a PiS, then you should correct it. And you're destroying the system. Because the argument that the rules of competitions have not always been respected is not an argument for putting up with these competitions at all. These competitions need to be improved. You should've corrected it. You should've tightened the criteria. But to say that the competitions were a fraud... In the light of the situation in which the CEO of NIK, who is likely to have violated the competition rule, is suspected of violating the competition principle, and is likely to be responsible... Well, it shows that what you're saying isn't true. If there are no rules, if there are no competitions, you can do anything. I mean, you can do more, you can manipulate more than when there are competitions, when there are rules. If there are rules, it's probably better than if there are no rules. This law is a law which is part of the main human policy of the PiS. Down with the competitions! And scooter soul! Minister, this is the first major issue. This is the second similar law, which is very important, which is reported by the Ministry, the second law, which concerns personal matters. Previously, you guys proposed a bill. She has also been voted in this House That the Minister may appoint an officer to serve at 2 degrees above... Earlier, until the amendment of the law, the rank that had an officer in office had to agree with this function. And it's been a long way to get to a situation like this. That bill destroyed that rule because you can appoint an officer... two degrees higher. Or more. Yeah, I know who wrote it, I know the style. And the law discussed today is the second similar law. That's the main rule of the bill. The rest is a smoke screen, a smoke screen. I would like to say that what has become a symbol in the Ministry and what has also become a symbol of the personal policy of PiS, the matter of Mr.Misiewicz, is above all your responsibility, not that young man, this young man who has become dizzy in his head. But you appointed him, the minister appointed him for more and more important functions. And you are, and ministers. You too, because you're in charge of the ministry. It is responsible for the fact that this young man, before whom his career was before, is at the moment a symbol of not a good career, not a good career path, but a reprehensible path. It's not his responsibility, it's your responsibility. The Act also loosens the matter of the disposal of military equipment, ammunition, weapons. It relaxes. Well, the minister can make decisions on a one-man basis. Of course, the minister was responsible for everything, but the minister did not decide for one person, who to sell and under what conditions. I'd understand if we wanted to, you'd want to, let's put on, sell weapons for Ukraine, for the Kurds. But if you think that this kind of discretionary decision doesn't get to the public and that makes it easier to make decisions that are politically important, then you're wrong. If you're selling guns to anyone, not a few pieces, then interviews find out about it. And those are the examples. So why remove these procedures, which were and are still today, and concern not tenders, but the disposal of property of the Military Property Agency, because it is primarily weapons and ammunition, it is also equipment... The Minister therefore did not explain exactly what was going on. Of course, we could offer to keep the proceedings secret so that the Minister can give us this information, but we won't. But I don't understand, I really don't understand what's going on. In this state of law, it was possible to dispose of this equipment. And why would the Minister want to decide these contracts personally? Well, maybe it's a good thing he's taking on personal responsibility. Because he takes personal responsibility for where this equipment goes, what areas or not in conflict areas, whether he gets into the hands of the wrong terrorists or the mob... Such situations happened when selling military equipment after the former Warsaw Agreement. Minister, this is a bad bill. You're going in a very bad direction. The PiS government is going in the wrong direction at all. And as far as the wrong direction is concerned, the leadership of your ministry is at the forefront. I'm sorry to say this because this is a very important ministry. This is a ministry which also affects foreign policy, and the evaluation of the functioning of this ministry also depends on the assessment of Poland's policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u97	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. And Senator Rafał the locksmith. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u98	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I am speaking only in the context of the speeches that appeared in the discussion, because I have the impression that my speech as rapporteur has been a little formalized by the debaters, and I would not like it to be perceived and remembered. In my speech, I didn't take the easy way of criticizing the Platform. You can check the transcript And building such a conclusion that if the Platform was doing wrong, then we can do wrong too. I tried to convince you that these solutions are simply objectively good. And I regret that you have not come to the reflection that perhaps in the Military Property Agency it is worth giving up competitions and it is worth it that people are appointed by the Minister of National Defence In the context of what you were just talking about, and what I think you understood, Senator Napieralski, but what you didn't understand, Senator Fedorowicz. That reflection wasn't at all at this point. And the second charge of hypocrisy is severe, but, I think, it's not fair. Senator Augustine himself said that competitions were held and trusted people won. I think it's cleaner that there are no competitions and people come who are appointed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u99	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held in the voting block. Is the Minister still willing to speak or not? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of National Defence Bartłomiej Grabski: Thank you very much.]] Good. Thank you very much. We proceed with the consideration of item five of the agenda: the cancellation of a member of the Monetary Policy Council. High Izbo, on 5 October 2016, a member of the Monetary Policy Council, Mr Marek Chrzanowski resigned from his duties. In accordance with the Act on the National Bank of Poland, the Senate in this case revokes the appointed member of the Council. The proposal by the Senate Marshal on the appeal of a member of the Monetary Policy Council together with the draft resolution of the Senate on this matter is included in print No 291. This request was addressed to the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance by the Senate Marshal. The committee's report is contained in print No 291 O. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, to speak and to present the report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u100	Thank you very much, Marshal. The Commission met yesterday and took note of the proposal submitted by Dr. Chrzanowski. Dr. Chrzanowski has justified his decision on personal grounds. None of the senators asked questions about the details of these personal reasons. The Commission unanimously welcomed the Marshal's request to dismiss Mr Chrzanowski as a member of the Monetary Policy Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u101	Thank you very much. [[Senator Stanisław Rooster: The questions are, Grzesiu.]] [[Oh, there are questions.]] At present, senators may submit a question to the Senator rapporteur from a place lasting no more than a minute. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz and then Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u102	Mr. Senator rapporteur, Mr. Senator Bierecki, can you remind me of the calendar of events? Because, apparently, you, a member of the Monetary Policy Council, have already resigned once, as I remember, then withdrawn, then again, etc. Would you mind reminding me of the calendar? Because I'm completely lost, and I don't know where we are. That's one thing. Secondly, can you tell us anything about the reasons for this resignation? Thirdly, did you, a member of the Monetary Policy Council, attend a committee meeting? Looks like he even gave a medical discharge once, right? I'm confused.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u103	Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u104	Mr Marshal, of course Dr. Chrzanowski attended the committee meeting, as I said when I presented the report. By the way, I would like to warmly welcome the doctor who is present today and who is listening to our debate. The doctor has made clear the reasons for his resignation. These are personal reasons. None of the senators, members of the committee considered it appropriate to ask for details. Mr. Marshal thinks it's appropriate. In this situation, I am unable to give the marshal an answer which, in my understanding, would be inappropriate. Does that exhaust the answer to your question? [[No, I asked for an event calendar.]] Oh, and where we're at. Yes. We are at exactly the point where the committee has drawn up an opinion following a request that has been received. This request has not been withdrawn, Dr. Chrzanowski has maintained his will to resign. Therefore, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the committee gave a positive opinion on this proposal, respecting Dr Chrzanowski's position and his personal willingness to resign from such an important state function. The committee therefore asked the Senate to take a decision on this matter without delay. To answer Mr. Marshal's question, we are at exactly such a point that right now we can decide to dismiss Dr. Chrzanowski in accordance with his will.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u105	Thank you. Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u106	You will admit, Mr President, Mr Rapporteur and Mr PiS, that the situation is rather curious. Let's get to the question. In the face of your candidate's personal problems, have you asked him if he should be given any assistance? I see you're healthy, at least externally, but perhaps you have other problems. That's why I'm asking if there's a need for help. Second question. Did you ask whether this was the last decision? Because maybe we'll meet another candidate you've taken up with, a member of the council. Do you, who voted and presents this, take responsibility for the fact that you have exposed the Polish state to ridicule and to the costs resulting from these at least 3 contradictory decisions?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u107	Mr. Senator?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u108	Thank you very much. I think I should refer to two things. Firstly, I am not a member of the PiS authorities, I am not even a member of this party, although I am very supportive of this party's programme. Anyway, I don't see why I should get involved in party activity. There's no need for that. I'm doing the senator's ticket. So please excuse me from answering questions addressed to the party's management. Besides, I'm here as rapporteur for the committee. That's one thing. Secondly, as far as your question is concerned, whether it is necessary to provide assistance, etc., I would say that I, Senator, would refrain from asking such questions, I would ask, because here we are crossing certain limits, which I do not think it is appropriate to cross in this House. In this House, we should follow certain rules, I think. Out of respect, for example. This is my second term of office in this House, and I think we should rather remain restrained. If someone says they have personal reasons, they have personal reasons, period. This was also the position of the members of the committee, after all adopted unanimously. No one at the committee's hearing asked questions about personal reasons. Mr. Senator, when it comes to discrediting the Polish state, etc., there are different lines of fate. Life is not limited to public service. There are various events that make the paths of human life run differently. And this is not a disgrace to the Polish state, this is a normal course of life. And it must be borne in mind that, as people who deserve to be appointed to the Monetary Policy Council are referred to, this is also the case when they are referred to as important reasons for making such a decision. And it's our duty as Senate to decide that. After all, we will vote on this motion to dismiss Dr. Chrzanowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u109	Thank you very much. Mr. Marek Borowski. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u110	Thank you very much. Yeah, well, I think maybe you don't have to use words that big either. The embarrassment of the Polish state is still far away. [[Yes, sir.]] There are a few other examples in recent months where we could talk about it. I will refer to the senator's answer to Mr. Marshal Borusewicz's question, because it was not quite precise. You said that Mr. Chrzanowski simply resigned for personal reasons, and that's it, but I'd like to say yes, confirm it. This was all happening during the holiday period, so I'm based solely on press reports. Before the holiday we learned that Mr. Chrzanowski filed an appeal, but this application was not dealt with. She was supposed to take care of him by the committee, but we went on vacation and found out that Mr. Chrzanowski withdrew his application. I'd like to confirm whether he's actually withdrawn or if it's just a rumor. Are we simply considering the same application that was made in due course? Because if he withdrew this request, and now he's made it again, you'll admit the senator's interest in what's actually behind this double decision is not entirely unfounded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u111	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u112	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, I understand that this is a common question for you, because Senator Borowski has taken over to some extent the question of Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. [[No, no, he asked his own question.]] He said it again. [[Marshal Borowski asked his own question.]] [[Continue, Senator.]] Thank you very much. Gentlemen have already established among themselves who is the author of the question, and therefore I reply to Senator Borowski that we are considering a request sent to the Committee on Budget and Public Finance by Mr Marshal Karczewski on 5 October in connection with the resignation submitted by Mr Chrzanowski, which also bears the date of 5 October 2016. And this written resignation doesn't contain motives, it doesn't contain justification. Anyway, there's no need for that. The doctor did not have to justify it, but, as I said, when reporting the committee meeting, he justified it on personal grounds. [[Excuse me, Mrs. Marshal, I'd like to ask, because...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u113	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u114	Mr. Senator, you are a very intelligent man, and I'm sure you understand the question. I ask: has the previous application been withdrawn?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u115	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u116	The previous application, which was submitted, was withdrawn. After all, this is in the minutes of the previous... previous meetings. Yes, we have not considered this proposal, and the committee has not dealt with it. And on October 5th, a motion was received, which was addressed to the committee and which... [[Which one? It's supposed to be personal...]] So, as I said, precisely responding to the senator, we are considering the request of October 5, which was also forwarded by the Marshal to the committee on 5 October.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u117	I understand. Doesn't it seem a little strange to you, however, and if Mr. Chrzanowski is governed by personal considerations, then they should be permanent rather than variable? [[Maybe they stopped...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u118	But it's probably hard to judge the Senator rapporteur. [[They stopped at some point.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u119	Yes. I have to tell the senator that all my life experience indicates that personal considerations are variable. [[In a month? All right.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u120	Thank you very much. Please, let's avoid discussion because this is not the right time. Senator Tomasz Grodzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u121	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Senator, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I agree with Senator Bierecki here that personal matters should not be penetrated. Although we are in the upper chamber of our parliament, and if we had to, we would probably have kept the deliberations secret if it had any effect on the interests of the state. But I share the view that personal matters, even if they change within a month, should not be infiltrated. In this connection, I will ask you as gently as possible: whether the motives of the resignation of the doctor or Docent Chrzanowski I hear there's another explanation. As for his scientific rank, And these considerations were in any way linked to the substantive side of his activities in the Monetary Policy Council? That's all I'm interested in.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u122	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u123	Good. Thank you. I'm gonna step outside the report here a little bit. I also asked this question, if there are any considerations, reasons which would arise from the activities of your doctor in the Monetary Policy Council. I asked the President of the National Bank of Poland, Mr Glapiński. He assured me that there were no reasons for your doctor's work on the Monetary Policy Council being impeccable, in line with the expectations of the function entrusted to him.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u124	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u125	Mr. Senator Bierecki, you shouldn't be putting up any suppositions against the questioners, and you did it to me. You're talking about personal reasons. Personal reasons can be different: illness, aversion to further work... There may also be reasons related to the functioning of the university. I take it you didn't get it. But this situation, which is caused by resignation and withdrawal, must raise questions. And don't be surprised that such questions are raised. I understand that you know nothing more than what you said. Therefore, I, Mrs Marshal, would like the question to be asked by the member of the Monetary Policy Council present here. Because I took part in this January vote and voted with confidence that he would be on the Monetary Policy Council throughout his term of office. If a member of the Monetary Policy Council wanted to disclose these reasons or at least say in general what personal reasons mean, I would be very grateful. If not, I won't ask any more questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u126	Mr. Marshal, Dr. Marek Chrzanowski is in the courtroom, so in a moment when Question Time is over for the Senator of the rapporteur, he will be able to ask him a question, and Mr. Marek Chrzanowski will answer these questions as far as he can. But now we're asking the senator the rapporteur questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u127	I would very much like to answer that question, because we are bound by the rules of procedure to listen to the candidate or the person who resigns, by seeking to appoint a member of the board or appeal. That's what the rules say. and provide an opinion on the application for an appointment or an appeal. The Rules of Procedure do not oblige either the committee or the Senate to question the personal reasons behind the motion to resign. It is sufficient even to resign, this resignation would not have to be justified at all. Let me remind you that the rules of procedure do not require justification for resignation. I understand the natural human curiosity, the desire to find out what is really the cause, but I remind you to the Marshal that both Mr Chrzanowski has no obligation to justify his resignation, and we are not obliged to ask what personal reasons are at the heart of this resignation, which is, after all, a rare event in the history of the Monetary Policy Council. The Rules of Procedure clearly stipulate that resignation does not require justification. Dr. Chrzanowski, if he wishes, will answer, according to his will, but he does not have to answer such a question. The rules don't require that.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u128	Thank you very much. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u129	Mr President, delicateness with tenderness, culture with culture, but... I admire Dr. Chrzanowski, that in a situation where the media report problems with the authenticity of his research, he resigns. And I think it should raise respect if that's the real reason. It seems to me that until the case is settled in his favor or otherwise explained, this is how it should be. Did you refer to these media enunciations about which I am talking?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u130	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u131	During the committee meeting, we did not refer to this type of media innuendo. Dr. Chrzanowski, present here, can confirm the thesis or deny the thesis that there are any inquiries in this matter, answer whether there are any inquiries or anyone questioning it. However, I can certainly tell the senator that during the meeting of this kind of media inquiry committee, which I have just heard from your senator, because I have not heard such media insinuations. So we didn't do it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u132	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u133	Thank you. I'm sorry I wrote you wrongly to the P.I.S. Indeed, in the PIS they mostly say yes, yes, no, and all else comes from the devil. But you're rather favorable to this end, you don't answer questions, and that's what you're insinuating... [[Mr. Senator...]] But back to the question... [[Mr. Senator, ask me a question. It's really inappropriate...]] I'm going back to the question of these variable decisions that you might know, although you're almost a debutante in the Senate. The Constitutional Authority. This is not the typing of Misiewicz, Kaminski, who after 3 days is cancelled. The Monetary Policy Council serves stability, as you know best, the most important symbol of statehood or the factor of statehood, which is money trading. And if you take your side of the story, that would mean that this advice can change all the time for personal reasons. I'm asking you again about responsibility. And is it true that the previous case concerned disease, and now it is a matter of new revealed circumstances related to the plagiarism of scientific work? Did the board ask you this question?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u134	Senator Bierecki. [[Excuse me, committee members.]] Senator Bierecki seems to have answered this question several times, but to finish this thread... Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u135	Yes, sir. So neither disease, nor plagiarism, nor these innuendoes... None of these insinuations were discussed at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u136	Thank you very much. Once again, this answer has been answered, so I think there will be no more such questions for the Senator rapporteur. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u137	Thank you very much, Marshal. I have a question for the president. What do you think is at the root of these questions that we have just heard, in which are words, examples of insinuation and violation of the personal dignity of Dr. Chrzanowski, present here in the Chamber? Maybe you could do some evaluation. Why do such questions arise? Thank you. [[Curiosity.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u138	This is not the role of the Senator rapporteur, but if the senator wants to answer briefly... [[He doesn't have to.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u139	I'd be happy to answer that question outside this room when I can use another language. [[What's that?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u140	Ladies and gentlemen, are there any more questions for the rapporteur? I don't see... [[I have a question.]] Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u141	Mr. Senator, what language do you want to use outside this room? I understand that Polish is an option. [[Voice from the room: Private.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u142	I wouldn't want to speak to you in a Russian word, Mr. Marshal. [[Voice from the room: Na]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u143	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't see any more questions. Thank you, Senator rapporteur. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] Before adopting a resolution on the appeal, the Senate may invite a member of the Monetary Policy Council to provide explanations and answer questions from the senators. Would any of you senators like to ask Mr. Mark Chrzanowski a question? Maybe Dr. Marek Chrzanowski would like to speak at this moment? [[Member of the Monetary Policy Council Marek Chrzanowski: I am at your disposal.]] At your disposal if there are any questions. Are there any questions for you? Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. You're welcome. I'm inviting you here, Doctor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u144	Because Senator Bierecki was unable or unwilling to explain the reasons for your resignation, and he also stated that he would not want to answer me in Russian, I would ask you: what is the Russian word, Senator? And I would officially address you with this question: can you tell me what health, health, scientific reasons... You've heard these different statements. [[Family.]] This situation is pretty weird to me. You were elected by the Senate in January, and then you resigned, then you withdrew your resignation, and you didn't come... You sent L4 to the next committee, and now I don't really know anymore. You're giving up on me in the end. [[Corrigendum.]] If you could, I'd ask you to specify... even if you wanted to cut through certain... [[Mrs. Marshal, in corrigendum mode...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u145	Wait a minute. Have you finished asking the question, Mr. Marshal? [[Yes.]] Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u146	Two corrections. First of all, it is not true that Dr. Chrzanowski has given any medical leave to L4. There was no circumstance that... so I'm just gonna straighten it out: that's not true information. The second false information is that I do not give reasons for resignation. I presented them in the report according to how these reasons for resignation were accepted by the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u147	Thank you very much. Doctor, I'm asking you to answer this question as much as possible and as much as you like. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u148	I would very much like to explain why I resigned. I gave up personal reasons, as I explained yesterday at the committee meeting. [[And that's enough.]] I'd like to justify this answer a little deeper. These were not the reasons for my research or my work at the NBP. Work and university, and so far the NBP have been very good for me, and any guesses about the reasons for scientific work have no basis, and I'm just learning about something like this today. There is also no conflict, no problems working at the NBP Council works very well, substantively. The reasons for my resignation are purely personal and I would not like to explain them in a public forum. I assure you that these are not professional reasons. Thank you very much. [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u149	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u150	When we ask this question, Mr. Monetary Policy Council Member, we are not guided by malice. We aim to protect such a high constitutional position from various influences, among others. I'm so... I'm noticing now that some people are canceled after one day, which is worse than you're saying for personal reasons... But I'm going through... That's what happened, for example. with Mr. Kaminski, a member of the board of directors... [[Mr. Senator, ask me a question.]] Yeah, I'm sorry. Thank you for your attention. Now, let me ask you, is there any sudden cause in the group of these causes... [[Of course.]] ...a result of an accident. Because, as I understand it, Mr. Councilman, you were aware of a very difficult decision and did not involve the past. Is there an emergency, an accident... [[This is harassment. Mr. Senator, this is harassment.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u151	Mr. Senator, personal concerns are personal considerations. The doctor has no obligation to reveal either to the High House or to society. After all, it's all being broadcast. It's personal. Let's respect that, please. Is there any way you'd like to address this question? You're welcome, Doctor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u152	I wouldn't want you to have any doubts about making a decision. These are personal issues that I simply do not want to raise in the public forum, they are not related to my work. I have been talking about this for a long time with President Glapiński, who has shown some understanding for my decision. It's been an honor working at the RPP. It's a cadence function, and I'm giving it up consciously, and I know there's no going back. This is a thoughtful decision and I simply ask you to understand this decision and accept it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u153	Thank you very much, Doctor. Mr. Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u154	Thank you very much, Marshal. I would like to thank the doctor very warmly for his contribution to the Monetary Policy Council. I would also like to make you aware that not everyone in this House shares this inquisitorial, insinuating, harassing and unworthy of people, the solidarity of the way they ask questions. And my question is, how do you assess the functioning of the Monetary Policy Council?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u155	Please, Doctor. You've already told me you're a high-ranking man, but please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u156	Yeah, with that question, I'm definitely more comfortable. I'm a good judge. There are no conflicts in the council, there are, as in the discussion, usually different opinions, but it is normal in the collegial bodies. The Council works professionally, takes decisions according to the knowledge and conscience of its members. I don't see any irregularities or conflicts here. It seems to me that the tasks entrusted to us have been carried out so far and we will carry out them in a worthy manner and the council will certainly serve Poland well, as it has done so far.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u157	Thank you very much. You're still Senator Hamersky. You're welcome. And I'm asking you to ask questions about this particular point.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u158	Mrs. Marshal, Doctor, I think that my question will be the last question to your doctor because I have the impression that those who were interrogated at one time, at one time, sometimes behave like those who interrogated them. Of course, my question is a bit of a joke question, because I think that this series of questions lacked such a question: what did your grandfather do before the war? Then all those who interrogate you would be satisfied. [[Mr. Senator...]] Thank you. I'm not expecting an answer. [[Member of the Monetary Policy Council Marek Chrzanowski: I am able to answer.]] I don't expect an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u159	Mr. Senator, this is a question that... Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest we drop the question because Dr. Marek Chrzanowski explained that these are personal reasons so that we do not enter into a discussion that will bring nothing good, because... [[One sentence.]] Do you, Senator, really want to ask the question of whether you can give it up? [[Not a question, but a statement.]] But now it's... Ladies and gentlemen, there are no speeches now, but there are questions for you, Dr. Marek Chrzanowski. Do any of you have another question? [[In the form of a question.]] Please, Senator Bonkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u160	Doctor, I admire you for being able to resign. No matter what reason, I believe that for personal reasons, from such an honorable position as none of that environment would be able to do, on the other hand. They usually stick to stools, they're welded together. And it is incomprehensible to them that someone may give up such an honorable position.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u161	Mr. Senator! Mr. Senator, was that a question? That wasn't a question. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please, Senator Marek Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u162	Mrs. Marshal, I don't think there's any discussion at this point, do you? [[Yeah, there's no discussion, there's just questions.]] So we're left with this kind of questioning-spoken thing. What I'm trying to say, Doctor, is that the atmosphere has really gotten a little worse here, and I think it's completely unnecessary. The thing is, we're actually dealing with a rather unusual case. You know that. I mean, it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... not only with resignation, which And I don't know if I'm gonna say this for everyone, but I'm gonna say it for myself, because I was also asking you that the thing is that when you choose for different bodies, when the Senate makes decisions, it's very important to look at the criteria, to look at the candidate, to check him out in different ways. And these procedures are defined. And because there was a case like the one we're talking about here, there was a motion for an appeal shortly after the election, then the motion for an appeal was withdrawn, and then again the motion for an appeal... At least me when I asked. But I think there were others who didn't need these insinuations from some colleagues to see if we really had all... whether the criteria had been properly formulated or if something hadn't slipped our attention, because it would have to be improved in the future. I accept your answers on this matter, your explanations, especially what you said, that your resignation has nothing to do with the NBP's activities, the Council, or your scientific activities, that's important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u163	Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Mark Chrzanowski, for answering... [[Yet, Mrs. Marshal, a formal motion.]] You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u164	I move that the fifth item of the agenda be concluded. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[I want to make a corrigendum...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u165	I accept this motion as a formal one. [[I want to make a corrigendum...]] Corrigendum. [[...to Senator Bierecki's statement...]] In a moment, Mr. Marshal... [[Thank you very much.]] ...I didn't give you the floor. [[Thank you, gentlemen, for explaining...]] I accept this motion as a formal one. I thank Mr Mark Chrzanowski very much for answering senators' questions. Thank you very much, Doctor. Thank you very much. [[Member of the Monetary Policy Council Marek Chrzanowski: Thank you very much.]] [[Applause]] And I would like to inform you that the vote on this issue will be held today in the voting block. Mr. Marshal... [[Yes...]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm declaring an hour's rest... [[But can I make this right, short?]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u166	Because I don't want it after the break. Senator Bierecki said there was no L4 and the committee didn't... At one of the meetings, Mr. Senator, you also submitted information and a report... I mean, in short, about L4, I meant about the disease. [[Mr. Marshal, the information about the disease and the L4 are probably two different things.]] I understand, but with that... I understand that the senator said that L4 wasn't... [[There was no L4.]] [[L4 wasn't there.]] Yes, I understand the accuracy of your statement, but the committee has examined the motion... [[But there was no L4.]] Mr. Chrzanowski seems to have sent word that he's sick. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u167	Mr. Marshal, there was no L4 as I understand it. [[You can also get sick as a vacation.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby announce a recess until 12:00 p.m.... Oh, and the announcements, Senator Secretary. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u168	The Joint Meeting of the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union on the Resolution of the Law on the ratification of the Paris Agreement to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, drawn up in New York on 19 May 1992, adopted in Paris on 12 December 2015, will take place immediately after the announcement of the break in room 176. [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 08 to 12 minutes 00]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u169	I'm reopening the session. I propose that the agenda be supplemented by a point: the Law on the ratification of the Paris Agreement to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, drawn up in New York on 19 May 1992, adopted in Paris on 12 December 2015. and consider it as item six of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of votes, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. I would like to inform you that, after this point, we will be able to vote on the block of votes. We proceed with the examination of item six of the agenda: the Law on the ratification of the Paris Agreement to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, drawn up in New York on 19 May 1992, adopted in Paris on 12 December 2015. The text of the Act is contained in print No 292 and the report of the Commission In print No 292 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Adam Gawada, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u170	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased and honoured to present the position of the Joint Committees, the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union on the Act of ratification of the Paris Agreement to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, drawn up in New York on 19 May 1992, adopted in Paris on 12 December 2015, addressed by the Marshal of the Sejm to the Senate today. High Izbo, at today's committee meeting, the Minister outlined the bill of 5 October 2016. The Paris Agreement to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, drawn up in Paris on 12 December 2015, establishes multilateral rules on climate protection beyond 2020. I would like to stress that the most important achievement of the agreement is the commitment of all the countries of the world to work towards climate protection. This agreement departs from the very rigid division so far between countries with emission reduction commitments and the remaining ones, and the key commitments apply to all parties. I wish, High Izbo, to highlight the very important aspects of the objectives of this agreement. This is primarily to ensure that greenhouse gas emissions are reduced by the global but also by the solidarity efforts of all countries. In addition, the Agreement introduces the so-called Agreement. a cycle of ambition, i.e. all parties are required to make regular contributions to emission reductions in accordance with their respective capabilities. It is also clear from the information provided by the Minister that the agreement provides flexibility in the implementation of national contributions to emission reductions through market mechanisms. I would also like to stress that this urgent procedure of this law is justified by the need for Poland to deposit the instrument of ratification of the Paris Agreement by 7 October this year in New York, when the final date for ratification of the agreement for countries wishing to be parties to it at the time of the entry into force of the agreement at the COP22 climate summit in Marrakesh. Compliance with this deadline will allow the Republic of Poland to deposit its instrument of ratification at the same time as the European Union and together with a few of its Member States which have already completed the national ratification procedure. In addition, the adoption of this agreement will allow full participation of the Republic of Poland in the first meeting of the parties to the agreement on 7 November this year. The joint committees have adopted the law unanimously and on behalf of the joint committees I request the High Senate to adopt this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u171	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? There are no volunteers. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for the Environment and the Minister for Foreign Affairs were authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would Minister Paweł Salał like to take the floor on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment Paweł Sałek: Thank you, Mr. Marshal, but I don't think that's necessary. Everything was cleared up, so the senators know the case. If there's a specific question, of course I'm ready to answer, but in this situation...]] Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment Paweł Salek: Thank you very much.]] At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No, there are no applicants. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held in the voting block. [[Voice from the courtroom: Now, take five, 10 minutes, Mr. Marshal.]] I'm declaring a recess until 12.20. [[Adjournment from 12 minutes 07 to 12 minutes 21]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u172	Please take your seats, gentlemen of the Senators. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. I'm reopening the session. We return to the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Act on a works concession or service contract. During the interruptions, the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation held a meeting which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject. It is in print No 269 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u173	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The committees did really good work during the process of this law, also thanks to good cooperation with the Ministry. In accordance with this, we unanimously propose that amendments Nos 1.5 and 9.45 be adopted. Let's vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u174	Thank you very much. Would Senator Andrzej Stanisławek like to speak again? [[Yes.]] You're welcome, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u175	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. If the Marshal and the House agree, I would like us to vote as you have proposed, Senator Augustine, which is the block on the adoption of amendments No 1.44, which will rule out amendments Nos 6, 7 and 8. The second vote would be in favour of Amendments 5, 18, 21, 35, 37 and 45 and we would then vote on the whole. Thank you very much. [[I understand that these are the two blocks: amendments No 1.44 and...]] [[Amendments 5, 18, 21...]] [[This is the first block? Because the senator read something else.]] Yeah, first this block. Then, separately, amendments 5, 18, 21, 35, 37 and 47. [[Amendments 35 and 45.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u176	Did you agree at the committee meeting? [[Yeah, we agreed.]] [[Yes.]] Good. Maybe I'll read the first block proposal. The proposal for a joint vote on the amendments to the Act on a works concession or service contract is: amendments Nos 1 Is that so? [[Yes.]] Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. For 70 senators 69 voted in favour, against 1. [[Voting No 3]] The amendments have been accepted. Now we vote Amendment Block 5, 18, 21, 35, 37 and 45. They harmonise legal arrangements for in-house public procurement and in-house concessions, in particular by adding rules to ensure the transparency of the award of such concessions. The adoption of these amendments excludes voting on Amendments 6, 7 and 8. Did I read it correctly? [[Yes.]] I understand that there is no objection to voting on these amendments to the block. We'll proceed with the vote. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 71 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 4]] The amendments have been accepted. And now... [[Voice from the room: The whole.]] One second, one second... We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 71 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 5]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has unanimously adopted a resolution on the Act on a works concession or service contract. Thank you very much. We are returning to the second agenda: the Law on the amendment of the Food Safety and Nutrition Act. The Health Commission presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 275 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 72 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 6]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Food Safety and Nutrition. We return to the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the National School of Public Administration and some other laws. A meeting of the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is in print No 273 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Arthur Warzocha, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u177	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At its meeting on 5 October, the Commission examined the proposals submitted in the course of the same day's debate on the Law amending the Act on the National School of Public Administration and certain other laws and recommends that the High Senate adopt the Act without amendments. Two minority applications were also submitted: the first, submitted by Senator Flork to give the school, instead of the name of President Lech Kaczyński, the name of Tadeusz Mazowiecki; the second, submitted by Senators Augustyn, Grodzki and Rulewski, to replace the words of President Ryszard Kaczorowski. These are minority conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u178	Thank you very much. I ask the minority rapporteur of the committee, Senator Piotr Flork, to present a proposal supported by a minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u179	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I broadly justified this conclusion, so now I just repeat that the minority proposal is to name the school Tadeusz Mazowiecki. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u180	Thank you very much. I ask the minority rapporteur of the committee, Senator Piotr Ziientarski, to present a proposal supported by a minority of committees. [[There's no senator.]] There's no senator? [[Talking in the O.R.]] But the motion was put forward by the chairman of the committee, so I'm allowed to skip it. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak on this matter? Mr. Senator Rulewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u181	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Three good candidates: Mr Mazowiecki, Mr Lech Kaczyński and Mr Ryszard Kaczorowski. [[And Jan Rulewski.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Applause]] I knew well two characters: Kaczyński and Sorry, no names. And Mazowiecki. Less Kaczorowski. I say that in such a situation, after such different discussions, both Mazowiecki and Lech Kaczyński would vote for President Ryszard Kaczorowski. I'm saying you'd do the same. The older one. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u182	Thank you very much. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed with the vote on the committee's motion to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 73 senators took part in the vote, 49 voted in favour, 24 against. [[Voting No 7]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the National School of Public Administration and some other laws. We return to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Military Property Agency. The National Defence Commission presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments, Senate printing No 290 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The 73 senators voted 50 in favour, 23 against. [[Voting No 8]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Military Property Agency. We return to the examination of item six of the agenda: the Law on the ratification of the Paris Agreement to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, drawn up in New York on 19 May 1992, adopted in Paris on 12 December 2015. The Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments, Senate printing No 292 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The 73 Senators voted 72 in favour and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 9]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on the ratification of the Paris Agreement to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, drawn up in New York on 19 May 1992, adopted in Paris on 12 December 2015. We would like to return to the discussion of the fifth item on the agenda: the cancellation of a member of the Monetary Policy Council. We are voting on the appeal of a member of the Monetary Policy Council. The Senate shall adopt a resolution on this matter by a secret absolute majority vote in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of senators. A secret ballot shall take place using sealed ballots. To hold a secret vote, I appoint the secretaries, senators Rafał Ambrozik, Waldemar Sługocki and Łukasz Mikołajczyk. In a moment, the appointed senators will be handing out secret ballots to the senators. On the ballot... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'd like a moment of silence, please. Gentlemen of the Senators, just a moment. The secret ballot shall be marked with only one mark on the ballot. A ballot card with more than one mark on it or no mark on it shall be deemed to be invalid. After filling out the cards, the senators who are read in alphabetical order will throw these cards into the urn. The session will then be adjourned, during which the senators will calculate the votes and draw up the minutes of the secret ballot. I now ask the senators of the Secretaries to hand out the ballots and the senators to fill out the ballots. I ask Senator Rafał Ambrozik to read the names of the senators sequentially, and I ask the senators to put their names in the urn filled with secret ballots after reading them. [[We don't have cards.]] [[Yet, Mr. Marshal, we need the ballots.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Mr. Marshal, tell me that in the absence of Senator Sługocki he was replaced by Senator Jerzy Wcisła.]] [[I didn't get my card.]] In the absence of Senator Waldemar Sługocki, you replaced him with Senator Wcislo.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u183	Jan Filip Libicki, Rafał Ambrozik, Anna Anders, Mieczysław Augustyn, Adam Bielan, Grzegorz Bierecki, Przemysław Błaszczyk, Alexander Bobko, Richard Bonisławski, Waldemar Bonkowski, Marek Borowski, Bogdan Borusewicz, Barbara Boris-Damięcka, Margareta Budner, Jerzy Chróścikowski, Zbigniew Silence, Leszek Czarnobaj, Grzegorz Czelej, Jerzy Czerwinski, Dorota Czudowska, Wiesław Dobkowski, Jan Dobrzyński, Robert Dowhan, Jarosław Duda, Jerzy Fedorowicz, Peter Florek, Robert Gaweł, Adam Gawada, Stanisław Gogacz, Mieczysław Golba, Arkadiusz Grabowski, Thomas Grodzki, Maciej Grubski, Jan Hamerski, Jan Maria Jackowski, Andrzej Kaminski, Stanisław Karczewski, Wiesław Kilian, Kazimierz Kleina, Bogdan Klich, Andrzej Kobiak, Maria Sophia Blanket, Stanisław Rooster, Władysław Komarnicki, Tadeusz Kopeć, Margaret Kopiczko, Waldemar Kraska, Maciej Łuczak, Józef Łyczak, Richard Majer, Robert Mammetov, Marek Martynowski, Łukasz Mikołajczyk, Andrzej Mioduszewski, Andrzej Bear, Christopher Frost, Grzegorz Napieralski, Jarosław Oremski, Bogusława Orzechowska, Andrzej Spider, Maria Panczyk-Podziej, Grzegorz Pekkis, Mark Pęk, Wojciech Piech, Leszek Piechota, Alexander Pociej, Marian the Messenger, Michał Potrowiczny, Krystian Probier, Zdzisław Pupa, Constantine Radziwill, Marek Rocki, Tadeusz Romanchuk, Jadwiga Rotnicka, Jan Rulewski, Jarosław Rusiecki, Sławomir Rybicki, Czesław Ryszka, Janina Sagatowska, Michael Sewerinski, Christopher Elephant, Waldemar Sługocki, Andrzej Stanisławek, Lydia Staron, Grażyna Sztark, Alexander Swed, Antoni Szymanski, Raphael the locksmith, Przemysław Terminski, Peter Wach, Arthur Warzocha, Jerzy Wczyła, Kazimierz Wind, Jacek Włosowicz, Andrzej Wojtyla, Alicia the Hare, Joseph the Hare, Barbara Zdrojewska, Piotr Zientarski, Jan Żaryn.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u184	Have all the senators voted? Good. I don't see anyone who wouldn't give up. Thank you. Now I ask the senators of the Secretaries to calculate the votes and draw up a secret ballot protocol. I'm ordering a 10-minute break. [[Adjournment from 12 minutes 38 to 12 minutes 49]] Please take your seats. Gentlemen of the Senators, come in. We would like to return to the discussion of the fifth item on the agenda: the cancellation of a member of the Monetary Policy Council. I would like to inform you that the senators of the Secretaries have completed the calculation of votes and have drawn up a secret ballot protocol. I declare the results of the vote on the appeal of Marek Chrzanowski as a member of the Monetary Policy Council. Senators Rafał Ambrozik, Tomasz Grodzki, Łukasz Mikołajczyk, who were appointed by the Senate Marshal to vote secretly on the appeal of Marek Chrzanowski from the position of member of the Monetary Policy Council, cast 71 votes, including important 71 votes. The absolute majority of votes required shall be 36. 47 Senators voted in favour of the appeal against 22 and 2 Senators abstained. In view of obtaining the required absolute majority of votes, the Senate dismissed Marek Chrzanowski as a member of the Monetary Policy Council. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: information about the significant problems arising from the activities and case law of the Constitutional Tribunal in 2015. The text of the information is provided in print No 157. The Senate Marshal sent the information received to the Legislative Commission. The Commission took note of the information submitted at its meeting on 28 June 2016 and informed the Senate Marshal. I would like to welcome the President of the Constitutional Court, Mr Andrzej Rzepliński, present at the Senate meeting. Welcome. [[Applause]] I ask the President to take the floor and present the information.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u185	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Maybe I'll start with this sentimental sentence: 22 years ago, 21 years ago here, in this place where Senator Seweryński currently sits, but with another furnishing of the hall, I represented President Lech Wałęsa for 2 years during the work of the Constitutional Commission of the National Assembly, which was a great school and of course an honor for me, but also a responsibility to prepare a draft constitution that became our law on 2 April 1997. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for inviting me to the Senate meeting. As every year I will provide you with information about the significant problems arising from the activities and case law of the Constitutional Tribunal in the previous year, which the General Assembly of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal adopted in April of this year. In view of the fact that my speech was exceptionally due only in the autumn, I would also like to mention some of the effects of the Court's work this year and the realities in which the Court is currently operating. A summary of last year's activities of the Constitutional Tribunal will start with basic figures. 623 cases, applications, legal questions and constitutional actions were brought before the Court. This was the highest annual impact of the cases in the history of the Constitutional Tribunal by 17,5% higher than the impact in 2014. The number of cases subject to initial recognition was 442 and was 6% higher than in the previous year and the number of cases not eligible for preliminary recognition amounted to 181 and was as high as 60% higher than the year before. As so far, constitutional actions have dominated the cases brought before the Court. Last year there were 408, which is 65%. all cases brought before the Court and dealt with in substance. Last year was also record for the Constitutional Court in terms of the number of cases settled and decisions given. The Court decided 303 cases by 93% More than a year ago. Some cases were dealt with jointly by the Court and issued a total of 173 substantive judgments, 63 sentences and 110 provisions to cancel the proceedings. I do not know why this is the case, but this is the logic of constitutional judgments in the EU countries, which spend about 40 and 60, rarely more, e.g. 80 convictions a year. We passed 63 sentences last year and 110 orders to drop the case. The number of substantive decisions issued was higher by 45% than that of 2014. Among these 63 judgments, i.e. substantive decisions, in 35 cases the Court ruled that at least one of the contested provisions was unconstitutional, which constituted 56% All the convictions. Throughout the 30th anniversary The existence of the Constitutional Tribunal was so arranged that in 49% of the cases the Court ruled on non-constitutionality, and in 51% The constitutionality of the contested provisions. At the preliminary audit stage, the Court issued a total of 918 provisions and regulations, i.e. 11%, at constitutional complaints and requests of limited card holders. More than a year ago. For a substantive examination, the Court referred 10% constitutional complaints and 52% requests from entities with limited legitimacy. In addition, the Court issued 5 signalling provisions addressed to the Marshal of the Sejm in order to ensure the consistency of the system of law by the bodies constituting the law. As regards the substantive aspect of last year's judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal, I would like to focus, as in my earlier speech at the Senate Legislative Commission, on judgments relating to the basis of the regime of the Republic of Poland. Allow me to disregard the detailed presentation of judgments on human rights and freedoms, limiting myself to the indication of those which I believe are relevant to our citizens. These are judgments in cases such as a conscience clause for doctors, a tax-free amount, a bank enforcement title and freedom of association in trade unions by persons employed on a different basis than a contract of employment. To move on to last year's case-law on public affairs, I would like to draw your attention to the Court's statements on the 2 principles of the Constitution: the principle of division, balance and cooperation between the authorities and the principle of independence of courts and independence of judges. The Court points out that, according to the principle of the division of the authorities, Each of the 3 authorities should have a substantive competence corresponding to its substance. Moreover, each of the three authorities should retain the appropriate exclusivity quantum of its competence to preserve that being. The balance of the authorities means the influence of the authorities on each other and the mutual complementing of their functions, loyal respect, with proper democracys of periodic tensions... real respect for the division, balance, interaction and braking of the authorities. This is the foundation of the stable functioning of the mechanisms of the democratic state and the rule of law. The Court stressed that the judicial authority is a separate and independent authority from the other authorities. Its essence, and thus its exclusive competence, is the exercise of justice, i.e. the recognition and resolution of cases brought before it. The Constitution ensures full independence for the courts here. This means, among other things, that the exercise of judicial functions by courts takes place without any sovereign interference by the authorities of other authorities. This also applies to the Minister of Justice, who is the executive authority, who exercises external administrative supervision over the activities of universal courts. The fundamental judgments of the Polish State are undoubtedly 4 judgments in the Constitutional Tribunal laws: judgment of 3 December 2015 on certain provisions of the 2015 Court Act in its original version, judgment of 9 December 2015 on the November amendment of the Court Act, judgment of 9 March 2016 on the December amendment and judgment of 11 August 2016 on the July 2016 Court Act. In each of these judgments The Court found that there was no constitutionality: in three cases Some of the contested provisions, in one whole law. I will return to two sentences this year in my speech. Judgments in these cases have been brought because the bodies empowered to initiate proceedings before the Court, in view of the constitutionality of those laws, have referred to the Court the conclusions on the control of their constitutionality. Effective protection of the Constitution and, above all, the principles of the rule of law, democracy, the rule of law, justice and freedom and human rights and citizens enshrined therein require effective cooperation with the Court of Justice of many actors: Parliament, the President, the Government, the courts and local authorities, but also social partners, employers, professional organisations, churches and religious unions, NGOs and, on the contrary, non-governmental organisations and, on the contrary, individual citizens. From the Court's perspective, this cooperation may result in a derogation, i.e. the removal from the legal system of such a standard, if the entity initiating the procedure for the control of the constitutionality of the law provides strong arguments for the non-constitutionality of the legal standard concerned. The Court itself is not a law. Following a judgment declaring unconstitutionality to restore the constitutionality of the law, the most common need is a positive response by the legislator, which, if necessary, complements the legal system with a constitutional standard. Then the constitutionality of a specific normative act is restored. That is the enforcement of the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal by the legislator. The constitutional obligation to enforce the judgments of the Court and restore the constitutional status of the law is incumbent on the entities initiating the legislative procedure. Two of them play a particular role: the Senate and the Council of Ministers. In 2007, the Senate added to its Rules of Procedure Section IXa entitled "Execution of decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal'. In this way, he has clearly confirmed his important role in the efforts to improve our legal order. At the same time, it is noted that the Senate correctly directs this activity, as it focuses on the execution of judgments which do not involve any financial expenditure not provided for in the Budget Act. As regards the second group of judgments, the Council of Ministers has the main role to play. The President of the Republic may also have a role in the execution of judgments, which initiates most legislative proceedings on the basic acts governing the judicial system in Poland. Last year, the Senate initiatives aimed at executing the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal were less than usual, only 4, while the year before were 15. However, such a decrease is understandable. The electoral year shall be the end of the term of office of the Sejm and the Senate, and it shall always take some time for the chambers of the new term to shape their practice, including in the case of the execution of decisions of the Court. It was similar in the previous election year, i.e. in 2011, although the decrease in the number of senate initiatives aimed at executing the Court's judgments was smaller: there were 13 of them compared to 20 in the previous year. I hope that during this term of office the Senate will continue the tradition of fruitful cooperation with the Court in order to restore the constitutionality of the law. I regard as a continuation of this tradition the legislative initiatives of the Senate IX term to implement the judgments of the Court. They concern the rules for making documents available by the Institute of National Remembrance, the right to the allowance to the family allowance and the right to rehabilitation, the rules for granting the right to or the amount of the pension and the internal audit provided for in the Public Finance Act. Moreover, according to the information contained in the public domain, the Senate is working to bring forward initiatives implementing the judgment on housing cooperatives and the judgment on the unlimited admissibility of annulment of a decision taken in gross violation of the law, and the Senate Legislative Commission is examining further judgments of the Court. I hope that the Senate will soon also address the judgments delivered by the Court this year, starting with the judgment in Case K 47/15, delivered on 9 March this year. This year, unfortunately, we won't consider as many cases and we won't give as many judgments as last year. The Court seeks to act normally, but its work is constantly hindered by the actions of certain other public authorities contrary to the constitutional principle of division, balance and cooperation between the authorities and the constitutional principle of independence and separation of judicial authority. The President's failure to comply with the judgment of the Court of 3 December 2015 so far results in the fact that 3 judges of the Court, or 1/5 of its composition, duly elected by the Sejm of the previous term of office on 8 October cannot start office. If this sentence were respected by the Sejm and the President, the scale of the constitutional crisis would be much smaller and perhaps already resolved. I am not optimistic about the cast of the judges after three more judges, including me, whose term will expire during the current term of office of the Sejm. It is with sadness that I must also mention the lack of legislative concern of the legislative authority, including unfortunately also the Senate, which consists in issuing successive laws on the Constitutional Court every few weeks or months. This creates a number of organisational and procedural difficulties for the Court and requires it to pay attention to the constitutionality of the Court's statutory basis for action rather than to rule on other matters. Nor can the arbitrary granting by the President of the Council of Ministers of competence to refuse to publish the judgments of the Court in official journals, and ultimately to himself, by a more undefined authority, of competence to indicate the judgments which he intends to honour and those whose respect is prohibited. These actions are incomprehensible from the point of view of the Constitution, which every judge has vowed to stand before the President. This cannot be described in legal terms, it can only be described in terms of force being treated in a form of law. Despite all these obstacles, the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal are trying, in accordance with their vows, to serve the nation and to uphold the constitution, and to fulfil their duties impartially and with the utmost care, upholding the constitution which the people themselves have set up and which, therefore, the ordinary parliamentary majority cannot change. In this way, they protect the nation's sovereign decision to bind itself to a constitution against rash changes, motivated by ad hoc political interests, changes made in ordinary laws, not in the Constitutional Amendment Act. The Court issued this year before the Court's holiday, i.e. by the first half of August, 23 sentences and 48 termination orders. In addition, a total of 598 provisions and regulations were issued at the pre-control stage of constitutional complaints and applications. The judgments in which the Court ruled that at least one of the contested provisions was unconstitutional were 11 of those 23. They concerned: the December amendment of the Law on the Court of Justice of 2015, the July Act on the Court of Justice of 2016, the appeal against decisions of the State Election Commission, the access of the Minister of Justice to court files in military courts, access to test questions from final medical examinations, insolvency proceedings, driving licences for disabled persons, the rules for drawing up an appeal against the judgment of the second instance, the amount of fees in enforcement proceedings in administration, the rules for placing persons wholly incapacitated in social care homes and the rules for returning unduly collected rehabilitation benefits. As it is easy to note, this year's judgments declaring the unconstitutionality of at least one of the contested provisions have come into play in matters which are the subject of the need to protect the subjectivity of man, of every man. These judgments are difficult to regard as a manifestation of the Court's interference with the sphere of political power. On 30 September this year another draft law regulating the functioning of the Constitutional Tribunal was introduced into the Sejm. This is supposed to be one of three new laws laying down the statutory rules for the functioning of the constitutional court. I ignore the fact that the adoption of the system law every quarter This is the law on the Constitutional Court or its amendment which undermines the authority of the State and its laws, but I would like to point out with all force that any subsequent law governing the functioning of the Court must absolutely respect the case law of the Constitutional Court. This is a constitutional obligation of the legislator, not a matter of his will. Any new statutory regulation of the Court should also take into account the opinion of the Venice Commission and the recommendations of the European Commission. Further ignoring these documents by the Polish authorities will not be an expression of the sovereignty of the Republic of Poland It will be an expression of the Polish state's resignation from its rightful authority in Europe and in the world of authority and its seriousness. It is difficult to assign these qualities to a country trying to evade international obligations, which itself, with its sovereign decision, has adopted on itself and which are in line with the fundamental values of our law, with the constitution. In order not to prolong my information about the activities of the Constitutional Tribunal, I will not refer further to these European documents. I will refer only to the judgment of 9 March 2016 in case K 47/15 and the judgment of 11 August 2016 in case K 39/16 and indicate some of the constitutional requirements for the statutory regulation of the Court, explained in detail in those judgments. Firstly, the legislator must respect the position of the Constitutional Tribunal in the constitutional system of the State's authorities, resulting in particular from the principle of the division, balance and interaction of the authorities and the principle of independence and separation of the judicial authority. The Constitution clearly defines the powers of the Court and the status of its Judges. As regards the exercise of their office, they are to be free and subject only to the Constitution. As long as the Constitution is not amended in accordance with the procedure laid down in it, no law may modify these principles or attempt to restrict the powers of the Court. Independence of the Constitutional Tribunal is a fundamental condition for effective control of the constitutionality of the law, and therefore a fundamental condition for ensuring the primacy of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland and the fulfilment of the freedoms and human and citizen rights set out therein. The Court's independence is intended to guarantee its real capacity to control legislative activities. The legislator may not deprive the Court of that function. The legislator is also bound by the constitution. Secondly, the legislator must ensure that the Constitutional Court can act fairly and efficiently, as required by the preamble to our Constitution. Reliable and efficient. It must not result in a reduction in the Court's existing level of action. One of the conditions for the Court to act efficiently and fairly is to shape the way in which the Court decides, i.e. to take decisions on the content of the decision. This requires, inter alia, an appropriate determination of the quorum and the majority of the votes needed to deliver the judgment. They may not be excessively high, and the majority of votes needed to deliver a ruling must be, in accordance with the one-sounding provision of the Constitution, by a simple majority. The formations at the Court must be defined by the law in such a way as to ensure a fair and efficient investigation of the case, i.e. an impartial, independent and without undue delay. The reliability of the ruling is guaranteed by substantive competence, professional experience and high morale of the formation of the court, and not solely by their number. In turn, the choice of different compositions to deal with particular types of cases should be based on a reasonable criterion. This means, among other things, that larger formations should only be designated for complex cases or for acts above the hierarchy of legal sources, and that a minority of non-jurisdictional judges cannot freely decide that de facto each case will be recognised in full. Thirdly, the legislator must not order the Constitutional Court to deal with matters in an order of influence. This would result in the speed of dealing with cases being subject to entirely random circumstances. Both cases which are relatively simple to settle and cases with a very high degree of complexity are brought to the Court. It is clear that the former require less time to be identified than the latter. The obligation to wait in a simple case only because it has followed a case which requires longer work by the Court is irrational. The Constitution itself knows the concept of a draft urgent act, Art. Article 123 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3. The same applies to the setting of earlier admissible time limits in isolation from whether the Court is already ready to decide. The imposition of a rigid procedure for the examination of cases by the Court is a violation of the principle of independence and separation of the judicial authority. The role of the legislator is to create optimal conditions of judgment, not to control the stream of cases affecting the Court. In other words, the legislator is to prepare a law to the Court, not the Rules of Procedure. Imagine what the work of the Senate would have been like if an external body had imposed regulations on it, not to mention the reality, the rules in force and the customs in the House. Fourthly, the legislator must not make the possibility for the Court to hear the case subject to the intercession of the Attorney General or his representative in cases where the law provides for the involvement of the Attorney General. Such a solution is in breach of the principle of the Court's independence and separation from the other authorities and of the principle of efficiency and integrity of public institutions, since it leads to the possibility that the prosecutor-general may, by means of a simple act of fact, freely block the Court from examining each case. Failure to perform a simple factual action may become an instrument aimed at blocking the Court's activities, which is also well demonstrated by the non-constitutional practice of refusing to publish the Court's judgments in official journals. The attempt to legalise it contained the provisions on the publication of judgments contained in the original wording of the current Constitutional Court Act of 22 July this year. In such attempts to block the Court's work or deprive it of its effectiveness, it is ultimately a question of whether the political authority whose law the Court is to control in terms of its compatibility with the Constitution will decide for itself whether or not to submit to that control. It's like on a micro scale... like the police stopped the driver for speeding, and then asked him if he wanted to take the ticket, or if he was going to continue at equally irregular speed and without any consequences. Other statutory mechanisms for blocking or slowing down the Court's work, such as the institution of opposition of a group of at least four judges, resulting in the adjournment of judicial deliberations on the case, contained in the original wording of the current Court Act, are also unacceptable. This solution leads to a situation in which four judges can de facto stop the case, even if the other 11 are ready to give a ruling. Fifthly, a possible new law governing the disciplinary liability of the judges of the Court must not affect their independence, it must not have the intention of the judges to fear This is unimaginable in an EU country Therefore, the disciplinary responsibility of constitutional judges must remain fully within the exclusive competence of the Court. It is up to the Court to decide for itself to initiate the procedure, to conduct the procedure itself and to determine the effects of the procedure on its own. I would like to point out that disciplinary responsibility is an additional form of legal liability of a constitutional judge which does not exclude its administrative, civil or criminal responsibility. Sixthly, no law, including any subsequent laws governing the functioning of the Constitutional Tribunal, may constitute an attempt to circumvent the judgments of the Court. Such a sample contained the current Act on the Court of Justice in its original wording to circumvent the judgment of the Court of Justice of 3 December 2015 in the case of signage. K 34/15 relating to the procedure for the election of constitutional judges last year. Contrary to the assumption which is likely to give rise to this intention, the judgment of the Court cannot be annulled by law. The mere fact that the Court's judicate is final is also part of a mechanism which increases the diligence of the legislator in the procedure of good lawmaking. This is the practice of Western European legal culture countries; it is one of the important mechanisms to enforce the procedure of good law if necessary. Seventhly, the possible new legislative regulation of the functioning of the Constitutional Tribunal should contain transitional provisions allowing the rational application of new acts to cases brought before the entry into force of those acts. The point is, in particular, that the validity of the procedural acts already carried out should not be crossed, because otherwise, it is indeed and above all unnecessarily delaying the examination of cases where this finding is already advanced at the Court. When the Court receives a new law every three months, it is really from the point of view of the rational operation of the institutions, including the Constitutional Tribunal, of a body with special sensitivity... It's to disorganize this job at all. The point is that judges should not rule because it is not clear what the legislator will adopt in the transitional provisions, and without this it is impossible to reasonably look at the new law in the context of the previous law and in the context of cases which have already been pending before the Court and whose recognition has begun. The deletion of proceedings already carried out is an interference in the Court's ruling process and violates the principle of independence and separation of judicial authority and the principle of the efficiency and integrity of public institutions. And it's not the Court's idea, it's an order from the embodiment. After the eighth, well-written law on the Constitutional Court should specify precisely the procedure for selecting a lawyer distinguished by legal knowledge for the vacant office of a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. The time should be guaranteed to report candidates to the Marshal of the Sejm. Different entities should have the right to notify. The principle that at least 15 Members have the power to designate potential candidates for the position of judge should be maintained. This entitlement is consistently linked to the subsequent implementation of the parliamentary right to submit candidates in the political context of the choice of judge of the Court. The right to submit candidates to the Marshal of the Sejm should also be conferred on the General Assembly of Judges of the Supreme Court, the General Assembly of Judges of the Supreme Administrative Court, the National Judicial Council, the National Council of Prosecutors, the competent national authorities of professional authorities Each of the eligible entities could report one person per judge of the Court. Such a group of actors would represent a broad representation of legal backgrounds and would guarantee the possibility of taking advantage of a wide range of potential candidates for the position of a judge, with high qualifications corresponding to the requirements that we must give to every judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. The values of the candidates would be presented in a public discussion. I would like to emphasise this in particular. It would thus far belong to the Bureau of the Sejm or to a group of at least 50 Members who would indicate the candidate or candidates submitted to the plenary of the Sejm in order to make the final act of selection of the judge, the final act, irrevocable, unchanged. After the ninth, a possible new statutory regulation of the functioning of the Constitutional Tribunal should provide for appropriate vacathio legis, so that the Court can prepare itself for the effective application of the new acts and have the possibility, if new laws are challenged by any of the eligible entities, to review these laws before they enter into force. Ladies and gentlemen, this year the Court celebrates its 30th anniversary. This Jubilee shall be counted from the date of the first judgment by the Court, in which it found, to be derogatory of its power, that the Council of Ministers regulation was incompatible with the Constitution. In turn next year it will be 20 years after the adoption and entry into force of the Constitution of the Third Republic of Poland. The system of constitutional democracy of the western state of legal culture may have its drawbacks, but the establishment of a constitution of 1997 and the proper regulation in it of the Constitutional Tribunal are among the most important events in the recent political and legal history of Poland. Under the Constitution established by the will of the nation and protected case law of the Court, Poland joined NATO and the European Union. It has also increasingly instilled in its territory the value of a Western legal culture based on democracy, the rule of law and the natural and inalienable dignity of man. Poland itself also brought more and more into this legal culture. Let us not turn away from our common achievements, our efforts. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u186	Thank you, Mr. President. [[Formal conclusion.]] There you go, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u187	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, I'd like to make a formal request for a recess by 19 October by 10 a.m. The justification is as follows: President Rzepliński, in his speech, went beyond the substantive scope of the point which was "Information on the significant problems arising from the activities and case-law of the Constitutional Tribunal in 2015, and undertook to review current cases from Parliament, so that we have time to prepare for the debate, I ask you to order a break by 19 October to 10.00. Thank you. [[Rejected!]] [[He's against it!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u188	Is the motion against it? [[There's no quorum...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u189	Yeah, yeah, I'm making the opposite motion: to continue the debate. [[I am joining this proposal and I would like to justify it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u190	To which conclusion, Mr. Senator Rulewski? [[This.]] Okay, here you go. [[Where are you going?]] [[Speaker's busy.]] [[On the spot, on the spot.]] [[President of the Constitutional Tribunal Andrzej Rzepliński: Ah, well, I'm the one here...]] [[No, no, Mr. President...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u191	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The fact that our colleagues on the opposing side are boycotting the speech of the President of the Constitutional Tribunal... Senator Jackowski's motion cannot be accepted, which is fundamentally false, false, political. And all the more so, it is impossible to limit the freedom of speech, the freedom of speech that has taken place in the Senate since the beginning of its existence. [[In corrigendum mode, Mr. Marshal!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u192	There you go, Mr. Senator Jackowski. [[Just keep it down.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u193	I'm not restricting anyone, I'm just... Because the President wanted to address a number of contexts that were not foreseen under this paragraph. And I have prepared for this 2015 year, I would like to have time to prepare for the discussion. I don't take anybody's... So Senator Rulewski's thesis is false, and they're not substantive... [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: But you are not the majority!]] [[Mr. Senator, one more time, please repeat that last sentence because you turned off the microphone.]] I'm sorry. The thesis put forward by Senator Rulewski in the assessment of my proposal is not of a substantive nature, but of a political nature. Oh, yeah. I want it to be well marked in the protocol. Thank you. [[Okay, let's vote!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u194	Because he's against it, objection... [[We're voting!]] ...I will put this request of the senator to the vote. [[Voice from the room: Let's see if there's a quorum first.]] [[If there's no quorum, we can debate.]] No, no... Okay, okay, okay. [[Voice from the room: We can check the quorum.]] I'll vote in five minutes, which is... 1:40 p.m., seven minutes. [[But how about questions first?]] There'll be a vote, I'll put it to the vote at 1:40. [[Voice from the hall: But you have to have a quorum to...]] [[Senator Maria Panczyk-Under: But we may have questions for you...]] [[Voice from the room: No.]] [[Senator Maria Panczyk-Podniej: Can't we have any questions?]] [[Voice from the room: Break is, break is.]] Thank you. There's a break for now. [[Adjournment from 13 minutes 33 to 13 minutes 40]] I'm reopening the session. Before the recess, there was a request for an adjournment until the 19th of this month... to interrupt the examination of the point and to issue an adjournment until the next sitting, the next sitting, which you have submitted to Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. Senator Rulewski reporting. Yes? But if you'll excuse me, Mr. Senator, from the point of view...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u195	Mr Marshal, given the dignity, seriousness and importance of the Constitutional Tribunal for the work for Poland, and especially for the Senate, in these circumstances I consider it appropriate to withdraw my proposal. [[Voice from the room: Objection.]] [[Objection.]] Your objection, yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-06-senat-27-2.u196	There is therefore a request from Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. I'm declaring a recess to the 20th at this point and on this... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Marshal, I applied for a recess until the 19th, by 10:00, not by the 20th.]] There is a sitting of the Court in full on the 19th at 10 a.m., and it is therefore impossible to bring your President here. Therefore, I am announcing a break until October 20th. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 13 minutes 42]]
