ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-senat-28-3.u1	I'm reopening the session. Mr and Mrs Senators, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by a point: the Act amending the Budget Act for 2016 and considering it as item thirteen of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. Thank you very much. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the Act amending the Road Transport Act. The text of the Act is contained in print No 298 and the report of the Commission In print No 298 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Wiesław Dobkowski, to submit a report to the committee. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. Mr. Senators, we've already begun our deliberations. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-senat-28-3.u2	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present the opinion of the Infrastructure Committee on the Law amending the Road Transport Act. This law is a government project. The adoption of this law on the amendment of the Road Transport Act is linked to the need for the Polish State to fulfil its obligations arising from European Union legal acts. 6 legal acts have been issued on this issue: 3 European Parliament and Council Regulations of 2009, 1 Commission Decision of 2009 and 2 Commission Regulations of 2009 and 1 of 2010. The nature of the solutions contained in those acts is the creation and keeping of a national electronic register of road transport operators. According to art. Article 16 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of Regulation No 1071/2009, each Member State shall keep a national electronic register of road transport operators who have obtained authorisation from the competent authority designated by that State to pursue the occupation of road transport operator. The processing of data contained in the register shall be subject to scrutiny by a public authority designated for that purpose. The relevant data contained in the national electronic register shall be available to all competent authorities of the Member State concerned. At the same time, the Regulation provides that Member States shall take all necessary measures to ensure that national electronic registers are interconnected and accessible throughout the Community through the national contract points responsible for the exchange of information. The creation of a national electronic register of road transport undertakings is not possible on the basis of existing records, i.e. the Central Register of Information on Economic Activity and the National Court Register, i.e. the National Court Register, since they were created to collect other types of data than those to be included in the register. For in the register of the European Union... These regulations require more detailed data to be provided, i.e. for road carriers. In order for the company and legal form and address of establishment to be indicated there, the type of authorisation held for the occupation of road transport operator, the number of vehicles, the serial number of the Community licence and certified copies and persons managing and sanctioning road transport, as well as persons who have been declared unable to manage the transport operations of an economic operator. In view of the nature of these data which need to be transmitted and which are defined by Union law, as well as the rules for making them available, it is appropriate to create a new, separate register, which by so-called. the contact point will be linked to the registers of other Member States. The Act assumes that the register will be kept in the electronic system by the Chief Inspector of Road Transport. The detailed requirements for such an electronic system are laid down in Commission Regulation No 1213/2010. The Chief Inspector for Road Transport will be the controller of personal data collected in the register within the meaning of the provisions of the Personal Data Protection Act of 29 August 1997. There will also be some specific data in the register. These will be data from the following records: entrepreneurs who are authorised to pursue the occupation of road transport operator; serious infringements referred to in Article. Article 6 (6) (a) 1 (a) (i) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) b of the Union Regulation; persons who have been declared unable to manage the transport operations of the trader until the so-called "return' is restored. It's a good reputation. The law indicates the authorities required to transmit the information disclosed in the register. In addition, the transmission of data to the register is expected to take place via the electronic transmission box of the main road transport inspector and by means of electronic communication operated by the electronic system. This data will be transmitted to the registry via electronic forms appearing on the website of the Central Road Transport Inspectorate and via an electronic public administration service platform. The main road transport inspector has been authorised to specify the template for the electronic form through which the data will be transmitted to the register. Data collected in the register of economic operators authorised to pursue the occupation of road transport operator shall be publicly and publicly available, except for data relating to the date and place of birth and address of residence of the transport manager and the natural person. The provision of data in this area will take place in publicly available ICT networks. The data collected in the records of serious infringements and the records of persons who have been found unable to manage the transport operations of the trader shall be made available only to authorised authorities. The Act clarifies what offences under national law will be classified as serious offences within the meaning of the Regulation. The conviction of a member of the governing body of a legal person, the person managing the company, the natural person conducting the business, the transport manager or the natural person for any of these offences will justify the initiation of an administrative procedure to meet the requirement of good repute. In assessing the good repute, the competent authority will have to take into account both the number of infringements found compared to the number of drivers of the trader concerned and the implementation of the company's corrective procedures, as well as the social interest of the entrepreneur's continued business activity, which is determined in particular by the unemployment in the place where the trader is established, in the municipality or region. Following an administrative procedure, the Authority will issue a decision declaring the loss of good repute and a decision stating that good reputation remains intact. The Act sets out the consequences of repeated serious infringements. There will be criteria for assessing the frequency of multiple infringements, and the next paragraph will introduce the possibility of issuing a warning if 3 serious infringements and 1 very serious infringement are found. A further very serious breach following the issue of the warning will result in: firstly, a withdrawal of 20% for a period of 3 months extracts from a Community licence, where the trader has more than 10 such extracts, or, as the case may be, 1 extract where the trader has between 2 and 10 extracts; secondly, the suspension of the issue of additional extracts from the Community licence for a period of 6 months, which will apply to the above mentioned traders and the trader who uses only 1 extract. The finding of a third very serious infringement will be a mandatory condition for the initiation of administrative proceedings to meet the requirement of good repute. An entrepreneur who has been withdrawn from a Community licence will be required to return those extracts within 14 days. This obligation will be subject to a penalty of PLN 1 thousand. The Act we are proceeding is to enter into force 14 days after the date of publication, except for the provisions on the establishment and functioning of the National Electronic Register of Road Transport Entrepreneurs, which will enter into force on 31 December 2017, and Article. 7, which shall enter into force on the day following the day of the announcement. Mr. Marshal, High Senate, this bill was the opinion of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which had some comments. The government has therefore proposed amendments to take these comments into account and these are 6. In addition, the 1st amendment proposed a union of carriers. It is based on the fact that their representative is to be on this committee, which decides on the recognition of good repute. The government agreed to this and the committee accepted such an amendment. I 1 amendment follows the proposal of the Legislative Office. So that, in total, the committee accepted 8 amendments, except that, as I say, 6 of them are based on the opinion of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which also found the law to be compatible with the law of the European Union. Mr Marshal, High Izbo, on behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure, I propose that this law be adopted together with 8 amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-senat-28-3.u3	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. The bill was filed by the government. Hello, Minister Jerzy Szmit. The Minister for Infrastructure and Construction was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would the Minister like to speak? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Jerzy Szmit: Yes.]] Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-senat-28-3.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank the rapporteur for such a thorough and broad discussion of the bill. I'll add two more information. The first information is that on 31 December 2012 the deadline for implementing this law into Polish law, so it is almost 4 years of delay. And the second information: On 5 October this year, the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union was handed down, which stated that Poland had not implemented this law. I think this is a serious argument that the High House should take into account when voting. I will add that the amendments that have been tabled are accepted by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-senat-28-3.u5	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Minister, thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. Would any of you like to speak? I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the Law amending the Budget Act for 2016. The text of the Act is contained in print No 302. Following consideration by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development forwarded its opinion to the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, which produced a report on this subject. It is available in print No 302 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Tadeusz Romanczuk, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-senat-28-3.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, at 9 a.m., a meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances was held on the Law amending the Budget Law for 2016. After hearing the opinion of the Committee on Agriculture and after hearing the Minister representing the Minister of Finance and after a brief discussion, the Committee on Budget and Public Finance adopted the Law without amendment. The committee brings the Senate to its deliberations and asks... So I'm asking you to accept the bill without any amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-senat-28-3.u7	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Development and Finance has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. [[Voice from the hall: Minister running.]] One second, we have to wait for the Minister. [[Voice from the hall: Minister of Finance is on his way, he's close.]] [[Voice from the hall: Minister, Mrs Majszczyk.]] Point 12 went faster than we expected. That's the excuse of the Minister. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 minutes 45 to 10 minutes 51]] High Izbo, I'm extending the recess by three minutes. [[Voice from the room: May extend more...]] If I announce a longer one and the Minister comes, we'll have to wait. [[Adjournment from 10 minutes 51 to 10 minutes 53]] I'm reopening the session. This 3-minute extension was announced, I see, with sense. Hello, Minister Hanna Majszczyk. Minister, we are at such a stage that we have begun point thirteen: the amendment of the budget law. We're past the committee's report. I will read this passage again, which has already been read in order to introduce the Minister. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Development and Finance has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Welcome back, Minister. Does the Minister, as a representative of the Government, wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the Government? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Hanna Majszczyk: Yes.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-senat-28-3.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I'm sorry I'm late, but we got word too late that the point is okay... [[No, no, it was the previous point that ran very quickly, unexpectedly quickly, so to speak.]] Thank you very much. With regard to the draft amendment to the 2016 Budget Act... I'm sure the rapporteurs of both committees have already presented this to the High House, so I would not like to repeat it. This novel applies only to European measures. The change will not affect the deficit of the public finance sector, because we are talking about European measures which are not counted against this deficit. This novel can only be translated into debt levels Up to a maximum of 9 billion PLN. I say'maybe', because it will, of course, depend on what financial operations we will make this year. With different good deals, it may even be so that we do not need any additional debt at all. Of course, in the justification for this project we present this maximum debt, because it may in theory be needed, but the 2016 draft budget and the 2016 novel relate to the plan and not to the final implementation, so today it is difficult to say whether we will need this debt at all. And maybe I'll give you another piece of information: the income we're reducing this year. The result is this deficit of European funds, which we are increasing by PLN 8.9 billion, will enter the budget at the beginning of next year. That is our current state of affairs in terms of the flow of this stream of resources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-senat-28-3.u9	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-senat-28-3.u10	Thank you very much. Minister, I have this question: can farmers be sure that they will receive this money? I'd like the Minister to explain this from the Senate stand. Thank you. [[Voices from the hall: They can, they can.]] [[Voice from the room: They can't.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-senat-28-3.u11	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-senat-28-3.u12	Already yesterday, when a debate was held in the Sejm on this 2016 budget novel, the Minister of Agriculture and the President of the Agency explained whether they were ready for this payment. In fact, the start-up action has already started, as advance payments can be made from 17 October. Some of these funds, even without this novel, were planned in the budget and in the part in which it could legally be mobilised, these operations are already being carried out. Such questions were also asked to the Minister for Agriculture during the debate in the Sejm. It was also asked if the agency was ready to carry out these payments, and it was absolutely confirmed that the agency was ready, prepared. Everyone who's entitled gets up to 70%. advances on direct payments this year.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-senat-28-3.u13	Thank you very much. Senator Sheriff, I'd like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-senat-28-3.u14	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Well, my question was going to be similar: is the agency technically prepared to pay these funds to farmers in such a short time? Yeah, there were a lot of problems with that last year. Nevertheless, the answer has already been answered. I realized that the agency was ready to accomplish this task. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-senat-28-3.u15	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-senat-28-3.u16	Well, that's what we got from the agency. I can only do it again.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-senat-28-3.u17	I'm asking for further questions. I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Hanna Majszczyk: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. [[Voice from the room: Half an hour off.]] I'm asking for information from the club bosses how long they need a break. [[Voice from the room: 5 minutes.]] [[Voice from the room: until 12:15.]] Till 12:15 p.m. ? I declare... [[We need a motion to file.]] Please? Can we make an appointment at 12:00 to extend the recess by 15 minutes? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] Yes? If we don't make it. Can we go out like this? [[Yes.]] We're adjourned until 12:00. [[Adjournment from 10 minutes 59 to 12 minutes 00]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-senat-28-3.u18	I'm extending the recess until 12:15. [[Adjournment from 12 minutes 00 to 12 minutes 17]] I'm reopening the session. Please take your seats. We are returning to the first item on the agenda: the Extra-court Consumer Dispute Resolution Act. The meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, which responded to the proposals presented during the debate, prepared a joint report on the subject. It is in print No 282 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Adam Gawada, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-senat-28-3.u19	Mr. Marshal! Izbo Village! The joint committees of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation request that no amendments be made and that the law be adopted without amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-senat-28-3.u20	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We are voting on Senator Marek Martynowski's motion, supported by committees, for the adoption of a law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 58 senators voted in favour, 27 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 1]] In view of the result of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Out-of-court Consumer Dispute Resolution Act. We return to the second agenda: the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on cooperation in the field of disaster prevention, natural disasters, other serious accidents and the removal of their consequences, signed in Białystok on 23 April 2015. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and the Committee on Local Territorial Government and State Administration have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of the law without amendment of Senate print No 283 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 85 senators voted in favour, no one voted against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 2]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on cooperation in the field of disaster prevention, natural disasters and other serious accidents and the removal of their consequences, signed in Białystok on 23 April 2015. We are returning to the third item on the agenda: the Law on the ratification of the 2014 Amendment to the Maritime Labour Convention, adopted on 23 February 2006 in Geneva, approved in Geneva on 11 June 2014 by the General Conference of the International Labour Organisation. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Infrastructure have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without any amendments. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 85 senators voted in favour, no one voted against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 3]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on the ratification of the 2014 Amendment to the Maritime Labour Convention, adopted on 23 February 2006 in Geneva, approved on 11 June 2014 in Geneva by the General Conference of the International Labour Organisation. We return to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: second reading of the draft opinion on non-compliance with the principle of subsidiarity of the draft regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the establishment of criteria and mechanisms for determining the Member State responsible for examining an application for international protection lodged in one of the Member States by a third-country national or a stateless person. I would remind you that the committee's report on the draft opinion was presented on the first day of the meeting and that a discussion was held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committees request the Senate to adopt the draft opinion in print No 289 S. We are voting on the draft opinion. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 57 senators voted in favour, 27 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 4]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted an opinion on non-compliance with the principle of subsidiarity of the draft Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the establishment of criteria and mechanisms for determining the Member State responsible for examining an application for international protection lodged in one of the Member States by a third-country national or a stateless person. We return to the examination of item 5 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Prohibition of the Promotion of Communism or other totalitarian system by the names of buildings, objects and public utilities. Following the second reading of the bill, the Senate sent the draft to the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and obliged these committees to present an additional report at the present Senate meeting. It is in print No 261 X. We proceed to the third reading. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Jerzy Czerwinski, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-senat-28-3.u21	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 11 amendments were tabled, of which three should be voted by block. That means there's three blocks after two fixes. The Commission has given a positive opinion on 2 of amendment 3 and amendment 10 and the rest of the amendment is proposed to reject.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-senat-28-3.u22	Thank you. I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the joint committee, Senator Leszek Piechota, to present proposals supported by a minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-senat-28-3.u23	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of the Senators! I recommend supporting the amendment explicitly referring to the article. 13 Constitution, which states that the existence of parties promoting totalitarian systems, Nazism, Fascism and Communism in their programmes is prohibited And organizations that support racial and ethnic hatred. I would like to signal that the Civic Platform Club clearly determines the support of the whole from the adoption of this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-senat-28-3.u24	Thank you. I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the joint committees, Senator Piotr Ziientarski, to present proposals supported by a minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-senat-28-3.u25	It is about the three amendments that we have tabled together with Senator Shark. They concern a clear exemption not only for educational purposes, but also for museum purposes, as well as for business activities, it goes on, for example. restaurants, as was mentioned during the discussion. In any case, if the monument is to remain for educational purposes, it should also bear a plaque indicating why and under what circumstances it was created. Since the monument stays, it is for educational purposes that such a plaque should be displayed to strengthen the educational goal. That's a total of three corrections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-senat-28-3.u26	Thank you very much. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? Senator Jan Żaryn, Senator Andrzej Biesiołek, Senator Leszek Piechota, Senator Jerzy Czerwiński, Senator Grażyna Sztark and Senator Piotr Zientarski submitted legislative proposals during the second reading. Senator Bear. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-senat-28-3.u27	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I would like to draw your attention. Because this was widely discussed at the committee meeting, and not all senators are members of those committees that dealt with this law for amendments Nos 2 and 9. These are the amendments that Senator Piechota and I have tabled, and they relate to a change in the name of the bill. Well, in this name, which is in print, we are talking about communism and other totalitarian systems, while the Constitution of the Republic of Poland lists these totalitarian systems, that is fascism and Nazism. I do not know why we want to hide fascism and Nazism under the cloak of other totalitarian systems, while communism is exchanged by name. It's like, speaking in the youth language, as if we were eyeballing, suggesting that maybe those totalitarian systems aren't as bad as communism. I don't know. I believe that the adoption of this amendment is extremely important because it will lead to compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland and will put this law in order, it will make this law really appropriate. And I don't understand here... I don't think there's a political dispute about this, because I think we all agree that these totalitarian, Nazi and fascism systems were no different from communism. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-senat-28-3.u28	Senator Żaryn. You're welcome. And I would like to point out that this is not yet a point covering questions. [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-senat-28-3.u29	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I just want to remind you of the meaning of my amendments. The first concern was that automatically from the register of monuments This is an amendment to the Act on Monuments and Protection of Those Monuments, which were qualified under this Act, were deleted. as clearly demolishable. In this way, we would speed up a procedure that still has to exist. The second amendment concerned narrowing down, excluding only wartime graveyards from all cemeteries, of course it is all graves, and there is no doubt about that. That is the point of my amendments, which, of course, as the author, I support. [[Which are the amendments?]] [[No. 3...]] Nos 1 and 8 and 4.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-senat-28-3.u30	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur and the applicants in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of your senators like to make such an inquiry? You're welcome. [[Do you mind if I, uh...]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-senat-28-3.u31	I have a question for the applicant of the amendment, in which there is a record of the militarisms of Prussian, Russian and German. I'd like to know... [[Voice from the room: There is a different...]] What's it like out there? [[Lithuanian.]] Yeah, Lithuanian. [[And Ukrainian.]] Do obelisk, which is located in the Silesian Voivodeship, so-called. The obelisk of the three emperors, in the light of these records will have to be eliminated or not? Thank you very much. [[Oh, Jesus, man, don't do the circus.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-senat-28-3.u32	You're welcome. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Yeah, because we're talking militarism here, Russian and Prussian. So I'd just like to have a clear answer from...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-senat-28-3.u33	All I can say here is that in the Opole Voivodeship there are at the moment 40 commemorations that symbolize the Prussian militarism. As for the concrete shape of commemoration and their symbolisms, this will be spoken by the Institute of National Remembrance. Let us remember that the opinion of the Institute of National Remembrance is a necessary condition for recognizing the commemoration as incompatible with the law. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Stop it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-senat-28-3.u34	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-senat-28-3.u35	I have a question for Senator Czerwinski about Amendment 3. Since there are enumeratives of these militarisms, totalitarianisms, and, of course, they are not all mentioned, then how will we treat e.g. Frankism? He's not mentioned there. Is it possible to worship General Franco, then, or is it not? [[Voice from the room: Franco can't.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-senat-28-3.u36	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, I would like to point out that the catalog that is indicated in Amendment 3 is an open catalog, not a closed catalog. Therefore, everything that is in the descriptive sphere... and which will be classified by the Institute of National Remembrance as violating the bill will fall under the designation of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-senat-28-3.u37	Thank you. Senator Bear.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-senat-28-3.u38	I have another question for Senator Czerwinski. If this is an open directory, there is always a danger that various elements can be attached to this directory. And it's gonna depend on who's gonna be the head of the IPN and who's gonna be in charge. Such a person will freely recognize... I appeal to the senators not to accept this amendment because it will be harmful. She's gonna be really harmful when it comes to the future. Thank you. [[All right, let's vote.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-senat-28-3.u39	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo... [[That's not a question.]] ...it was actually an appeal, not a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-senat-28-3.u40	Mr. Senator Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-senat-28-3.u41	Senator, don't sit down yet because... did I get what you said? Namely, that the legislator, or our House, transfers his powers to another public institution in this respect? Because if the so-called open clause, such a general clause, is introduced, it will be possible to add everything in a discretionary manner. Did I understand correctly that you said that the Institute of National Remembrance, no matter who led it, would have the right to introduce or remove from it other types of authoritarianism and other types of militarism that we did not include there?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-senat-28-3.u42	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, I don't know how to answer that, Senator, to be polite and honest. You misunderstood. And I'm sure the logic you're presenting here is incorrect. Because if we do not accept this amendment, the catalogue will be completely open and then indeed, according to your reasoning, it will be possible to include any, so to speak in quotes, -isms. If we accept this amendment, the catalogue will be partially closed and, in my opinion, it will be very difficult to prove that any other -ism... that such names are incompatible with the law. Although it will be possible. The High Chamber does not transfer any IPN competences here, because these competences were already included in the mother's law. I will remind you that we are talking about an amendment to the law in which we gave IPN the opportunity to give a binding opinion as to whether a given street, object or building name does not violate the law. Well, then... Well, so it is already in the Polish country that there are legislative bodies and implementing bodies. IPN plays an executive role here. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-senat-28-3.u43	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-senat-28-3.u44	Senator rapporteur, I would like you to enlighten me in my ignorance, because so far it seemed to me that totalitarianism is a way of organizing the state; also militarism is how the state operates. Tell us what the conditions of the totalitarian state were observed in Lithuania and Ukraine. [[Is that a question?]] [[It's written down.]] It's written down. And that was one question. The second question concerns Senator Zarin's amendment about, as I understand it, removing immediately from the law elements, suppose, buildings, monuments, etc., entered in the register of monuments. Does this mean that the palace of culture will also be covered by this law? That the Palace of Culture will disappear? [[Voice from the room: Can it disappear?]] [[Voice from the room: Ask Sikorski.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-senat-28-3.u45	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll admit it's starting to surprise me, Mr. Marshal, because you should know the rules... I think these questions are actually addressed to Senator Zarin. I'm not the one who should answer them. As far as the first question is concerned, this was not the subject of the committee's deliberations. It is a pity that the people most interested in this committee meeting did not appear. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-senat-28-3.u46	Are there any more questions? [[If I had known that this kind of amendment would be tabled, I would certainly be strange, surprising and ahistorical. I would definitely come, Mr. Senator.]] Senator Żaryn. Later, Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-senat-28-3.u47	Mr. Marshal, my statement will only concern the question addressed to me. The Act on Monuments and Monuments Protection, which operates today, formulates principles on the basis of which a qualified object can be deleted from this register. As you can easily guess, the legislator could not foresee the bill that was being passed today, and therefore did not implement the exclusion in question. It's obvious, logic is simple here, there's nothing to explain. Therefore, my proposal is to immediately introduce into the Act on the protection of monuments, concerning the functioning of the register, such a provision in which it is recognised on the basis of the opinion of the IPN, according to which the monument is eligible for demolition due, say, to the carrying of inappropriate ideology and the practice of governing that it is to be removed from that register. This is, in my opinion, a corrective amendment. Its absence makes it the responsibility of the Minister of Culture and National Heritage today, who will have to deal with the IPN, because it is not included as a party to the Act... Well, it's gonna be about whose competence it is, because only the IPN was named by name as an opinion page. That's why I proposed this amendment. I find her rational. It is equally rational, of course, as I believe, to amend Senator Czerwiński, because what is stated in this record does not concern the organisation of the state, but concerns both those ideologies and those practices which can function in public space, commemorated in the form of a monument. In short, the monument of the shaulis in Płońsk is a phenomenon to which we should not allow the appearance in the Polish state, like the monument of Bandera or any other leader of any of the OUN-UPA formations. And as I understand it, this amendment applies. Therefore, it is as understandable and reasonable as possible, unless we consider that the Polish State should not be interfered, it should only leave this, for example. Local governments. Then, of course, this amendment is unfounded. However, from a substantive point of view, if we know Polish history, there is no shadow of doubt about what type of monuments it is.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-senat-28-3.u48	Thank you. Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-senat-28-3.u49	I followed what you asked Marshal Borusewicz. This matter was discussed in the Committee on Culture... [[But this isn't a discussion...]] I would like to remind you that not everyone can attend committee meetings and everyone has the right to ask a question. So let me repeat the question, maybe in a slightly different way: why And what Mr. Żaryn said doesn't cover this issue. The Lithuanian and Ukrainian nationalisms have been mentioned in such a special way? This might not be the case, and in our opinion, according to the law, monuments of the type that Professor Żaryn said could be removed, should not have been mentioned in the bill, because it looks as if it were some particular, unique nationalism, Lithuanian and Ukrainian, from the point of view of Poland. [[Is that a comment or a question? What's going on here?]] And I ask for the reply of Senator Czerwinski, who has tabled this amendment. And let me remind you that this wasn't in the bill before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-senat-28-3.u50	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-senat-28-3.u51	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Amendment 3, because we are talking about it, was discussed earlier at the first committee meeting. She was the content of the earlier text... she was supposed to be, but she didn't go through, she was the ratio of 7:7, so it's not completely new. This is the first issue, procedural. And when it comes to substance... There were mentioned these hostile ideologies, hostile to the Polish state, which had already tried to place their commemorations on the territory of the Polish state, so to speak. Ladies and gentlemen, we have met, particularly as regards issues related to the Volyn tragedy, the genocide in Volyn, with expressions of glorifyation of people who are responsible for this ideology, in the territory of the Polish state. I believe that the Polish state can afford such expressions of enemy glorification. to us ideologies from the territory of the Polish state simply remove. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-senat-28-3.u52	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-senat-28-3.u53	I have another question for Mr Czerwinski. [[Senator's voice.]] Senator, I'm so sorry. We worked in the last term, together we wrote the so-called. a decounisation law on public space. In this term of office, we have adopted this law. Now we are working on a law on objects that are also located in public spaces, but then we were talking about the names of squares, streets, etc., at the moment we are talking about objects. Why in this law should we go beyond the time range and beyond the scope of that law, which we considered both clubs to be legitimate? Despite the fact that some local governments had reservations on our decision, we felt that we were doing the right thing both in terms of the scope and in terms of the time frame. What makes us go much further than we did a few months ago and in our previous term of office? [[This is no time for discussion now, Mr. Marshal. We vote, not discuss.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-senat-28-3.u54	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will admit that I do not see in Amendment 3 going beyond the temporal scope of the mother's bill, because in the mother's bill, what the senator requested, there is no time limit specified. This is merely a clarification and an indication again, what or who, but rather what other totalitarian means are. You may object, but say it clearly, and do not try to prove that this amendment is something other than it literally is, as I read it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-senat-28-3.u55	Thank you. Senator Bear.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-senat-28-3.u56	I have a question for Senator Czerwinski, a short question, because it's been here twice, and you haven't answered it. [[Stop it! Then why ask?]] Who's gonna have the authority to extend that directory that you included in Amendment 3? In short: who will have such authority? [[...IPN speaks...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-senat-28-3.u57	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am surprised that you are trying to torpedo the amendment, which is partly in line with the amendment you have tabled. This is really incomprehensible to me. As far as the implementation of this law is concerned, two bodies are indicated... well, actually 3. The first are local government units. The other is the voivode who enters I'm talking about the novel, of course. When individuals fail to fulfil their obligations. And the third body, which is perhaps not so decisive as to express a binding opinion as to whether the commemoration violates the law or not, is the Institute of National Remembrance. It's a clear indication, which means... In short, making from a very extensive directory, i.e. a directory that says.other modes, totalitarian systems, partially closed catalog, causes that IPN will have at least the clues about which commemorations it is about. It's so paradoxical. And maybe not paradoxically. We're narrowing down not so much power as the IPN field. He will not be able to act in a very arbitrary manner, but will have to eat the provisions of the Act.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-senat-28-3.u58	Thank you. Are there any more questions? There isn't. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, the amendments will be voted in the order of the text. "Print No 261 X " followed by the adoption of the draft, "Print No 261 S', in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We shall proceed to the vote on the amendments tabled. Amendments 1 and 8 require that the monuments promoting the totalitarian system be removed from the register of monuments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 senators voted, 4 for, 73 against, 6 abstained. [[Voting No 5]] I state that the Senate has rejected the amendments. Amendments 2 and 9 clarify the catalogue of totalitarian systems and prohibit the promotion of organisations based on racial or national hatred. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 senators voted, 27 for, 54 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 6]] I state that the Senate has rejected the amendments. Amendment 3 introduces an example list of totalitarian systems. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 senators voted, 53 for, 27 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 7]] I state that the Senate has accepted the amendment. Amendment 4 limits one exception to the application of the law to war cemeteries. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 senators voted, 3 for, 78 against, 2 abstained. [[Voting No 8]] I state that the Senate has rejected the amendment. Amendment 5 allows the exhibition of monuments in the framework of museum activities. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted, 27 for, 55 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 9]] I state that the Senate has rejected the amendment. Amendment 6 allows the exhibition of monuments within the framework of economic activities. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 Senators voted, 27 in favour, 55 against, 1 Senator abstained. [[Voting No 10]] I state that the Senate has rejected the amendment. Amendments 7 and 11 require that information tablets be placed on monuments exhibited for purposes other than the promotion of the totalitarian system. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 Senators voted, 29 for, 53 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 11]] I state that the Senate has rejected the amendments. Amendment 10 deletes unnecessary words. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 82 senators voted in favour, 81 in favour, no one voted against, 1 senator abstained. [[Voting No 12]] I state that the Senate has accepted the amendment. We proceed to the vote on the adoption of the bill in its entirety with changes resulting from the amendments adopted and on the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. The committees propose that the Senate authorize Senator Robert Mamytkow to represent the Senate in further work on the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Senator Klich hasn't voted yet? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted in favour, 56 against, 26 abstentions. [[Voting No 13]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a bill amending the Act on the prohibition of promoting communism or another totalitarian system by the names of buildings, objects and public utility devices and adopted a resolution on the introduction of this bill to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Robert Mamytkow to represent the Senate in further work on this project. We are returning to the examination of item six of the agenda: the second reading of the call to the United Kingdom Parliament. Following the second reading of the draft appeal, the Senate sent the draft to the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and obliged these committees to present an additional report at the present Senate meeting. It is in print No 272 X. We proceed to the third reading. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Jan Rulewski, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-senat-28-3.u59	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will speak as rapporteur. Then I won't tell you what it means... Indeed, the 3 committees have again followed this call and have considered, in particular, this amendment, which takes into account all the suggestions made at first reading. However, according to the committee, and especially in the opinion of Senator Czerwiński As a result of the repeated vote, such a request to the High House should be rejected. Senator Czerwiński's proposal was voted first by 11 Members, 11 against and 2 abstained. The result was different in the following vote: this time 14 senators were opposed, 11 supported their opinion and 2 abstentions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-senat-28-3.u60	Thank you very much. I understand that the senator no longer wants to speak as an applicant. [[Oh, I didn't say that.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Does the senator want to speak as an applicant? [[Voices from the room: No, no.]] [[No, no, I'm gonna do the...]] Thank you very much, I understand. At present, senators may submit no more than one minute of a request to the rapporteur and the applicant in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of your senators like to make such an inquiry? Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-senat-28-3.u61	Rapporteur, what is the conclusion of the committee? What does the committee recommend? Because I didn't hear that.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-senat-28-3.u62	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! The conclusion is to reject the appeal, not to appeal to the United Kingdom Parliament.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-senat-28-3.u63	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? Mr. Senator Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-senat-28-3.u64	And why shouldn't we make this appeal?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-senat-28-3.u65	Allow me, Senator Klich, to speak honestly. [[Honestly.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Applause]] Because you have made such a request, Senator Czerwiński, known for his national views and pointed out by many as the Slayer of a united Europe. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] And the others voted for it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-senat-28-3.u66	Are there any more questions? Senator Gazweda.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-senat-28-3.u67	Mr Marshal, I ask the Senator of the rapporteur to answer questions in the committee's report and not to express his own opinions at the Senate meeting. [[I'm here on a formal matter, Mr. Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-senat-28-3.u68	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-senat-28-3.u69	I believe that the wording of the rapporteur's Senator goes beyond the decency adopted in this House, the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure are Yes, sir, I'm asking the marshal to call the senator into order.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-senat-28-3.u70	Are there any more questions? If not, we will proceed with the vote. [[Let's vote because it's late.]] [[But if you call the marshal...]] We'll proceed with the vote. [[The correction is.]] In the first place... [[Mr Marshal, as the author of the amendment, I would like to express my opinion.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-senat-28-3.u71	I think I'm still entitled to that right. I would like to express my regret on behalf of the senators of the applicants that the draft appeal has been Categoric opposition of the State of the Senators of the PiS "Rejected." I don't know of cases like this that the Senate is involved in immigration cases... Both in previous terms and in this Senate, he generally performed in such situations. It should be noted that the government and the Senate are legally empowered to protect the interests of Polonia or emigration. During the campaign, PiS promised Poles to get up from their knees and instead die for their language, they are persecuted for building a common Europe, they are victims of political and mental chase. [[Jasia, thank you so much.]] Killers and Persecuted, Mr. Senator known for his Christianity And it's not an insult... Killers don't repent, but they walk free. In this situation, the government's theatrical gestures and the Senate's silence cannot be tolerated. The issue is of great importance, High Izbo, not only because it concerns millions of Poles who are emigrated Not just in the UK, not in the West at all. But because as a result of Brexit... His results are being carried out on the street. Already, some ministers of the new government are concerned about restrictions on immigration, including especially the Polish ones, which are due to come into force when Britain leaves... after Brexit. Poles suffer in loneliness and silence. The Senate in this case cannot be indifferent. I appeal to the High House... In this case, it is worth bowing your knees and voting in favour of the appeal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-senat-28-3.u72	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. [[Mr. Marshal, but I'm here about the formal...]] First of all, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the draft appeal and then, if the proposal is rejected, on the amendments. "Print No 272 X' in the order of the project's provisions. Following the vote on the amendments tabled, we will proceed with the vote on the draft call in full with changes resulting from the amendments adopted. We are voting on the committee's motion to reject the draft appeal. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 81 senators voted, 49 were in favour, 29 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 14]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has rejected the draft appeal to the United Kingdom Parliament and has therefore concluded its proceedings on this matter. We return to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Act amending certain laws determining the conditions for carrying out innovative activities. The Committee on Science, Education and Sport, the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation have presented a draft resolution in which they propose amendments to the Act. A minority of committees have submitted proposals for amendments to Senator Print No 284 A. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Minority applications Nos 1 and 6 modify the catalogue of eligible costs, assuming that they include the employment costs of R &amp; D workers rather than those employed to carry out such activities. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 82 senators voted, 28 for, 53 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 15]] I state that the Senate has rejected minority proposals Nos 1 and 6. Minority requests Nos 2 and 7 modify the catalogue of eligible costs, assuming that it is at the expense of a qualified entity to acquire the results of scientific research carried out by a scientific body and not provided or performed under a contract by such a body. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 82 senators voted, 28 for, 54 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 16]] I state that the Senate has rejected minority proposals Nos 2 and 7. Minority applications Nos 3 and 8 complement the catalogue of eligible costs for the costs of purchasing tools directly related to the R &amp; D activities. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 81 senators voted, 26 for, 54 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 17]] I state that the Senate has rejected minority proposals 3 and 8. Minority requests Nos 4 and 9 provide for the possibility of deduction of eligible costs incurred by operators operating in special economic zones. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 82 senators voted, 27 for, 54 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 18]] I state that the Senate has rejected minority claims Nos 4 and 9. Minority proposals 5 and 10 introduce a uniform approach for all entrepreneurs, 50% , the limit of deductible eligible costs. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I'm asking you to apply... Senator Staron, Senator Spider... Please state the results of the vote. There were 80 senators voted, 27 for, 53 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 19]] I state that the Senate has rejected minority proposals 5 and 10. Amendment 1 introduces the correct numbering of the added point in order to avoid the introduction of two different and equally marked provisions. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 82 senators voted in favour, 82 votes in favour, no one voted against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 20]] I state that the Senate has accepted Amendment 1. Amendment 2 assumes that short-term lease contracts for scientific purposes are included in the catalogue of contracts concluded by state legal entities which do not require the approval of the State Treasury Minister. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 82 senators voted in favour, 82 votes in favour, no one voted against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 21]] I state that the Senate has accepted Amendment 2. Amendment 3 complements the transitional provision concerning the procedure for the use of researchers to identify proceedings under the Polish Academy of Sciences Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 82 senators voted in favour, 82 votes in favour, no one voted against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 22]] I state that the Senate has accepted Amendment 3. Amendment 4 harmonises the date of entry into force of the Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 82 senators voted, 27 for, 54 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 23]] I state that the Senate has rejected Amendment 4. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 82 senators voted in favour, 82 votes in favour, no one voted against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 24]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending certain laws specifying the conditions for carrying out the innovative activity. We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Offices and Tax Chambers and the Act on the Social Insurance System. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senate printing No 299 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 81 senators voted, 80 votes in favour, no votes against, one abstention. [[Voting No 25]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Offices and Tax Chambers and the Act on the Social Insurance System. We return to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the law amending the Road Transport Act. The Infrastructure Commission presented a draft resolution in which it proposed amendments to Senator Print No 298 A. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Amendment 1 aims to ensure that the application for authorisation of the occupation of road transport operator is accompanied by a certificate of non-criminality without being replaced by the applicant's own declaration. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 81 Senators voted, 81 votes in favour, no votes against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 26]] I state that the Senate has accepted Amendment 1. Amendment 2 indicates that the consequence of issuing a conviction for certain categories of offences against a person carrying out road transport activities is the adoption of an administrative decision declaring the loss of good repute. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 81 Senators voted, 81 votes in favour, no votes against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 27]] I state that the Senate has accepted Amendment 2. Amendment 3 requires the body assessing the reputation of the entrepreneur to consult a Polish organisation with a national range of road transport operators, which has been operating for at least 3 years, whose trader is a member. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Senator Rulewski hasn't voted yet. [[Thank you, Mr. Marshal.]] Please. Please state the results of the vote. 81 senators voted, 79 were in favour, 1 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 28]] I state that the Senate has accepted Amendment 3. Amendments 4 and 7 remove from the law a provision amending the delegation to the Minister responsible for transport to issue an implementing act, as matters referred to in the regulation are already included in the Union regulation. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Senators Klich, Oremski... Please state the results of the vote. 81 Senators voted, 81 votes in favour, no one voted against and no one abstained. [[Voting No 29]] I state that the Senate has accepted Amendments 4 and 7. Amendment 5 aligns the Road Transport Act with the terminology used in the Law of 5 September 2016 on trust services and electronic identification. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 81 Senators voted, 81 votes in favour, no votes against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 30]] I conclude that Amendment 5 has been accepted. Amendment 6 makes it clear that the provision with a reduced limitation period applies to all infringements set out in Commission Regulation 2016/403. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Senator Oremski hasn't voted yet. Please state the results of the vote. 81 Senators voted, 81 votes in favour, no one voted against and no one abstained. [[Voting No 31]] I state that Amendment 6 was accepted by the Senate. Amendment 8 shortens the date of entry into force of the provisions on the National Electronic Register of Road Transport Entrepreneurs by one month. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 81 Senators voted, 81 votes in favour, no votes against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 32]] I state that Amendment 8 was accepted by the Senate. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 81 Senators voted, 81 votes in favour, no votes against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 33]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law amending the Road Transport Act. We are returning to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the Law amending the Budget Act for 2016. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senate printing No 302 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 78 senators voted in favour, 77 in favour, no one voted against, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 34]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Budget Act for 2016. In view of the resolutions taken, I ask the senators of the rapporteurs to represent the Senate in the course of the examination of the Senate resolutions by the Sejm committees. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please! I would like to inform you that the agenda for the 21st Senate meeting has been exhausted. The next Senate meeting will be held on 3 and 4 November 2016. The order of this meeting was sent to you by e-mail. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's announcement would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. Would any of your senators like to speak? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please! Senator Bogdan Klich. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-senat-28-3.u73	High Izbo! On behalf of himself and Senators Kazimierz Kleina, Piotr Ziientarski, Sławomir Rybicki, Jarosław Duda, Wiesław Kilian, Leszek Czarnobaj, Robert Dowhan, Marian Poślednik, Andrzej Kobiak, Piotr Flork, Jerzy Wcisła, Maciej Grubski, Mieczysław Augustyn, Piotr Wach, Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka, Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka, Leszek Piechota, Jan Rulewski, Andrzej Misiołek, Senator Barbara Zdrojewska, Senator Grażyna Anna Sztark, Ryszard Bonisławski, Aleksandra Pociej, Przemysław Termiński and Jerzy Fedorowicz, I would like to make a statement addressed to Marshal Stanisław Karczewski on the following content. Dear Marshal, Following Mr Marshal's statement of 18 October 2016 presented in the press briefing, we hereby make this statement. Mr. Marshal said in his speech: "Instantly after this decision was issued by Marshal Borusewicz, I said and I decided that Mr. Marshal would not be taking part in the proceedings, because the conduct of the deliberations is a kind of threat to the functioning of the Senate. Therefore, Mr. Marshal Borusewicz will not be holding the Senate's deliberations for now. We object categorically to such conduct which violates the fundamental principles of parliamentary work. So far, it has not been possible for any marshal to apply a penalty to a vice-marshal who is not in the Senate's Rules of Procedure, thus depriving the Vice-Marshal of the authority to conduct the House's deliberations. Mr. Marshal's political will cannot be beyond the Senate's Rules of Procedure, which you should guard. We believe that by doing so, you have also violated the rights of the opposition, whose representative should have the same powers as other Vice-Marshals. Meanwhile, your marshal's actions undermine this principle, significantly restricting the role of opposition in the Senate. We expect you to state the legal basis of your decision or withdraw from it and make it public. Warsaw, 20 October 2016 Thank you very much. [[Mr. Senator, has my name been read?]] It's still there. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-senat-28-3.u74	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Tight.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-senat-28-3.u75	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The statement is addressed to the Minister of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, Mr Mark G grubarczyk. Dear Minister, On 12 October, during your stay in Elbląg, you presented information on the initiation of a procedure aimed at drawing up a final decision for the construction of the channel by measuring. Unfortunately, I was not invited to the meeting, although I am a founding member of the consortium which was set up for the implementation of this investment, at the time when you were Minister of Economy, in 2007. At that time, my membership of the Civic Platform was not an obstacle to cooperation for this important undertaking. The president of the city of Elbląg was not invited to the meeting, although Elbląg will be the main beneficiary that investment. This indicates that the criterion of inviting guests was deeply unsubstantiated. I hope these weren't your decisions, because I want to keep the respect I've had so far for you. Because of my absence from the meeting, I must rely on media information and incomplete information, because journalists had no right to ask questions during this meeting. Nevertheless, as a supporter of the construction of the channel, I welcome the fact that the next stage of action is being taken, in line with the estimates of the Civil Platform and the PSL government. However, I do have a few concerns. During the meeting, you stated that you had learned from a lower level of knowledge that Russia would protest this investment for environmental reasons, warning you to take care of the views of environmentalists. Minister, this is very dangerous and surprising information. Surprisingly, although I have been dealing with the channel and contacts with Russian shipping environments for years, I have never met the negative emotions on the part of Russia about this subject, but the Russians have often expressed their satisfaction that they will be able to make full use of their ships with greater capacity and immersion. In addition, studies have eliminated the cross-border impact that would give Russia the right to intervene. This information is also dangerous, because it simply accuses another country of interfering in Poland's internal affairs, and it is by means of provocation using ecological environments. So if the Minister has this information and he thinks he can give it to the public, it should be said This is to the end and to specify the source, the authorities, as well as the environmentalists who are ordered by a foreign country to interfere with the construction of the channel. Such an accusation without evidence is certainly another step, after the closure of the local border traffic, which spoils our relationship with Russia, especially in border areas, which will pay the highest price for this. In Warmia and Mazury, the symptoms go further and concern whether this will not threaten the implementation of the programme of Russia, worth EUR 62 million and whether it will not close for us the opportunity to participate in the service of tourists who want to come to Kaliningrad for the 2018 World Championship. These are the effects of easily cast words, Minister. The choice of channel location options analysed is also surprising. Why was Sands chosen and Przebrano rejected? The option of rebuilding the Skarpava River was also rejected. I actually agree with that, but perhaps it would be useful to revisit this option as an alternative to the construction of the channel. So as not to give arguments to the opponents to build the channel by measuring. Finally, I would like to express my concern about the constant signals about actions that build a vague, non-transparent aura around the construction of the channel by measure. We have already been faced with a request to the prosecutor to investigate earlier actions, signals of incomplete cooperation with the European Commission, with a speciality introduced for incomprehensible reasons, and we are currently dealing with the thesis on the possibility of Russian provocation. I feel like the PiS environment is generating problems and acting like an opposition to its own project. This is beginning to raise suspicion as to whether there is a genuine will to implement this investment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-senat-28-3.u76	Thank you very much. Senator Szymanski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-senat-28-3.u77	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I set here, in front of me, the MAX award, which I had the honour of accepting as a representative of the Senate Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy in Dad's forum. Net, an international forum which took place on 1 October this year in Ożarów Mazowiecki and attended about 800 people from various countries, including overseas, from the United States and Canada, but mainly from Poland, Ukraine and Russia. During, or at the end of this forum, the MAX Award was awarded to the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, for the fact that during the last four terms of office, the committee gave evidence of its interest in responsible paternity and promotion. I would also like to read what was adopted at the end of the forum. It's a declaration that I think is very valuable. It reads as follows: "I am a grown man who has reason and the ability to decide his fate. I'm proud of my background, I respect my parents, the culture and the nation I grew up in. I have a unique personality and unique abilities. I see the world in my own unique way. Life is the greatest gift and task for me. And then there was something in my life that changed my identity forever. I have contributed to the fact that on earth there is someone who, like me, has a unique personality and talent, sees the world in a unique way. I became a father. Ever since I became him, I haven't been able to describe myself differently. Tonight, to my friends. The men gathered at the 8th International Fathers' Forum Dad.net, I declare full responsibility for my fatherhood. I regard them as my calling and my mission. I believe that's why I came into the world to give life to my children and to give them everything that's best in me. I therefore declare: maintain a high level of personal involvement in matters arising from my fatherhood; learn about the characteristics of each child and what to expect from them according to age; be consistent with my children in terms of vocabulary, habits and behaviour; control crises in a constructive manner and safeguard the financial needs of my home; work hard and watch over the reviving of strong marital ties with my wife; actively listen to my children and allow them to express their thoughts, emotions and fears; engage directly in providing conditions for the spiritual development of children. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-senat-28-3.u78	Thank you very much. Senator Swede. Can I take a picture? [[Yes, sir. I think we can leave the MAX award here.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-senat-28-3.u79	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to address the statement to the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction Andrzej Adamczyk. Dear Minister, Due to numerous interventions by the inhabitants of the Kłodzkie, Ząbkowicki and the tenants concerning the need to rebuild the national road No. 8, as well as many accidents on this road during the recent period, which cause that the ungrateful statistics of injured persons and also of the victims are constantly increasing, please provide information on the Ministry's plans for investment and overall improvement of security on the national road No. 8 in Kudowa-Zdrój section Kłodzko Ząbkowice Śląskie. Łagiewniki do Wrocław. And a second statement, which I would also like to address to the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction Andrzej Adamczyk. Dear Minister, Due to the intervention of the inhabitants of Kłodzka from Zajęcza Street and Leszczyna concerning the need to rebuild and change traffic organisation in the area of the crossing of Zaęcza Street with the national road No 8 after my intervention in the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways in Wrocław, a local vision was carried out and temporary solutions were introduced in the form of a temporary limitation of speed and temporary pedestrian crossing. These temporary solutions were introduced during construction at a short distance bypass of the city of Kłodzka. There were accidents at that intersection just before they were introduced, including a fatal accident. I would like to ask you to consider securing measures for the reconstruction of the intersection and introducing permanent communication solutions to ensure safety at the intersection of Zajęcza Street in Kłodzko and the national road No. 8. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-21-senat-28-3.u80	Thank you very much. I ask Senator Secretary to read the messages. Oh, there's no messages. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 20th Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The eighth sitting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of the IXth term of office is closed. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[Meeting adjourned at 13 minutes 25]]
