ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u1	Resume session. Please take your seats. I would like to call on Mr Kinga Gajewska, Mr Marcin Duszek, Mr Krzysztof Kubow and Mr Arkadiusz Carrot. The first part of the session will be Mr Kinga Gajewska and Mr Arkadiusz Marchewka. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Marcin Duszek and Arkadiusz Carrot. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u2	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 11, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 11.30, - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 12, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 12, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12.30, - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 13, - Infrastructure - hour 13, - Culture and Media - hour 13, - Education, Science and Youth together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - at 13.30, - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 14, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 14, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 3.30 p.m., - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 16, - National and Ethnic Minorities - hour. 17, - National Defense at 5 p.m. 17, - Extraordinary for changes in codification - hour. 18. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: Patients' rights - hour 12, - Parliamentary Group for: creation of the University of Częstochowa - h. 12, - Parliamentary Group for: Solutions to Drug Addiction Problems - hour 14, - Parliamentary Group for: Organisation for Health Protection - h.m. 14, - Parliamentary Group for: Organization of World Youth Days Kraków 2016 - h.m. 17, - Parliamentary Animal Friends Team - h.m. 17, - Parliamentary Team of Members and Sympathists of the Light-Life Movement, Catholic Action and the Association of Catholic Families - hour. 5:15 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u3	Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. The first question will be asked by MEPs Robert Telus, Zbigniew Dolata and Piotr Polak, the Law and Justice Club, on the taking and implementation of selected decisions on the disposal of property by the Agricultural Property Agency in Warsaw from 2010 to 2015 as regards the acquisition of proceeds from the organization of Arabian Horse Days in Janów Podlaski by a private entity to the detriment of companies of the State Treasury engaged in breeding Arabian horses supervised by ANR. The question is addressed to the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development. They will be answered by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Zbigniew Babalski. I ask Robert Telus to ask you a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u4	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The audit, which was recently presented by Minister Jurgiel at his conference together with the President of the Agricultural Property Agency, showed a very disturbing information that the President of one of the companies involved in breeding Arabian horses in Janów Podlaski ordered annually from 2010 to 2015 the organization of Arabian Horse Day to one company, a private company. He did so, as is apparent from this information, without maintaining any rules concerning tenders or the collection of tenders. The amount that scrolled in this information, concerning the years in which this company organized it, is the amount of PLN 10 million. Our question is: Minister, is it moral for a company of the Treasury that oversees such an important company, with such an important brand worldwide, to commission such tasks without tenders, without maintaining the normal rules that apply to other companies of the Treasury, where is our public money? What was the reason that such a party, for so much money, was commissioned by this company? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Was that one of the reasons for the cancellation of the president of this company? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u5	I would like to ask Mr Piotr Polak's question. Please, Mr... [[It's an extra...]] [[Additional, it's extra, your marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u6	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Honourable Members! In particular, I would like to address the Members who are asking this question. It's not for me to judge whether it's moral or not as a civil servant. It seems to me - let's say - that after this information it will be possible to conclude for itself how it should be assessed. But given the rather high interest in this subject for some time, this answer will be a little broader, Members, than only in terms of the time period 2010-2015. The state studs of Janów Podlaski, Michałów and Białka in 2001 selected Polturf, which was then acting as a civil company, to organize the biggest horse event, Arabian Horse Days, and Pride of Poland auctions. The company was selected on the basis of a tender procedure. I remind you, it was 2001. Until 2005, Polturf organized the event together with another limited liability company. Since 2006, Polturf has been the sole partner of the studs in organizing the event, which has the status of a single-member business activity. Since 2001, the tender for the organisation of days and auctions has not been concluded, and the contract has been annexed without documented attempts of market discernment among other companies involved in the organisation of large events. I remind you that 15 years have passed since the company was selected for the August event in Janów Podlaski. The management board of companies has an obligation to act primarily in accordance with the interests of the companies. This means among others. ensuring the interests of those companies in the content of contracts concluded which constitute declarations of intent and entail certain obligations and obligations. The agreement concluded between Polturf and the studs was not only detrimental to the companies for the amount of the commission, sir. Let me remind you that, according to the letter from the head of the Central Anti-corruption Office to the minister of the special services coordinator, this commission increased from 10 to 12% in 2009. In addition, the agreement states that the minimum guaranteed amount of Polturf's remuneration cannot be less than 550 000. net zloty - this is right for the entrance, for the good morning. This record, it's true, it's only disappeared in recent years. There are no documents that would explain the increase in commission to the auction company. However, there was no doubt that both parties had to agree to the increase of the commission, i.e. on the one hand, the studs and Polturf on the other. Next line. The commissions were calculated on the net value sold at horse events. And here I want to use an example of the letter that he sent to the Minister - a member of the Council of Ministers of the Special Services coordinator, the head of the Central Anti-corruption Office. Quote: As the President of Leszek Świętochowski, during the Arabian Horse Day in 2015, said during the explanation on 20 August 2015, the total proceeds from the sale of horses amounted to 4600 thousand. Euros. This means that Polturf will receive a commission of at least 512 thousand. EUR, or around 2147 000. After the course then. With the increasing popularity of the event, the amount obtained from the sale of horses grew. Thus, the revenues of the organizer, Polturf, increased. The question is whether, in this situation, the stud boards should not rather seek to reduce this commission rather than raise it, as I mentioned in 2009. In the agreement for the event Polturf guaranteed itself, in accordance with the annex to this agreement, additional exclusive influence, among others. with contributions from sponsors, contributions from advertisers, contributions from advertising, promotional and commercial stands, ticket sales, buy-ins authorising the issue of horses at auction, parking fees, catering stands, sale of auction catalogues and other materials related to the auction. Another case that concerns this intermediary company. In fact, Polturf carried out commercial activities in the area belonging to the horse stud in Janów Podlaski, i.e. owned by the State Treasury. This resulted in high revenues regardless of the revenue from the commission for the horses sold. Undoubtedly, this reduced the revenue of the state studs, which only received money for the horses sold after deduction of the organizer's commission. The Stud Boards could guarantee themselves at least part of Polturf's commercial remuneration. Not only did they not do it, but also the management of the Janów Podlaski stud made available free of charge the area in which Polturf carried out commercial activities. It was only in 2014 that the Janów Podlaski horse stud charged Polturf with 15 thousand. net zł [[♪ The bell ♪]] for the use of the stud's premises. I'll remind you, it's all with a multi-million-dollar turnover at the party. Marshal, if you'll excuse me a moment, I'll be done in a moment. [[Voice from the room: Allow me, allow me.]] He's threatening...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u7	Minister... Secretary of State, Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Zbigniew Babalski: I'm almost done. There's gonna be an extra question, so why don't you finish your statement for this extra question and finish it for three minutes, okay? Secretary of State, Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Zbigniew Babalski: Okay, here you go. Thank you very much. I will ask Mr Piotr Pole from the Law and Justice Club to ask for an additional question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u8	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As we have heard in the information provided by the Minister, and resulting from the previous audit, there is information, there are concrete amounts which - it can be said, and so it is included - are detrimental to those companies that we are talking about here today, tangible financial damage. In this connection, I would like to ask the Minister: Has the Agricultural Property Agency, which supervises these companies, in connection with this information, already taken some steps with these statements contained in the audit, any action to remedy these damages or to take responsibility for those who have caused these damages? Thank you. [[It's not a pity, it's a lack of income.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u9	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u10	Yes, she has, but before I tell you what, I want to say, as a result of which these steps have been taken. Thus, as a result of the following factors: the loss of the stud resulting from cooperation with Polturf concerned the lack of competitiveness in the selection of the auction organizer through the constancy of the agreement with the company, without seeking to find other partners on the market, and secondly, the lack of care to secure more favourable conditions for cooperation with Polturf, which appeared, among others. in accordance with the increase in commissions and in accordance with Polturf's exclusive influence on other revenues during the event, as well as the inclusion in the agreement with Polturf in the flow path - note - financial, which prolonged the time between the sale of the horse and the payment to the stud account. I would remind you that the money first affected the company's account, only after some time it affected the stud's account, after a reduction of 12%. The financial results of both studs, however positive, could be better by millions of zlotys, if their boards better cared for the interests of state horse breeding companies in cooperation with Polturf and wider in choosing and selecting the company for the organisation of the most important horse events in Poland. The President of the Agricultural Property Agency, taking into account documents that I briefly discussed and presented, and in the light of the findings that were adopted, made a notification to the prosecution about the possibility of committing a crime in relation to the board of Janów Podlaski Stud. That's the conclusion of the answer to your question. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u11	Thank you very much. And I will ask Mr Mark Wójcik from the Civic Platform Club to ask the question. The question will be on the issue of implementing acts pursuant to Article. Article 6 (6) (a) 3 metropolitan union laws. It is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers, under the authority of the President of the Council of Ministers, the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, Mr Sebastian Chwałek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u12	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Act of 9 October 2015 on metropolitan unions entered into force on 1 January 2016. Art. Article 6 (6) (a) 3 of the Act obliges the Council of Ministers to issue a regulation which will specify the procedure and documents to be attached to the application for the establishment of a metropolitan union. Minister, 24 cities from the Upper Silesian agglomeration have already declared their willingness to form a metropolitan union by city council resolutions. Representatives of these cities have asked both Prime Minister Szydło and Minister Błaszczak to issue implementing acts to act urgently in order to enable the creation of metropolitan unions as soon as possible. Therefore, Minister, I would like to ask: At what stage are work on the regulations provided for in the metropolitan union law?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u13	You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u14	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Speaker! First of all, it should be pointed out that the metropolitan union law contains delegations for a number of implementing acts, in fact, three implementing acts. Firstly, regulations setting the boundaries of individual metropolitan areas for the creation of metropolitan unions by identifying municipalities that are part of metropolitan areas, i.e. the so-called metropolitan areas. a delimitation regulation, followed by a regulation setting out the procedure for the submission of an application by a municipality council within the limits of metropolitan areas and the scope of the documents to be attached to the application, as you mentioned, and a third regulation which is already finalising, creating metropolitan unions in the various metropolitan areas, at the same time establishing their names. In this context, I must point out that the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administration has drawn up a draft regulation of the Council of Ministers on the procedure for submitting proposals for the creation of metropolitan unions and the documents required in these matters, as authorised by the mandate, as mentioned by the Member, in Article. Article 6 (6) (a) 3 metropolitan union laws. However, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to clarify that, in order for this regulation to be applicable, it is still necessary to issue this earlier delimitation regulation, which sets out precisely the areas that will potentially form part of the metropolis, which is, as I have already mentioned, the so-called. a delimitation regulation. The areas of municipalities and cities which will be able to request that they be covered by this area should be identified in the first place. It is worth noting that the Minister for Development, with whom we cooperate on the issue of that regulation, is unfortunately also a key role in the area delimitation. I would also like to inform you that, as part of the ongoing cooperation with the Ministry of Development, the difficulties concerning the delimitation have also been signalled. Difficulties arise, among others. the fact that work should be started in the near future on the revision of existing land use documents, i.e. the concept of land use in 2030. This obligation arises from the Act, and by 2018, this imposes a law on us on spatial planning and development and we need to analyse possible changes. High Izbo, I would also like to point out that defining the boundaries of metropolitan areas and then establishing metropolitan unions is important for the sustainable development of the country. A link with specific policy-making tasks for transport and spatial development and with additional resources from the state budget and from the budgets of the municipalities forming it is an institutional tool for the development of the metropolitan area. It is therefore particularly important to define its boundaries wisely. Concentration on municipalities forming the so-called. The core of the metropolitan area and the omission of certain local authorities from the area, you can say, extreme can lead to disparities in their development. For this reason, this issue requires a specific diagnosis of the functional and development processes that occur in these areas. High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, It should also be noted that the time limits laid down in the Act for the establishment of metropolitan unions at the moment do not seem realistic enough to be fulfilled, since, according to the Act, a regulation should already be issued by the end of April for the establishment of a specific metropolitan area. And a large number of comments that come from both local authorities and, so to speak, from experts, indicate that this will have to be slightly modified. Modifications will be required to some extent by law. In the context of my information, it is important that the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration is currently working on an in-depth analysis of this problem. In the near future, we will probably want to propose a change in the proposed solutions. Nevertheless, in the context which is falling here, in the context of Silesia, the voivodships, i.e. the Silesian Voivodeship, are currently cooperating with representatives of local governments, they are kept informed of their intentions and plans in terms of possible changes to the law and the introduction of more precise provisions that will allow for a more realistic implementation of its provisions. For this reason, the Ministry is currently cooperating with the voivodships and with the National Institute of Territorial Self-Government, which has also been tasked with preparing an in-depth analysis of this problem. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u15	Thank you very much. I ask Mr Jan Grabc from the Civic Platform club to ask an additional question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u16	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In metropolitan areas which can form metropolitan unions - these areas are in Poland 10, according to the criteria contained in the Act and with the provisions of the concept of spatial development of the country - there are 15 million citizens, Poles who are waiting for the possibility of better organizing public transport in agglomeration areas. During these months there are also decisions on the spending of EU funds, among others. for the construction of transport infrastructure. It is very important for local governments to define the perspective, the moment of the possibility of establishing metropolitan unions, so that local governments can plan or build, for example. tram lines only in their municipalities or are to build coherent transport systems, as the European Union expects of us. Without the implementation of the metropolitan law, this will not be possible in practice. Will the government be able to launch metropolitan unions by 30 April? This is not only the inhabitants of Silesia, but also the Warsaw agglomeration.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u17	Please answer the questions asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u18	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, right now the government, or indeed the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, as I have said, is working both on the preparation of the regulation I have been talking about - we are also working with the Ministry of Development on the preparation of this Delimitation Regulation - as well as on the amendment of the law, so that the deadlines that will apply are more realistic so that this law can actually be implemented. So this April term is not, as I said before, fully realistic, but the amendment will set a later deadline for the introduction. Mazovia can be calm, too, if she expects me to say so, to be able to do so. This possibility will, of course, be given. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Romankowski will ask another question on the stability of the banking system. The question is addressed to the Minister of Finance and corresponds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Leszek Skiba. Please, sir, ask me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u20	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, In connection with last week's speech by former Deputy Minister of Finance, Konrad Raczkowski, who died during the seminar at the SGH, on the bankruptcy of several small banks in 2016 and on the adverse external factors for the banking sector, I would like to ask the Minister with a few questions about the stability and future of the banking system in Poland. The public has not yet heard the official reasons for the appeal by Konrad Raczkowski. In accordance with media speculation, was the only reason for its cancellation already mentioned in relation to the bankruptcy of several banks in 2016? Is it true that the former Deputy Minister's statement was influenced by an anonymous text sent out massly last week, probably by cyber criminals, with information about the imminent bankruptcy of one of the banks? Next question: Is there a real risk of bankruptcy of any of the banks? As you know, the supervisor or regulator tends to look at the stability of the banking sector as a whole and according to the latest assurances - after Konrad Raczkowski's statement - representatives of both KNF and the Ministry of Finance the Polish banking sector is stable and the funds collected in banks are safe. However, as is well known, trust is an extremely important factor in the financial market and banks are widely recognised as institutions of public confidence. Therefore, even if the indicators for the whole sector are favourable, the bankruptcy of one of the banks [[♪ The bell ♪]] can cause panic to other banks' customers and chain reaction, it is related. Is the Polish bank...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u21	Mr President, you will have one more minute to ask the rest of the questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u22	Okay, just let me, I'll finish...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u23	Let's get an answer. You're welcome, Minister Leszek Skiba.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u24	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I answer the questions of Mr Tomasz Romankowski. As regards the first question concerning the cancellation of Minister Raczkowski, in accordance with the Council of Ministers Act, this is the decision of the Prime Minister, of course, at the request of the Minister. All information relating to this decision has been made public. I cannot provide additional information about the intentions which were behind Minister Raczkowski's statement, nor do I know anything about any additional information that could complement official positions which were published on the occasion of the announcement of information that the appeal had been communicated that the decision of the Prime Minister of the appeal had been taken. As far as the question of the stability of the banking sector is concerned, it is so that I can say with some determination that there is no risk associated with the bankruptcy of banks in Poland. The fact is that the whole banking sector is a regulated market, therefore, it can be said that there is quite effective supervision - of course, with certain doubts about the functioning of KNF in the past, but, you can say, it is that this macro-prudential supervision functions relatively effectively and there are no dangers on the horizon that could allow us to put such risks also that there is a risk of bankruptcy of any bank. These surveillance instruments work well. First of all, I would like to remind you that there is a macro-prudential policy in Poland, there is a Financial Stability Committee - it is the body responsible for macro-prudential supervision of the financial system - there are measures to strengthen financial stability. Supervision shall be directed towards combating the creation and reduction of systemic risk which could lead to the destabilisation of the financial system. The Chairman of the Financial Stability Committee is the President of the National Bank of Poland, the Committee consists of the Minister of Finance, the Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission and the President of the Management Board of the Banking Guarantee Fund. This is a body in which these four main institutions responsible for the entire financial sector in Poland, of course, cooperate closely with each other. Two meetings of the Financial Stability Committee have already been held, chaired by the President of the NBP, on 27 December Ub. on 22 February and 22 February. Each meeting was followed by a communication containing information on the topics discussed at the meeting as well as on the decisions taken. In addition, which is worth highlighting, e.g. the latest report on financial stability, which was published in February - this is the report of the National Bank of Poland - also points to the stable situation of the banking sector in Poland. The information we can find in this report shows that this sector is well equipped with capital. For example, the Tier 1 base ratio increased between January and September last year from 14% to 14,8%. The satisfactory capital position also confirms the small share of banks with capital adequacy ratios below, you can say, this benchmark. Therefore, there are no real signs of significant risks. The report on the stability of the financial system also draws attention to the healthy nature of the banking sector, which is the increase in loans to the non-financial sector at a pace similar to the nominal rate of GDP growth. So we don't really have an extraordinary, excessive, or too slow, rate of credit growth for the non-financial sector. In addition, at the end, what I think is important to me is that, in the context of financial stability, it is worth paying attention to the work on the implementation of two important directives - here, in Parliament - the BRR and DGS directives, whose implementation is based on the draft law on the Bank Guarantee Fund, the deposit guarantee system and the forced restructuring. This is a project that's being processed now. And these two directives are important because the aim of the BRR directive is to establish a system in which the involvement of taxpayers, i.e. from the state budget, is limited, in the situation of rescuing the banking sector. In the case of problems in the banking sector, the losses are to be borne first by creditors, the bank's shareholders, which will also reduce such an excessive risk tendency. [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the banking sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u25	I would ask you to ask Mr Tomasz Romekowski another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u26	Thank you, Marshal. I wanted to ask you another question: How many banks are currently implementing the recovery programme? What is the size of the assets of banks currently implementing a recovery programme in assets of the entire Polish banking sector? In addition, I wanted to ask: At what stage is SK Bank's insolvency proceedings at present? Are there timely payments from the BFG to the depositors of the bank? Is it clear to what extent the bankruptcy of this bank and the need for the remaining banks to deposit about PLN 2 billion to BFG in connection with this event will affect the profit of the banking sector? And last question: Did all banks implement in a timely manner, i.e. until 31 December 2015, and to the full extent of the P recommendation issued by KNF concerning the management of the liquidity market in banks? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u27	Thank you very much. And I'll ask for an answer from Minister Leszek Skiba. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u28	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm answering a supplementary question. Because the recovery programme is now covered by 40 SKOKs, no bank is covered by the recovery programme. As regards the question concerning the Bank's SK, the payment of all guarantees, the deposits follow the timetable. As far as this amount of PLN 2 billion, which was financed by the banks, is concerned, of course, to some extent the need to pay out these PLN 2 billion affects the profitability of the banking sector. As regards the last question, which is recommendation P, I would like to propose a written reply to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u29	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz from the Modern Club. This question is about the publication of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal - to the President of the Council of Ministers. He will answer, under the authority of the Prime Minister, the Minister - a member of the Council of Ministers, the Head of the Office of the Prime Minister, Ms Beata Kempa.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u30	High Izbo! The meeting of the Constitutional Tribunal on 8 and 9 March and the judgment given is a lesson of democracy and a lesson of respect for the letter of law for the PiS government. It is a pity that the representatives of the PiS, unfortunately, chose the absence and did not take advantage of this lesson, and showed disrespect for the institution which was established by the Constitution. However, I would like to ask the question: When does the Prime Minister intend to publish the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 9 March 2016? Publication shall be purely technical, Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the application of this Regulation. The 2nd Constitution leaves no doubt Decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal should be published without delay. The authority required to publish them shall have no right to block them, suspend them or assess their suitability. None of the provisions mentions any role of the President of the Council of Ministers, whether it is a decision-making role, whether it is a control role, in terms of what should and should not be published. The President of the Council of Ministers - and the Governmental Legislative Centre under him - is here a technical, auxiliary body, is not competently empowered to review the decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal. Those who, contrary to their obligation to do so, refuse to publish a judgment, abuse their powers or do not fulfil their responsibilities, assassinate the constitution. If the Government of PiS does not publish this judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, it will assume full and exclusive responsibility for deepening the constitutional crisis. I would just like to remind you that the Prime Minister took a vow to the Constitution - a constitution which is the highest law of the Republic of Poland. The position you will take on tomorrow's judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal is Rubicon. Or you'll cross it... [[Boring.]] ...and you will withdraw Poland before 1989, or at the last minute you will come to your senses and give you a chance to resolve this constitutional crisis within the framework of a democratic rule of law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u31	I ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u32	Minister! I'm sorry. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! The position of certain judges of the Constitutional Tribunal presented on 9 March 2016 only creates an external appearance of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal and is not a judgment on the legal side. It should be noted that although the case concerning the non-compliance with the Constitution of the Law of 22 December 2015 on the amendment of the Constitutional Tribunal Act should be dealt with in full, three judges elected by the Polish Parliament of the Constitutional Tribunal, from whom the President of the Republic of Poland took the oath, were not allowed to consider it. The omission of those judges caused the case not to be dealt with by the Constitutional Tribunal as the body appointed to rule on the compatibility of normative acts with the Constitution. The decision of such a body does not therefore come from an authorized constitutional body and, what is important to us, does not contain all the signatures of the judges, and this is a sine qua non condition of the judgment. Thus, such a position cannot exist in legal proceedings as a judgment. [[Voice from the courtroom: Judgment.]] The standard resulting directly from the article cannot be disregarded. Paragraph 194. 1 the Constitution according to which the Constitutional Tribunal consists of 15 judges and so many judges, as indicated above, have been properly elected. Therefore, by refusing to allow judges of the Constitutional Tribunal to rule in the present case, the President of the Constitutional Tribunal, in our view, infringed the Article. 7 Constitution of the Republic of Poland. In addition, the present case is referred to as the case. Act K 47/15 should be dealt with in accordance with the provisions of the Act of 25 June 2015 on the Constitutional Court in the current version of the Act of 22 December 2015 amending the Act on the Constitutional Court, since each law benefits from the presumption of constitutionality and as such should be applied by the tribunal and your President. Accordingly, any public authority, including the Constitutional Tribunal, should respect the applicable provisions which are making use of the presumption of constitutionality. The Court's arbitrary recognition by the Constitutional Tribunal that the Law of 22 December 2015 amending the Constitutional Tribunal Act does not benefit from the presumption of constitutionality and cannot apply in the proceedings being conducted in that case, infringes the principle of legalism as set out in Article. 7 Constitution of the Republic of Poland. As a result, the position given on 9 March 2016 wrongly referred to as the judgment merely expresses the views of certain judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. [[Really?]] The Constitutional Tribunal in our assessment of its actions in the present case may have infringed the Constitution's provisions, including the Article. 7, expressing the principle which I mentioned above and which is contained in Article. 197, which provides that the organisation of the Constitutional Tribunal and the procedure for proceedings before the Tribunal shall be governed by a law. The non-application of the Law of 25 June 2015 on the Constitutional Tribunal in its existing version, as amended by the Act of 22 December 2015 amending the Act on the Constitutional Court, therefore constitutes an infringement of Article. 197 Constitution of the Republic of Poland. In view of the circumstances presented by me, it should be noted that there is no judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal on the compatibility with the Constitution of the Law of 22 December 2015, which could be published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. It should be stressed that the President of the Council of Ministers, as a constitutional body, is required to comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, and in particular with Article. 7 principles of legalism according to which public authorities operate on the basis and within the limits of the law. The position of certain judges of the Constitutional Tribunal of 9 March would therefore constitute an infringement of the constitutional principle of legalism and of Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the application of this Regulation. 2 of the Constitution, according to which judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal are subject to immediate publication in the Official Journal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! From this point of view, I would also like to say that the Prime Minister has not yet reached this position on her desk, so that we can assess whether there are, for example, the required number of signatures, if there are 13 and more signatures, if there are 12, as we were polite to see in the media yesterday. In view of this, I would like to acknowledge it as it did at the outset. Therefore, if this meeting took place among 12 judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, even if the President of the Constitutional Tribunal does not regard the Law of 22 December as a basis, which is [[♪ The bell ♪]] An absolute mistake and violation of the Constitution, however, if he claimed that this meeting should be held on the basis of the Constitution, the Constitution of the Republic of Poland says that the composition of the tribunal is 15 judges, and the majority of the judges or the one which is mentioned or established in the December Act...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u33	Minister, allow me.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u34	...this is the majority of 13 to 15 judges.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u35	Minister, allow me to ask the Member...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u36	If there are 12 signatures, we cannot take that as a judgment of the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Bravo, Minister, bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u37	Madam, do you want to ask an additional question? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u38	High Izbo! By refusing to publish the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, Prime Minister, you are destroying the foundation of democracy, which is the division of power, really. [[Applause]] The threefold division of power is not that President Jarosław Kaczyński gives orders to the President in the morning, to the Prime Minister at noon, and to the Constitutional Court in the evening. [[Applause]] The constitutional crisis that PiS politicians have caused, only PiS politicians can end. No constitutional authority or office in Poland has the right to assess the substantive judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. [[Voice from the room: Yes, it does!]] The judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal shall have universal force and shall be final. [[Applause]] No one has the right to judge whether this judgment is legal, whether the composition of the court was correct or not. No one has the right to control whether this sentence meets any requirements, whether it is an opinion or a conclusion from a social meeting. [[Voice from the hall: This is what Lech Kaczyński, president, was talking about.]] Ladies and gentlemen, do you really believe that you have the power to judge whether the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal is lawful or not? I ask again: When will the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 9 March 2016 be published? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u39	I ask the Minister to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u40	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! That's it. That's it. That's it. No one is above the law and beyond the constitution. The President of the Constitutional Tribunal is not particularly above the law and constitution. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] The President of the Constitutional Tribunal, ministers, officials, Members, all citizens of the Republic of Poland are obliged to act within the limits of the law, under the law, but they are also obliged to apply the law. [[Relax, don't yell.]] The law is adopted by the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, which is an emanation of the will of the nation. [[Applause]] All other offices, in accordance with Article. 7 constitutions, to act within the limits of the law and on the basis of the law. [[Room voice: Bravo, Minister.]] Madam President, the Constitutional Tribunal's judgment is being published... [[Voice from the room: It is our duty.]] Yes, it's our duty. [[Voice from the room: This is a vending machine.]] I'd even say it's a sacred duty, [[Applause]] But in a situation where we're dealing with a ruling by the Constitutional Court... [[Voice from the room: This is your assessment.]] ...the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal shall be deemed if it is issued under the law [[Applause]] and in accordance with the procedure adopted by the Law of 22 December 2015 [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: But he stayed, you read the sentence.]] This is the will of the nation, and it may be that all will be, especially those, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] and in particular those who are to set an example, Madam, an example to others how to apply the law, and we have the right That's what we're looking for. On the other hand, a loose interpretation of the law as to what is the will of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, this is already a political dispute. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: You are alone, alone.]] The legal dispute ended on 22 December 2015, and more specifically when the President of the Republic of Poland signed this bill when this law was published, and when the judges of the tribunal were in an absolutely legal manner sworn in by the President of the Republic of Poland. And no one has the right to allow judges sworn in by the President of the Republic of Poland to rule. For now, if it is true that the signatures under judgment are 12, then we must not deal with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: You are alone.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u41	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Krzysztof Paszyk, a club of the Polish People's Party, on the proposed amendments to the new draft Water Law Act. The question is addressed to the Minister of Environment and will be answered by Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment Mr Mariusz Gajda. Please, sir, ask me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u42	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Major concerns about water management have been raised by changes in the Water Law Act. The bill, which has been prepared, contains a number of inconsistencies in its records. The first thing that comes after reading the draft law is the gross inconsistency in determining the circle of local government units, their authorities entitled to carry out water management activities. And so on. in accordance with the draft law applicable to water management are the Minister responsible for Water Management, the Director of the Water Management Office, the State Water Farm of Poland, the Director of the Maritime Office, the Voivodeship and the Mayor, the Mayor or the President of the City. Given the three-step nature of the local government, entrusting the exercise of the ownership powers of the State Treasury with respect to inland waters flowing in connection with Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the application of this Regulation. 3 should be extended to include the governor and marshal of the voivodship. In addition, the project is very extensive and includes, to a large extent, specific provisions and requirements to be transposed into the implementing regulations. The number of waters of regional importance has also been increased and they have been entrusted with maintaining the National Water Farm of Poland without increasing the involvement of public funds transferred for this purpose. Therefore, please answer the following questions: Can you confirm that a new Water Law project has been prepared? Second question: According to the new Water Law project, the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development was deprived of influence on water management in agriculture. Third question: Does the lack of a new Water Law really deprive Poland of EU subsidies for water management? The fourth question: The draft of the new Water Law does not refer to existing services which are currently engaged in water management for agriculture. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It is a staff that knows the needs of agriculture and has the necessary technical facilities to perform...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u43	Mr President, you will finish asking questions in the second round.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u44	...the tasks of water management in agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u45	I'll ask Minister Mariusz Gajda for an answer. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u46	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to say that there is not yet a draft Water Law Act. I do not know where these records come from, it is not a document that can be discussed, it is a working outline, but unfortunately in the age of the Internet, in the age of emails, information which is unofficial information is working information, somehow it comes out, but it is not yet possible to build certain opinions on them. Of course, the Water Law Act is one of the priorities of this government, among others. because it is so-called. an ex ante condition for the use of Union funds. If - what you have asked - we do not adopt the Water Law and, in particular, two elements: the application of the Nitrates Directive in such a way as to satisfy, on the one hand, the conditions of this Directive and, on the other hand, to ensure that farmers, especially small farms, and the second element is the reimbursement of the cost of water services. We are really working on this project, we are having work talks, but yet this document is not sufficiently worked out to make it public, because what it is about, among other things. The Member asked, these are the records that have already been deleted. In general, we will have to strengthen the economic principle of the so-called economy. water catchment, this is the basic principle and applied in Poland for many years, but also adopted in the Water Framework Directive. Here I wanted to say one thing: water management, i.e. water, must serve all sectors, above all the population, to supply water, to serve in such a way that it may pose a risk of flooding or drought as little as possible. It must also fulfil all other economic roles, very important such as agriculture or inland navigation. The concept of water as important for agriculture, in particular, as the European Commission points out, is, in a sense, an archaic concept, because it would also be possible to extract water that is important for inland waterway transport, which is important for energy, for example. tourism. Water is intended to serve all - all, I stress - areas of life in Poland, to serve citizens. Indeed, we are currently working to reorganise a comprehensive reorganisation of water management services, but I wanted to assure you that any such reorganisation would be, we will certainly benefit from the services of excellent professionals who are currently working in water management. They are paid very low, but they work with great conscientiousness and knowledge of things. Not only will they be needed, but will also need new, young staff to finally start to function as it should operate in a modern country. Water management is one of the few areas in Poland that were not reformed after 1989. [[Applause]] It is really one of very few such areas. There, you can say, we are still in the previous political system, the system of the system, which is why it is so important to regulate all these matters. There must be efficient management on the one hand and efficient financing on the other. Therefore, the principle of reimbursement of the cost of water services consists inter alia. that all the water charges that are, will remain, will be used to develop water management and increase safety. At the moment this is done in a way, you can say, chaotic, in a discretionary way, but we need to create a really efficient system that will allow not only the fulfilment of these ex ante conditions, because it is important, but above all, that it is possible to feel safe for Poland to develop over the next years. The reform of water law, ladies and gentlemen, is part of the government's programme, among others. in the 500+ program. The point is that we need to develop non-urbanised areas and, at the same time, we need to try to create a system in order to relieve the state budget by developing this area. And that's why it's this such an extremely important act - perhaps little media, but extremely important. We are doing very intensive work at the moment, which we intend to complete, in accordance with the notification we gave to the Council of Ministers, in the first half of this year. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u47	Thank you very much. I ask you to finish your questions, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u48	Thank you, Minister, for your response to the stage in which preparations for this project are underway. At this point, we're clear. On the other hand, I would like to ask why, as the Minister has described, the regional management of water drainage and equipment has been eliminated from these working talks. These are well-organized entities, which today largely bear the burden of water management. It is these entities that carry out many useful and necessary investments in our country, and it seems to me that it would also be worth taking advantage of these experiences of the voivodship management of drainage and water equipment, especially since for several years there has been a Convention of Directors of Voivodship Boards of Melioration and Water Equipment, very open to cooperation in the creation of good water law, one which will ensure progress [[♪ The bell ♪]] There is much in satisfying those needs which I agree with the Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u49	Please respond to Minister Mariusz Gajda.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u50	Thank you very much. I would like to answer this question very specifically, sir. Namely yesterday I met with the President of the Convention, Director Błochowiak from Poznań, and we agreed to meet on 21 March. We were supposed to meet in Toruń on 14 March, but unfortunately I have a visit to Brussels with Minister Szyszka and we have therefore postponed this meeting with the entire convention to 21 March, for the next Monday. Of course, we'll take advantage of the experience. I am well aware of this environment, and I would like to tell you that I have been working in water management since 1980, so that I have some experience. I know this environment and, of course, we will work very productively with this environment, I hope. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u51	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Sylvester Tułayev and Mr Łukasz Schreiber of the Law and Justice Club - on the appropriateness of setting up a special purpose vehicle for computerization and the expected date of the first effects of its activities. The question is addressed to the Minister of Finance. Responsible for the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Leszek Skiba. I would like to ask Mr Łukasz Schreiber for a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u52	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! According to Prime Minister Morawiecki, the VAT gap is 35 to 55 billion PLN in the budget. The VAT system was announced both in the Law and Justice programme and during the campaign itself. The Ministry of Finance set itself the goal in 2016 of sealing the collection of tax duties. In order to do so, it is necessary to give the tax authorities the means to combat such crimes and, as I understand it, the purpose of this purpose is to establish a special purpose vehicle for computerisation. The purpose of the special purpose vehicle cannot and will not, as I understand it, be the acquisition of data and the administration of taxpayers' data, but the preparation of IT solutions. In view of the doubts that arise, I would like to ask a few questions: Firstly, what is the justification for setting up a special purpose vehicle for computerization? Secondly, when will the first results be? Thirdly, will the company have access to business secrets? Fourthly, will the employees be subject to tax confidentiality? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u53	Please, Minister, we're waiting for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u54	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I answer the question of Members. Thank you so much for that question. Indeed, the VAT gap is estimated at the level mentioned by Mr Łukasz Schreiber. The European Commission, in one of the reports that was published in 2015, points out more specifically this amount of 40 billion, but, indeed, depending on the institutions, this amount can be... this respect can indeed be similar to what you have been talking about. One can say that the VAT gap is specific in the sense that it is not so that it results from... This is more due to criminal activities, especially activities such as setting up companies for poles, then these companies disappear after numerous transactions. So, in fact, the legal changes are of course important here and will certainly be introduced, but the main force of action... On the part of the state administration, this should be primarily a matter of practical action. In this sense, indeed, the VAT gap is a problem of inefficient action, and it can be said that the limited efficiency of the tax administration's activities is limited. Therefore, the plans presented by Minister Shamacha are based on a three-piece programme. Firstly, this is the provision to the tax authorities of appropriate IT tools that provide information on potential fraud in real time. Here is really the project, the core of which is the central invoice register, i.e. the invoices which are later the basis for extortion, would be available in real time and this is the basis for having confidence and hope that this instrument works. I'll talk about international experiences later. Secondly, a project is being prepared on the national tax administration, i.e. linking this part of the tax administration to the customs administration on the one hand. Of course, there will also be the part of the administration responsible for tax control. Because at the same time we have such a diagnosis, and this is a common diagnosis, that the important problem of these frauds is the limited efficiency of cooperation between customs and fiscal structures. This synergy is necessary in order to actually counteract VAT fraud. Why do we have reason to believe that this system can work? Firstly, there is a Portuguese effect in the literature analysing the functioning of these solutions. The information that Portugal is working on the preparation of such an IT solution has reduced the VAT gap by 30% over the year. 30% of 40 billion is 12 billion PLN, it is worth remembering that. Secondly, there is an example of the state of Ohio, whose tax office collects 21 types of taxes. The IT system operating there allowed to increase revenue levels to 2% on an annual basis. And Russia, which has implemented this system, has increased its VAT tax revenue by 20% as a result of the introduction of this IT solution in recent years. So we're 20%. greater VAT revenue. In addition, such solutions, very similar, function in Slovakia. Since 2012, the result is that this level of VAT deficiency is decreasing annually at such a rate that if we actually assumed that at the same rate this level of VAT deficiency, and in Poland it is at 25% A little more than 25%... If this Slovak effect applied to Poland on the same scale, it would mean raising VAT revenues, based on an increase in the tax base, by about 10 million a year. In addition, it is worth referring to the Dutch experience. So that it is not a new thing, it is worth mentioning. There are a lot of positive effects from all over the world. In fact, we estimate that the effects will occur at the moment that this company, which is going to build this tool, will end up and this system will start working. In fact, 2016 is the period during which these solutions will be implemented. We assume that in 2017 really these real, already important fiscal effects will occur. As far as access to trade secrets is concerned, we assume that this company will indeed prepare such IT solutions that it will later practice the use of these IT solutions within public institutions. And of course, because we're dealing with two very sensitive elements, i.e. first of all, with access to data, for example on a non-nomised and test level, and second of all, access to source codes that can be critical, [[♪ The bell ♪]] We assume that this will also be controlled by state services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u55	I would like to ask Mr Sylvester Tulayev for an additional question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u56	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In the discussion on the proposal of the Ministry of Finance, the opponents stress, criticizing this project, that the exclusion of the Chief Data Protection Officer is a bad idea. When we read this solution and the Ministry's proposal, we see that the subject of the company's activities will not be to collect and administer taxpayers' data, so this exclusion is absolutely justified. But I'd like to ask the Minister to confirm it again. I would also like to ask once again specifically when the test phase will take place and how and when we could expect the first achievements of this project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u57	You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u58	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! So, yes, full agreement, the company is not set up to replace the tax administration. The company is established to prepare an IT solution, which later, you can say, will be transferred to the tax administration. Therefore, this is a critical element, i.e. the operation of the company in such a situation that it uses the data identified in such a way as to actually verify whether this system will work and gradually correct it. Therefore, there is a need to maintain full transparency and, at the same time, confidentiality when it comes to accessing data. That is why we are working on such solutions to guarantee full secrecy when it comes to taxpayers' data, so that in reality all secrets remain in the tax administration. As far as the test phase is concerned, it is such that the company will prepare an IT solution, and so already at the real level it will start to work in 2017, although we have reason to believe that the beginning of 2017 is such a phase, it can be said, more it can be defined as a test solution in the sense that it has the first effects to indicate these sources of VAT deficiency to the tax administration. Therefore, on the one hand, we expect that real fiscal effects, i.e. the reduction of this gap related to the shortage of VAT revenues, will emerge and these extraordinary tax revenues will occur in 2017, while this year 2017 is the period during which all work will actually end. At the beginning of 2017, all work will be completed, although from the beginning of 2017, all this should already be in at least the test phase. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u59	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz and Mr Stanisław Gawłowski from the Civic Platform Club - on the publication of a regulation of the Minister of the Environment on the mechanical and biological treatment of mixed municipal waste. That's a question for the Minister of Environment. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment Mr Sławomir Mazurek will answer. Please - I see that Gabriel Lenartowicz is on her way - to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u60	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Until 23 January this year, the Environment Minister's Regulation of 11 September 2012 on mechanical and biological waste was in force, but the Regulation expired on the basis of Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the application of this Regulation. 2 Waste Act. This means that, as of 24 January, there are currently no provisions that specify in detail the requirements for the mechanical and biological treatment of municipal waste. I do not need to explain how important these issues are to people in this industry, and this would seem to be specialized, but directly affecting the quality of life, but also the health of residents. My question relates to the plans of the Ministry of the Environment for the publication of a regulation which was prepared and signed in November 2015 by the then Minister of the Environment. Although the legislative delegation contained in the article. Article 33 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The 3rd Waste Act states that the regulation is not an obligation but an optional mandate of the Minister of Environment, but we are now in such a state that the rules governing these issues are rules of a large degree of generality. Although the communication from the Ministry of Environment contains information which also directs interested parties to general provisions of both the Waste Act and the Environmental Law, and to [[♪ The bell ♪]] the requirements of the best technologies, but such a regulation seems necessary. Other questions in the supplementary question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u61	I ask Minister Sławomir Mazurka to respond. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u62	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The matter of the regulation, which, as already mentioned here, is an optional regulation, is dedicated to only one specific, specific installation, namely mechanical installations, to mechanical-biological treatment of precipitation. The statutory delegation offers the opportunity to talk about other installations, i.e. not only SMEs, but also installations where biological processing takes place, as regards composting plants, fermentation plants, sorting plants, thermal treatment plants. We are at a particular time, at a time when we face the challenges of the circular economy, as well as at a time when we are working very actively on new, best techniques, so-called. BAT-based products. We therefore know that this regulation on the mechanical, biological treatment of municipal waste has been examined for a very long time, and there have been many reservations about it. Many reservations have been raised, also as this regulation will increase costs for residents. There were also voices about possible suspicions that this regulation is really only for a few installations in Poland. Of course, we are talking here about certain reports, certain. Nothing can be said about prosecutorial proceedings, but, of course, we have come to this subject with a great deal of understanding, and the doubts that may have arisen are explained in the communication. It's just that today these MBP installations met the RIPOK definition. There we can directly raise what requirements, also related to an integrated permit, such an installation could meet. Because the fact is that, looking from the perspective of the installation, if the installation had to meet very strict requirements and at the same time it would have to adapt to the BAT regulations in a moment, this could involve an increase in the price. Already today, prices for residents, which we would like to avoid... Of course, at this point we can say that the waste management system has a powerful reserve in proper waste management. Hence our work on updating the National Waste Management Plan. Therefore, our active attitude in the European debate on the circular economy. So I say: this regulation was, as has already been said, an optional regulation. You can use the provisions that result directly from the Waste Management Act. Honestly, they don't get there, we didn't get a wave of protests after this regulation wasn't published. Here local authorities, installations deal with this problem, which in fact is not a problem, because using the definition of regional installation and treatment of municipal waste, these parameters can be achieved, also from those guidelines that are already in force in BAT. You can also use this and run this system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u63	Thank you very much. And, please, an additional question, Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u64	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I agree, of course, because the controversy about the nature of the mechanical-biological installations was and is still going on, but my question is precisely this and these suggestions that the Minister wanted to raise, that we have a really free American in the country right now. There are no protests, because we do not see directly the effects of how requirements are interpreted by potential investors, because BAT requirements according to the laws in force in Poland, Environmental Law, become universal only when they are announced in the Official Journal of the European Union and they have not been announced. Besides, the minister said he mentioned that there was work to be done on updating, which is true. The votes are now also coming from the officials, [[♪ The bell ♪]] who want to oversee these installations in accordance with law and social interest. At the moment, unfortunately, this overinterpretation...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u65	Member, please proceed to the end.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u66	...leads to pathology greater than even some narrowing of these requirements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u67	You're welcome, Minister, to answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u68	Mrs. Member! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for this word: pathology, because one of our priorities in waste management is the fight against the grey zone, the fight against all pathologies. And I have to say that recent years have not changed much about the fight against pathology, the fight against the grey zone, hence our efforts to strengthen the Environmental Protection Inspections and concrete actions related to the updating of the National Waste Management Plan. As for the possibility of such reference points for the administration, for these officials, here we have the Environmental Law, we have a definition of RIPOK. We are always ready to help when there is any doubt. We have here, our employees, also the permanent memory of the administration. I encourage you to use it if any doubts arise. Any legal and legislative doubts in this respect will be clarified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u69	The next question will be asked by Mr Michał Cieślak and Mr Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk, the Law and Justice Club, on the debt of the Navy Shipyard and the supervision of its property by the syndicate - to the Minister of National Defence. He will answer the question of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Bartosz Kownacki. I ask you to ask Mr Michał Cieślak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u70	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! High Izbo! My question concerns the debt of the Navy Shipyard and is addressed to the Minister of National Defence. Minister! Is it true that the previous government left the Navy Shipyard in liquidation with debt exceeding PLN 300 million, and now the syndicate owns part of the yard? On 22 February, during the away meeting of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, connected with the visit of the Gdynia Port, we were informed that the syndicate, a civilian person, occupies the property of the shipyard in which the Navy ships are stationed. Is it therefore true that a civilian person, in this case the syndicate, disposes of and supervises the property of the Naval Shipyard in which military ships are stationed? Let me just remind you that Gdynia Naval Shipyard is a place of stationing and construction of the Polish naval fleet. Is it true that the previous government of PO and PSL has prepared a sales plan of 6 ha together with the facilities and, of course, the quay belonging to this yard? Minister! In the current situation, has there been gross negligence and conduct to the detriment of [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Polish state's right? And the most important question is: Hasn't state security been compromised? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u71	I ask Minister Bartosz Kownacki to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u72	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! To answer this question, I can, first of all, start with such a conclusion that the Naval Shipyard is not only an example of 8 years, it is de In fact, an example from our transformation period, because the case lasts several years. This is an example of how very important and good bets can be destroyed and not exploit their potential. Navy Shipyard is the oldest shipyard in Poland, with a 90-year tradition, which performs tasks for defence and security of the state, which has adequate capabilities in this area, is necessary to preserve the security of the state. Well, the last 8 years are an example of how nothing has been done in this case and allowed to destroy the potential that lies in this yard. This indeed violates the Polish state's right, the treatment of this crucial potential from the point of view of the security of the state. But speaking of Navy Shipyard, you have to go back a little earlier, because these are also the consequences of governments such as the Democratic Left Alliance. The question was that the yard was indebted to more than PLN 350 million, that was exactly PLN 318 million. This debt was due, among other things. from the fact that in 2001 the construction of the Gawron corvette was started. These were supposed to be initially two corvetas with the possibility of building another five, or seven corvetas. The first one was valued at about PLN 630 million. To this you had to add worth several hundred million zlotys integrated fighting system. If this project were then properly financed, because from the very beginning it lacked money, and if the yard were properly managed, today it would be one of the key plants in Poland, an exemplary example of how to use Polish defence potential, how to invest money in Polish defence potential, and today this yard would probably have huge export capacity, we would have our flagship. Unfortunately, for 16 years, one corvette has not been constructed. Today, in 2016, we know that in time it will not even be constructed and put into service a patrol ship to replace Gawron. Well, in 2013, it was decided that since this shipyard was unable to return one corvette, and I remind you that there was a plan for seven, let's make a patrol ship. It was to be committed until the end of 2016. It will be the most expensive patrol ship in the world, but even at that date, everything indicates that it will not be completed. This shows how the lack of funding, the lack of attention of individual governments since 2001 and the lack of proper management of the yard's assets led to this situation. Since 2009, the yard has been in bankruptcy with the possibility of concluding an agreement and since 2011 in liquidation. That's why I say it's a scandal. For four years, a company which is of crucial importance for the security of the State is in liquidation bankruptcy, which should de facto end with the liquidation of the plant and not last for four years. This would restore the potential of this yard. She's going on, and there's basically no decision in this area. Indeed, today, as the honourable Member has rightly said, the impact of the Ministry of National Defence on the Navy Shipyard is none, because this unfortunately results simply from the law. There's the Commissioner's judge, there's the syndicate, possibly the creditors' council, and these are the parties to the negotiations today. This is a fatal situation from the point of view of this yard and from the point of view of the modernization programs of the Polish army, which are to be implemented, because the continuing infinity in the situation of liquidation, when the subject of the negotiations is a syndicate, which is intended to lead to its liquidation... This can't be the subject with which the Ministry of National Defence negotiates. The entity with which the Ministry of National Defence negotiates must be a company in which there is a board which bears the consequences of its economic decisions. Then it's a partner to make deals. This situation needs to be healed as soon as possible so that all that is good in this plant, as I said, is that the huge potential, the place in the port, as well as the people who work there, who have a huge experience, whose potential can be used for the needs of the Navy, the Navy Shipyard, has been exploited, and this needs to be realized. Unfortunately, the Navy Yard's assets were sold out slowly as well. Luckily, it's not like he's been sold out most of the time. Part of the property that you asked about was purchased by the Ministry of National Defence, while two private entities were also found, which bought part of the property: Stal Complex for the amount of approx. 3 million PLN and Tacon, which bought part of the property for about 1.5 million PLN, we estimate that this was an irrational operation, because this property is located in the Navy Shipyard. If the Ministry of National Defence bought real estate for several tens of millions of PLN, the resale of this external company for 1.5 million PLN was a completely irrational action. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Luckily, there's no risk of any more properties being sold without the permission of the Ministry of National Defence. This is the result of the Real Estate Management Act because these areas border with military areas. There has to be an agreement from the Ministry of National Defence. Of course she won't be here. About the last question...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u73	Minister, we will ask the Member... State Secretary at the Ministry of National Defence Bartosz Kownacki: ...that's where they're stationed, actually military ships are stationed. ...if he wants to ask a question and finish in the next part. State Secretary at the Ministry of National Defence Bartosz Kownacki: Thank you very much. Mr President, do you want to ask another question, or are we done here? [[Yes, I will.]] Yes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u74	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In view of this fact, does this mismanagement have an impact on the previous government, whether it has violated the security of the state and has there been gross negligence and activity to the detriment of the Polish state? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u75	You're welcome, Minister, to answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u76	Mr President, as I said, there is no doubt to me that if the yard has been bankrupt since 2009, and we are in 2016, if we have not been able to build one corveta for 15 years, it is a violation of important interests, the security of the state, and the consequences are borne by the previous government. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u77	The next question will be asked by Ms Anna Białkowska and Ms Anna Wasilewska, the Civic Platform Club. The question on cooperative savings and credit banks is addressed to the Minister of Finance. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Leszek Skiba will answer. I ask Anna Białkowska to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u78	Thank you, Marshal. I have a question. It was addressed to Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki because he is a banker, so I wanted to ask him for an answer, but there is a minister, thank you very much. I think he's gonna give me answers to dispel the concerns and concerns of members of cooperative savings and credit banks with deposits in these banks, sometimes life savings. Due to the collapse of the next SKOK in Poland, please inform us how much money has already been paid out of the Banking Guarantee Fund as a result of the collapse of previous SKOKs. Next: What assistance did the banking system provide to cooperative savings and credit banks? Isn't the flagship banking product of Law and Justice, like the SKOKs, a threat to the stability of our banking system? Are the savings in SKOKs safe? I would like to remind you here that in 2009 the Civic Platform introduced a law regulating the guarantee of deposits for those who save in SKOKs. On this basis, savers in SKOKs have paid, they are guaranteed their savings 100% up to the amount of 100 thousand. Euros. Initially, the banks contributed to the Banking Guarantee Fund these amounts and were also guaranteed, including bank guarantees, to other, also to the SKOKs. So, Minister, I'm asking for an answer on this matter.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u79	I would like to ask Minister Leszek Skiba for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u80	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm answering a question about SKOKs. What is worth paying attention to is that savings in SKOKs are absolutely safe, just as safe as placing savings in the banking sector, in banks. SKOK-i are covered by a guarantee of deposits. This system has been operational since 2013. It is also worth remembering that, as your Member has already said, this was introduced in 2013 on the basis of a change that was voted by the majority led by the Civic Platform. By 2013, SKOK-i had their own deposit guarantee system based on the Mutual Insurance Association of SKOK. This system did not generate any effects at the time for public finances, for the banking sector or for the Banking Guarantee Fund. So you could say... It is also worth remembering that it was not the SKOKs themselves who asked to be covered by the Bank Guarantee Fund, but it was sanctioned by the change of law without, you can say, the willingness and will of the SKOKs themselves. Therefore, if today we are talking about financial effects related to the occasional trouble of the SKOKs, it can be said that this is the effect of that law, in fact, which was adopted in 2013. As we have reason to believe, it is on the basis of this law that payments related to deposit guarantees have been introduced, and as a result this law has generated liabilities for banks to finance deposit guarantees when some SKOK has problems. What is still important is that the total assets of all SKOKs are about 0.8% all assets in the financial sector, in fact, in the banking sector. So we're dealing with a situation where the SKOKs play an important complementary role in terms of a certain offer for customers, but in no way can we say that this share, less than 1% , generates any risk to the stability of the banking sector in Poland. At the same time, the fact that there is no such risk was also confirmed in the February report on financial stability - this is a very important report prepared twice a year by the National Bank of Poland - in which it is written that the problems of the SKOK sector do not pose a direct threat to the stability of the national financial system due to the size of the sector, the possibility of substitution of services provided by it and small links with other financial institutions. So that in this respect it is difficult to undermine the opinion of the National Bank of Poland. At the same time, in answer to your question, I confirm once again that, in view of the fact that this law on the inclusion of SKOKs in the deposit guarantee scheme has entered into force, today the guarantee of up to 100,000. zł, sorry, security deposit guarantee up to 100,000. Euros... [[Yes.]] ...acts for both banks and SKOKs, so there is no difference in this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u81	Thank you very much. An additional question will be asked by Anna Wasilewska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u82	Thank you very much, Marshal. I'm addressing the Minister. However, since 2015, there have been many facts that show that cooperative savings and credit banks are insolvent and that they support more than 2.5 million citizens. I have a question: How many SKOKs are covered by the recovery programme today, and what is the prospect of getting out of this difficult situation? What is the condition of the SKOKs and what measures have been taken to heal the situation in the SKOKs that have losses? As banks fall, banks consist of withdrawals, and when SKOK falls, payments are covered by a guarantee fund that is not supplemented. That's why I'm asking this question in the interest of the SKOK situation. People, citizens of our country don't feel safe, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And yet they have big savings just in SKOKs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u83	Thank you very much. Please respond to Minister Leszek Skiba. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u84	Mrs. Marshal! With regard to the question of inclusion in the recovery programme, 40 SKOKs are currently covered by the recovery programme, and the prospect of exit from this recovery programme concerns 9 SKOKs. In fact, supervision... Additional details on how this recovery programme is progressing, to what extent it allows itself to recover from the situation in the SKOKs, it is the domain of the analysis of the Financial Supervision Commission. One can say that it is also worth noting that a number of doubts about the SKOKs are a little bit the result of bad propaganda when it comes to the SKOKs, that is also important. That's actually the question of how much... You can say that: the condition of both SKOKs and banks depends on trust actually. This trust is built on concrete data such as solvency indicators, as well as results from a certain public atmosphere. We are aware that the role of financial supervision is to check the indicators and that these hard figures allow us to say that the financial institution is in good condition. We have guarantees of deposits at the same time. But we must not forget that, in fact, as we are concerned about the stability of the banking sector in the sense that we cannot overly express the unjustified concerns about the stability of banks, so also, I have the impression that there may be an appeal here, that we should also look at the SKOKs from the same perspective. So if we're saying that the SKOK sector... If we stress our fears overly and inform the public that SKOK-i is a risk, it is an analogous attitude, as if we were saying that the banking system in Poland is in trouble. I have the impression that this is an additional risk. Now, here's the question. I have the impression that this is a question, that is, we have a question to answer... This is worth paying attention to. So if we say that there are people who pay attention to the problems of SKOKs, they overexpress their doubts about the condition of SKOKs, which, at the same time, please see, are currently under supervision of the KNF, then, you can say, the side effect of these actions is to get people to doubt whether to place their deposits there. And that's not the way it should be. We should be calming things down. Just like it's important that I try to calm down and emphasize [[♪ The bell ♪]] The security of deposits in banks, as well, I have the impression, we should calm people down when it comes to SKOKs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u85	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mrs Anna Krupka and Mr Waldemar Andzel, the Law and Justice Club, on the state of play on the implementation of Directive 2014/67/EU on the enforcement of Directive 96/71/EC concerning the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services. The question is addressed to the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy. The Secretary of State of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Stanisław Szwed, is responsible. The question will be asked by Mrs Anna Krupka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u86	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! More than 1 million workers per year are estimated to be posted by their employers to work in another Member State of the European Union. Poland is the country from which the largest number of workers are posted throughout the Union: around 23.25% the total number of delegated posts in the European Union. It's actually about 267,000. The European Commission proposes to amend the Directive laying down the principle of posting of workers in the form of Directive 2014/67/EU of 15 May 2014 on the enforcement of Directive 96/71/EC concerning the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services. Poland has until 18 June 2016 to transpose this Directive. The changes proposed by the European Commission are of great concern. Their adoption would mean the introduction of a principle of equal pay which would probably lead to a reduction in the process of posting workers from Poland, which in turn would have negative consequences in the form of inter alia. negative impact on the small and medium-sized enterprises sector, reduced competitiveness of Polish companies and reduced resources for the development of business. Therefore, my question: What is the state of implementation of Directive 2014/67/EU of 15 May 2014 on the enforcement of Directive 96/71/EC concerning the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services? And second question, [[♪ The bell ♪]] in view of the emerging information on the planned revision of the basic directive on the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services, namely Directive 96/71/EC: What is the government's position on this issue?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u87	I would like to ask Minister Stanisław Swede for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u88	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for these questions - very important, especially today, when there is a strong debate on the directive on posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services. The first question is what we are doing today, the draft law on posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services, which aims to implement the Directive of 15 May 2014. The deadline, as has already been stated, is 18 June 2016. Following a number of consultations, the draft law was adopted by the Committee for European Affairs on 9 March 2016 and recommended to the Permanent Committee of the Council of Ministers. The adoption of the draft by the Council of Ministers is scheduled for April this year, followed by a proposal for parliamentary work. The problem that we are regulating by the Posting of Workers Act is of great importance to our country, especially because - as the Member has said in her speech - we are a country that delegates the largest group of workers. According to the ZUS data, according to the completed forms, it's about 250,000. employees, but it is estimated that up to 400 thousand. workers are now posted, this is changing periodically. Most Polish workers are posted to Germany, i.e. over 50% Delegated persons, to France, to the Benelux countries. It is also worth mentioning that around 1.9 million workers are estimated to be posted each year throughout the EU, i.e. - as you can see - a group of Poles is significant, although this is not a significant percentage of employment activity in the European Union, it is less than 1%. I will refer to the draft Posting of Workers Act. The main features of this implementation will consist of: defining the conditions of employment of posted workers in our country for the regulation in the Labour Code; defining rules for administrative cooperation; defining rules for access to information on posting of workers in our country; regulating the employer's submission of a declaration of intention to posting; introducing a criterion to assess whether the rules for posting of workers have been correct; regulating the issue of joint and several liability in the construction of the contractor ordering the performance of the service and the employer posting workers in our country; introducing rules enabling cross-border enforcement of administrative penalties and fines imposed on entrepreneurs posting workers from our country and imposing sanctions for violation of the law. The second question - I am shortening my speech due to time - is extremely important because we have not yet introduced the implementation directive. Like I said, that deadline expires in June this year. Already yesterday, the day before yesterday, on 8 March, the European Commission, some countries proposed to amend the basic Directive 96/71/EC on the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services. As for this question, what is the position of our government, there is of course no official position yet. In accordance with the rules, it will be presented in cooperation with the Council of Ministers with the Sejm and the Senate. Here, on several occasions, our government has expressed its view that the current regulations in the area of posting of workers strike the right balance between the protection of workers' rights and the principles of the internal market. Combating fraud, unfair practices are now served by the Directive adopted in 2014. It should be recalled that this took place after long and difficult negotiations which improved the implementation of this directive. All Member States are required by 18 June to implement it and to introduce new rules now is absolutely unacceptable to our government. Hence, among others. the initiatives we are taking, including a letter from Prime Minister Beata Szydło to the President of the European Commission, Mr Juncker, in which we will present our position. The Prime Minister stresses in this position that the proposed changes to posting will have a very negative impact on the situation of Polish entrepreneurs. On the one hand, they will raise the costs of services, but will also cause that many Polish companies may simply fall because of this. That is why our position is so clear. We also take initiatives from Polish employers, who in official positions strongly criticise the attempt to adopt a new directive. What is also important is that we say all the time that we need to keep these basic standards. For today's adoption of rules e.g. equal pay for the same work in the same workplace plus other powers which would result from this new directive will have an absolute negative impact on our country, especially, as the Member has already emphasised, on small and medium-sized enterprises. This is where we will be - as I have already said - the Prime Minister has been present, but also our ministry, and others who are responsible for this market - looking for allies in the countries of the European Union, [[♪ The bell ♪]] so that the implementation of this next directive, i.e. as if the revision of the previous directive, is not effective. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u89	I ask Mr Waldemar Andzel to ask for an additional question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u90	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I have a question: What professional groups will be affected by the introduction, implementation of the Posting of Workers Directive in the framework of the provision of services? At the expense of Poland, does Brussels dismantle the Community labour and services market? Does the Minister confirm that? What is the chance for a coalition of blocking countries on the implementation of the Directive? And will the Minister confirm that the proposed changes will lead to an increase in the cost of services in the European Union and will reduce the competitiveness of the EU economy as a whole? It is what is already confirmed here: changing the rules on employment conditions means moving away from the sources of the issue, i.e. freedom and the provision of services, and contradicts the sense of the adoption of that Directive and consequently leads to a genuine deprivation of the effectiveness of the freedom to provide services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u91	Thank you very much. I'm asking the Minister to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u92	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for that additional question. Of course, as I stressed in my first statement, this market for services relating to our country, as regards posted workers, is the largest in the countries of the European Union. This mainly applies to sectors such as construction, but there is also a whole range of services as well as temporary work agencies. The adoption of this directive, as if a new directive proposed by some of the countries of the European Union, will make our companies practically disappear from the markets of the European Union, simply because they will not be able to withstand competition, but also the conditions they must fulfil. This is related to other matters. It is not only a question of pay, the same pay conditions, but also other benefits that result from it. These are also to be provisions for insurance systems. So that from this position our country absolutely cannot agree to this. At the moment, we are building a coalition to defend ourselves against the revision of this directive. Once again, the Member States of the European Union must adopt the implementing directive by 18 June, which regulates these matters. I think for today, after long negotiations, that was quite a solution. We are aware that the pressure of companies, especially in countries where there are most posted workers, is also strong because of their competitiveness, but it is not about the free and competitive market to eliminate Polish companies through directives. We're ready to talk. Within the framework of this first directive, we are introducing solutions by sealing this system so that there is no pathological situation that our posted workers, I do not know, do not have paid wages or pay lower than in our country. We absolutely don't want that. Nor can we lead to such a situation that from this market, which we estimate, as I say, about 400,000. posted workers, there may remain a small number. Hence the determination we show, hence the speech by Prime Minister Beata Szydło and Minister Szymański, but also our participation in this and the talks in these countries. I had interviews with the Minister of Labour from Germany on this matter. Although there has been no convergence of positions, because this German market is one of the most important for their country, at least we have clarified a few issues about just how this is going to work. So that we hope to build a coalition like this. And if there is already a situation that this new directive would be implemented, it will have to have such records that would somehow protect Polish companies. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u93	Thank you very much. The next question, on how to take action to increase the number of trained specialists and correct how to pay resident doctors and how to support them in the process of specialisation, is addressed to the Minister of Health by Edward Siarka, Anna Milczanowska, Lydia Burzyńska and Joanna Borowiak from the Law and Justice Club. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Mr Jarosław Pinkas, will answer. Ask me a question. Mr Edward Sulphur, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u94	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I think that we have been forced to ask questions about resident doctors for years by a situation that is in the healthcare sector and which, on the part of not only patients, but also doctors, requires major changes and standardisation. In Poland, there are not many more than 3100 people starting their daily medical studies every year - this is what I have. In the last 10 years, these studies have averaged around 2.5 thousand. doctors and 850 dentists. Of this number, the doctor actually takes up 1800 new doctors, some of which are already taking up specialization outside our country's borders. In 2015, the number of doctors who expressed their willingness to work abroad increased by 25%. That's what the General Medical Board has. The doctor's work involves a long-term process of specialization. One of his stages is his residency. The form of employment of young doctors has not changed in years. They are remunerated from the Labour Fund. Continuing this situation, in particular the level of remuneration, results in serious consequences throughout the whole area of health care. Residents' doctors are these are mostly young people who enter adult life and are forced to bear the high costs associated with training and travel to these trainings, which causes a number of difficulties in life and in many cases forces them to emigrate economically. There is an urgent need to change this negative trend. The question, Minister, is: What kind of health minister is taking action to increase the number of trained specialists in general? Are adjustments foreseen in the way in which resident doctors are paid and in the form of support for them in the specialisation process? And are some forms of loyalty programmes expected to be introduced in support of the teaching process for young doctors? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u95	You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u96	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for asking that question. It's quite complicated because it's multifaceted. Ladies and gentlemen, this year will be a year of significant success - we have been able to negotiate a reception between 15 and 20% with the rectors of medical universities students more. So this success will be spectacular, of course, in six years. On the other hand, I would like to say to you that the trend of admission to studies since 2005 has been an upward trend. However, only 1 000 were adopted by 2015. more people. However, thanks to our negotiations and the provision of student teaching grants this year there will be as much as 500 more, i.e. we can suggest that in 6 years students will have much more. We will also deepen this trend through the emergence of new medical universities. This year is the year in which the University of Kielce, the University of Zielona Góra and the University of Rzeszów began their recruitment for a medical course. I would also like to inform you that the health department has decided to allow students to be educated in the medical department at the next University of Łazarski in Warsaw. We are currently having talks about the uprising, and I think they will be concluded with quite a spectacular success, the medical department at the University of Opole. So basically, all voivodship cities will have universities where doctors will be educated. I ask you, as far as the education system is concerned, this is a very complicated system. We know that our medical students graduating from medical school meet all international criteria. Our universities are accredited in the United States, so that of course there is no problem with getting a job in the West. We are actually seen as a country that educates in an excellent way. Therefore, of course, we are quite drained. However, I would like to say to you that our recent analyses show that the exit trend has slightly decreased. He is mainly connected with the fact that doctors in Poland have an increasing perspective. These perspectives are also a change in the post-graduate education system. The introduction of a modular system, which we are currently working on to modernise it, was important here. It was 2011, and at the moment we have significant experiences. These experiences come mainly from the medical community, as well as from the Postgraduate Medical Training Centre, which is the unit coordinating the training of doctors in Poland, which is the most important for obtaining the correct teaching effect. And we are going to change that in such a way that doctors are convinced that they are educated in the right number of places - where there are good learning opportunities, where there is a suitable teaching staff and that all requirements regarding, for example, the number of operations performed or proper access to the patient can be met. I would like to tell you that we are increasing the number of accredited establishments, so that we now have more than 5800, and this number is increasing systematically. Of course, they must meet very strict accreditation criteria. We have 37 303 training places right now. As regards the issue of the remuneration of residents, it is, of course, immanently linked to the budgetary resources that we have. This is such a smart policy that we have to have as many residents as possible, and that seems to be the most important thing, and of course we should provide doctors with the right means to live. This spring session is a session, I would say, extremely rich in residency, because at the moment recruitment is taking place in 1901 places. Of course, we have priorities, this priority this year is above all surgery, we lack general surgeons. Indeed, there is already a decline, which we have observed, dramatic for the functioning of hospitals in Poland. Also internal diseases, childhood cardiology, neonatology, and here these residents will be more. All vacant residents will be granted this year, those that will not be consummated, in the field of: internal diseases. We're planning to recruit for another recruitment session, which is the autumn one. This is going to be a session where the majority of residents will be in the area of internal illness. Here we just have to have a smart policy and see how many specialists we lack in specific areas. We do this, of course, together with voivodships and national consultants in particular fields. This is politics, it seems very rational, because it's based on dialogue. I mean, we don't think anything, it's just that it's dissected that we should share these residents. Of course, we also have out-of-residence places that are related to the possibility of obtaining or the willingness to obtain doctors. [[♪ The bell ♪]] by hospitals. As far as salaries are concerned, at the moment we have the situation that during the first two years of residency in priority specialisations, those I spoke about, we have 3602 PLN, after two years of residency this amount increases to 3890 PLN. In other fields of medicine it is the amount of PLN 3170 and after two years of residency - PLN 3458. Of course, with limited budget resources, we need to...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u97	Minister, maybe you can finish the answer after Mrs Joanna Borowiak has asked for an additional question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u98	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! There are numerous suggestions to parliamentarians from young doctors, trainees starting their residency, concerning disincentives for further education and occupation in the country, and this was mentioned just a moment ago. Among the factors that these doctors point out is the very way of conducting training, but also the increasing bureaucracy of the profession of doctor, excessive burden of keeping records often at the expense of acquiring opportunities for developing practical skills, which is most important for patients, for doctors themselves too, but also excessive burdening doctors with the amount of on-call duties. Often they are forced to make up to a dozen or so shifts a month, and this is an irregular issue, because there are hospitals in which 6 hours of service lasts, there are those in which 12 hours last, and there are those in which 24 hours last. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The question is therefore: Does the Ministry of Health consider regulating the conduct of the residency in such a way that the quality of education can be effectively verified, especially in the field of practical training?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u99	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u100	Thank you very much, Member, for these questions. Of course, we have taken important actions, these actions are primarily dialogue and legislative changes, so that graduates of medical faculties, as well as doctors themselves, are convinced that this specialization takes place under the right conditions, also have suitable tutors, i.e. those who teach them and who must have high professional qualifications. We're redecorating health care right now. You must know that one of the first teams that have been set up in the health department is a team that tackles absurdities in health care. As far as these absurdities are concerned, they're really synonymous with ridiculous bureaucracy. Of course, residents will also be, so to speak, profitents of all these changes. Nothing will happen without resident doctors, resident doctors have been appointed to a team that will work on changing the post-graduate education system. We want to match that with expectations, as well as with what's going on around the world. There is another system of training for doctors, and we have to face this problem. If your marshal permits and your fellow Members, I will also mention one very important element, namely we are moving away from felcherisation of medicine. The project was certainly missed by the fact that the internship was discontinued. There's not gonna be any yearbook that doesn't have an internship. Right now, we're going to proceed with the bill, and she'll be in Parliament in a moment to re-establish her post-graduate internship. During the internship the doctor will already have the right to pursue the profession under the tutor's supervision, the guardian, that is to say, he will enter the system, we will have a doctor who will have the right to pursue the profession at the place of internship, they will strengthen the system, which will significantly facilitate access to healthcare services. On the other hand, we will have the belief that the most important thing about doctor training is the quality and credibility of the doctor, the appropriate professional qualifications, the knowledge he will gain during appropriate training. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u101	Thank you very much. This question concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that information on the effects of the reform of the criminal process, which the Parliamentary Club Legal and Justice was bringing forward, will be considered at this session of the Sejm. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Please take the floor of the representative of Mr Waldemar Buda's applicants. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u102	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen! We are receiving a series of signals which show that the introduced reform of the justice system in the section on criminal proceedings - as we expected, what we have been communicating - does not work, this part of the justice system does not work. The statistics show that it is worse than before the reform itself, and the prosecutors continue to call for a change to be considered in order to make the adversarial nature of the reform more relaxed and to reverse many elements of this reform. I would like to remind you that the reform consisted in making the judge an arbitration in court proceedings, while the main issue of the dispute would concern the indictment and the prosecutor and the defender. There has therefore been a situation in which the judge is looking at the case in question, looking at the evidence supporting the prosecution and the defence evidence of the defendant. All of this is possible, all of this is acceptable, such solutions operate even in the Anglo-Saxon system, but this system has been developed for many years. We have introduced this experimental reform with a very short vacathio legis, and today we have the consequences. In July, prosecutors, as in American films, with a whole bunch of people, assistants - including office support - were found to be fighting with the best defenders, and it turns out that apart from the reform of criminal proceedings, prosecutors were not made so comfortable. So today they're in a losing position, they can't fight a defense attorney as equal, because they have 10 times more cases than those defense attorneys they're fighting, they don't have a backup camera. What's more, the result is a greater degree, because we're already expecting it... Although we don't have hard data, we're already expecting more acquittals. Certainly - I assume here the goodwill of the applicants and projectors of these changes - it was not intended that acquittals should be the result of a reform, but unfortunately such an effect could be achieved. We already know that the impact of prosecutions themselves in criminal proceedings is much smaller, it seems to be a significant percentage. So the prosecutors are afraid to press charges, they're afraid to act with as much intensity as they've done so far, because they know that the court will not be able to help them in this proceeding, they know that the court, even if it sees any irregularities or evidence, will not be able to carry it out of office, will not be able to verify it, but will be an arbitrator. Such situations take place in full application of this law. However, there are places and there are courts in which there is an approach to reform, one can say, on a step-by-step basis, i.e. part of the courts and some of the prosecutors apply this principle as if extremely, some nevertheless try to help prosecutors to a large extent, some of the courts carry out evidence of their own motion. A series of communications, a series of bad information coming from both prosecutors and courts in this area. I therefore ask the Minister to present this situation. We already have 9 months after the reform today, so it seems that we can already say more about it. Alternatively, I would very much ask you to identify those places that could actually be qualified for a possible change, a possible reform today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u103	Thank you very much. I will ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr Patrick Jaki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u104	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Seym! The fundamental amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure, which entered into force on 1 July 2015, were referred to as the reform of the so-called criminal procedure. the inter-disciplinary model of the criminal trial. Its purpose was to create the right conditions to make factual findings on the basis of the outcome of the dispute brought before the parties before the court, and in fact it caused the application of the overriding principle of factually correct findings and the actual location in a more favourable procedural situation of wealthier or more operational individuals. The current model of the process overrides the principle of adversariality in relation to the principle of material truth, while marginalising the active role of the court, which, due to its impartiality, can and should, in such proceedings, act as a guarantor both of the individual's powers and of the effectiveness of the conduct in terms of achieving its objectives, and in particular of the appropriate criminal response, the High Sejm. The formal obligation to seek the truth does not correspond to the right of the court to allow and carry out evidence of its own motion only in exceptional cases justified by special circumstances. Moreover, the courts can demonstrate a variety of evidence activities, which, in the light of the statutory ban on the imposition of pleas in law concerning the initiative of evidence of a court acting ex officio, adds to the possibility of unequal unfair treatment of the parties by different courts in the same situations. Indeed, it is completely in line with the applicable regulations both to demonstrate absolute passiveness by the formation of the court as regards the evidence initiative and to carry out all evidence ex officio by the court without looking at the evidence requests submitted by the parties. The full adversariality introduced by the latest novel leads to situations in which the court decides only on the basis of the evidence submitted by the parties, and does not seek to establish the true state of affairs. This results in the primacy of the principle of judicial truth, i.e. the party that will convince the court to its own merits, regardless of what it looks like, will win the trial. There is also no need for great insight to determine who will be better found in the thicket of regulations and evidence. Of course, those who are better placed, the High Sejm, which will additionally afford to hire the best defenders and conduct a costly process. However, this does not have much to do with the principle of truth, equality and equal treatment of all defendants. According to the applicable rules, the prosecutor must not only conduct or supervise the investigation, but also carry out all the evidence in these cases before the court, i.e. Interrogate witnesses, read documents. It should be borne in mind that the system introduced poses a great challenge for the organisation of the prosecutor's office and may even paralyze its work. It is not only that the level of the prosecutor's procedural responsibilities has been significantly increased while maintaining the organisation of the institution, but also that the prosecution's cases go to different courts in different formations, which in fact makes it impossible for him to participate in the judicial stage in the cases he is conducting. The consequence of such defective establishment of the procedural activity of the participants in the proceedings - setting, I apologize - the consequence of such defective setting of the procedural activity of the participants in the proceedings is a much greater risk of issuing an unfair judgment acquittal by the court, i.e. to the person who actually committed the crime. Any shortcomings, even if purely formal, on the part of the prosecutor will result in a failure by him to prove his cause and thus release from criminal liability, the High Sejm. In view of the short period since the entry into force of the amendment on 1 July 2015, there is no statistical data on this subject, but the public statements of the members of the previous codification committee, which estimated the rate of acquittal in cases recognised in the adversarial model at issue at around 30%, while the inquisition model did not exceed 2%. The decisive primacy of the principle of adversariality in the proceedings in the courts has led the proceedings to be used, in accordance with the current wording of the law, only to obtain evidence to the extent necessary to establish the merits of bringing an indictment or other termination of proceedings, meaning that the obligation to clarify the case in a comprehensive manner at this stage is waived. Such a role of the preparatory procedure in the criminal trial system has led to the introduction by the legislator of detailed formal requirements which must be met by prosecutions and other prosecutors' complaints. Dividing evidence into groups, describing every evidence in the indictment, rigorous interpretation by the courts of conditions that must meet the thesis of evidence, makes it more frequent for the courts to decide to return prosecutions to the prosecutor. Those orders are not subject to judicial review by a higher court in accordance with the general principle, but are subject only to judicial review by a court competent to settle the case, i.e. in which the Judge making the return is held. According to incomplete data from the Public Prosecutor's Office for 2015 due to formal deficiencies, prosecutors - and here's a remark, High Izbo - about 3,000. cases. Finally, the assessment of the existing regulations on so-called changes cannot be overlooked. Consensual termination of criminal proceedings. It can be said without exaggeration that the authors of the consensus novel have made the procedure based on procedural agreements an alternative way of dealing with, sometimes very serious, criminal cases. It is not only that they have allowed such an opportunity for all without exception the crimes provided for in the Penal Code, including the most serious crimes, that I will mention here murders, rapes with particular cruelty, but that is why they have introduced a stand-alone condition for extraordinary relief of punishment. Consequently, in the event of such a request being taken into account, the court shall not carry out any evidence proceedings and may, in respect of offences, deal with the whole matter at the hearing. On the other hand, it is a stand-alone condition for an extraordinary relief of punishment, e.g. The mere fact that the perpetrator of a murder committed for a minimum of eight years imprisonment of between 1 month and 7 years and 11 months is that he has applied for punishment without taking evidence. There can't be an agreement to this kind of thing. As a result, in the second half of 2015, approximately 1/3 of the cases were concluded in the preparatory proceedings for the application of a constitutional penalty, while the year before that was only 15%. In turn in absolute numbers, i.e. Despite the absence of significant changes in the level of influence of prosecution cases, there was a marked decrease in the number of indictments brought before the court: in the second half of 2015, it was 74 000. cases, and the year before - up to 115 thousand. matters, High Sejm. Similarly, it should be pointed out that the Article is incomprehensible from the point of view of the principles of a fair criminal response. 59a of the Penal Code. In fact, it provides for compulsory remission of criminal proceedings against the perpetrators of certain offences at the request of the victim. There is no need for great imagination to say that the mechanism adopted is not enough to ensure that the perpetrators of many cases are not punished, it still leads to the possibility of many abuses related to the unauthorised influence of perpetrators or criminal groups on the victims in order to induce them to make such requests. The negative, harmful to public order and order, the fight against crime and the security of the public, the consequences of the entry into force of the so-called. Therefore, the adversarial novel to the Code of Criminal Procedure must be reversed as soon as possible. The government has therefore taken a legislative initiative in this area and today the High House will proceed with an appropriate amendment to restore the previously existing inquisition process model to ensure that the findings of the procedural authorities are consistent with the material truth, of course with the active role of the court, which is of great importance in terms of the results of the process, which has clearly shown these statistics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u105	Thank you, Minister. I would like to inform you that Members of the debate have come forward. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the floor? I can't see. So I'm closing the list. Ten people were on that list. So I'm opening a discussion. Let me remind you that speaking time is two minutes. I would like to ask you, Mr Richard Bartosik, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u106	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! Since the introduction of the reform from the legal background, it has been reported that the reform has led to different courts and regions of the proceedings being conducted. In some cases, the court does not take any legal action with full consequence and is merely an arbitrators, and in others nothing has changed and the burden of the proceedings of the evidence rests on the judges. Does such differentiation not adversely affect the image of justice and the assessment of its professionalism?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u107	Mr Arkadiusz Myrch, Civic Platform Club. [[I don't have a microphone. I'll go to the podium.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u108	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Speaking only briefly to the Minister's speech, I regret that it was largely based on certain generalities, on certain theoretical cases showing possible risks, but it was not about what we are really dealing with in criminal proceedings at the moment. Well, three years ago, a revolutionary reform of criminal proceedings was prepared. It was the result of consultation with many communities, such as judges, prosecutors or scientists. As indicated in the opinion commissioned by the Sejm Analysis Office by Professor Kazimierz Zbrzyzek University of Silesia, a coherent project was presented internally, with a well-thought-out and well-founded structure, prognosis of a clear and coherent set of standards for determining - as we hope - the sustainability resulting from the adoption of the draft code. The aim of the reform was primarily to improve criminal proceedings, in particular by eliminating double evidentiary proceedings. It is justified to carry it out at the stage of the preliminary investigation, since it ends either by drawing up an indictment or by withdrawing the proceedings in question. The provision of a judge in a manner similar to that of the prosecutors disrupts his procedural role as an institution assessing the behaviour of the parties. I've got two minutes. Here is a comment to the applicant: there are provisions allowing for ex officio proceedings, so it is not completely excluded. [[♪ The bell ♪]] My question concerns the sphere of operation of the police, because in this respect the reform has also introduced a wide range of changes. Namely, since January 2015, an electronic record of investigative activities has been in place and I would like to ask a question...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u109	Mr President, finish up.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u110	I'm almost done, Marshal. I would like to ask the question: How is this register assessed by police officers and the Ministry, and to what extent did it improve the functioning of investigations? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u111	I would like to ask you another question by Mrs Andżelika Możjanowska, a club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u112	Good morning. Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! However, I am not surprised at the generals because a new solution for criminal proceedings was introduced in July 2015. It was preceded by almost two years of work by outstanding experts in criminal law. But it's only been eight months. After such a short period of time, it is extremely difficult to properly assess the functioning of these new solutions. However, I am not surprised at the subject of today's current information, because in two hours you will be pushing for an amendment that reverses the difficult consensus on the criminal procedure. Your amendment introduces the possibility of illegal eavesdropping on the basis of which the processes will be conducted, and this is the main change. In addition, as indicated in the applicant's explanatory memorandum, prosecutors are afraid to press charges. How does the Minister feel about these terms? Answer me: Why has such a large group of prosecutors decided to leave the profession and why do you send inconvenient prosecutors to the other end of Poland? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u113	I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Anna April, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u114	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! For months we have been hearing about the paralysis of criminal proceedings in connection with the reform introduced in July last year by the coalition of PO and PSL. My question is therefore: How did the change of procedure affect the number of indictments brought? If it is true that the number of acts has fallen, then please indicate what has contributed to this. [[Consensualism. But it's good that she fell.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u115	Another question, another statement - Mr Wojciech Wilk, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u116	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the impression that the government's activities by Prime Minister Beata Szydło, including the Ministry of Justice, are bouncing down the reforms introduced by the Government of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party - not because the reforms introduced are bad or do not produce the expected results, but precisely because they were introduced by the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party. This is not a good change in the exercise of the Law and Justice, but rather a change of whatever, a change for the change itself. And that, in my opinion, is the point of trying to reverse the reform of the criminal process introduced last year, and we are dealing with this situation, because in a few moments, in a few hours, we will debate in the second reading of the government draft law on the amendment of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which concerns this. Let me remind you that we're talking about a procedure that started a few months ago. The question is, and I would like to ask the Minister whether you believe that this is sufficient time for this new procedure to be properly assessed. Isn't it that you assumed in advance that it was wrong and that it should be changed? I would like to remind you that the implementation of this reform of the criminal process itself lasted 2 years, preceded by a number of preparations, followed by concrete measures. I'd like to ask the Minister what's the rush. In your opinion, in view of the measures involved, should it not wait at least one year from the date of entry into force of the Reform Act and only then, on the basis of hard data, should it be assessed? And one last question. Aren't you afraid that the reversal of the changes introduced in 2015 and the introduction of those announced will actually lead to chaos in the Polish justice system and will adversely affect the work of judges, [[♪ The bell ♪]] U.S. attorneys, attorneys, or in the proceedings themselves? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u117	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mrs Bernadet Krynicka, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u118	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The current criminal procedure has been in force since July 2015. It changed the whole philosophy of conducting the trial into an adversarial model. So I have a question for you. Is it true that comments are made that after the reform, criminal proceedings favour the accused with a wealthy wallet? It means that those who rent... [[No.]] ...Dear lawyers, experts or even use detective offices, no longer having a judge against each other, but only the prosecutor, are able to exonerate more defendants, and the incompetent defendant who is using public defender's help is more difficult in this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u119	Thank you very much. Mrs. Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u120	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The reform of the criminal procedure introduced by the Civic Platform and PSL provides inter alia. legal assistance to citizens already at the stage of the preparatory procedure and thereafter during the judicial process. Every citizen has the right to such assistance regardless of his or her material situation. This is a very good solution for Poles, because the participation of the defender at the preparatory stage not only allows to clarify all aspects of the case, but also reduces the time of legal proceedings. I would like to remind you that before the reform, legal aid could only be used in legal proceedings and that it was only for those in material difficulties. I have a question about statistics. How often do citizens benefit from the help of a defender in the preparatory phase and how does this help speed up judicial proceedings? Why does the PiS take away the right to defend Poles at the preparatory stage, which is harmful to Poles? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u121	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Stanisław Pieta, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u122	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! There are voices that the changes in the criminal procedure proposed by the government by Prime Minister Beata Szydło are supposed to hit fundamental rights and civil liberties. I would like to ask: Does respect for material truth affect fundamental rights and civil liberties? Does respect for the victim of a crime affect fundamental civil rights? I would like to know if the proposed change will not strengthen the position of prosecutors, because we are informed that the procedure adopted in July ub. r. reduces the possibility of carrying out appropriate evidence proceedings, weakens the position of the prosecutor's office. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u123	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u124	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It seems that today's topic of current information is an expression of disrespect for the participants in the criminal trial - judges, prosecutors, lawyers who have devoted their time to learning a new model of the criminal trial. The implementation of a new criminal trial model was a necessary step in a democratic state of law. It equals the chances of both sides of the process and gives hope for a fair judgment. One of the successes of the reform is that there has been an increase in the number of cases completed by the prosecution by approving the agreement between the perpetrator and the victim. In 2015, more than 70% ended up like this. cases, the trend is still increasing. This is one of the reasons for reducing the number of indictments brought before the courts. Minister, I have a question. The proposed amendments refer to the application of temporary detention only on the basis that a criminal offence is punishable by a severe penalty, but any decision indicating the offence committed by the accused before a final judgment is brought may be considered as a breach of the presumption of innocence. I don't really understand: Is this the good change? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u125	Thank you very much. And the next question will be asked by Bożena Kamińska, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u126	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The previous reform of the Civic Platform - PSL coalition has broadened the possibilities for consensusal termination of criminal proceedings, i.e. ending the criminal process on the basis of a concerted statement by the parties, so-called. consensus. This involved minor crimes when the perpetrator pleads guilty and wants to communicate with the victim. These cases did not go to court and thus relieved the courts, which could deal with more difficult criminal cases. This solution gave an opportunity to improve criminal proceedings. Minister, I have a question: How much has the number of cases increased since 1 July 2015 at the stage of referral to court, and how many cases of murder and rape have been resolved consensually? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u127	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of the representative of Mr Waldemar Buda's applicants. You're welcome. Excuse me, Mr Wróblewski, that's correct. Excuse me, sir, and I'm already asking you to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u128	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today's discussion shows that the reform of the criminal process was not properly prepared by the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party coalition in 2015. Contrary to the calls of the environment, among others. The prosecutors, however, have made some significant changes in criminal proceedings, perhaps even revolutionary. As a result, there has been a decrease in the effectiveness of prosecution proceedings. Hence numerous signals from the legal community, but also from citizens about the need to withdraw from the reform or at least limit the scope of change. The specific examples of weaknesses in the mechanisms of the adversarial criminal process were discussed in more detail by Minister Patryk Jak. I think he's gonna come up with some questions. He also pointed out the recent changes made by the Sejm to ensure that the judge was again not only an arbiter but also an active participant in the proceedings. Mr Arkadiusz Myrch pointed out that the reform was prepared by prominent lawyers. I do not question the legal skills of these people, but it is necessary to distinguish low-end books from low-end actions. In other words, one thing is what we think, often as a result of abstract speculation, is the experience of specific people in the Seym. Mr Wojciech Wilk from the Civic Platform asks whether the decision to withdraw from the reform is not premature. You can ask such questions, which I will say in a moment's time, but I believe that a more important element is the question whether the reform that was carried out last year, axiologically corresponds to the foundations of the Polish constitution, our legal order, our legal tradition. After all, in my view it is not perfect institutional solutions, but another factor determines the negative assessment of the reform of the Civic Platform and PSL. Departing from the principle of material truth further weakens the position of the victims. The activities of the courts are laid down in Article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 1 Constitution as a justice system - the justice system, not the law, not the application of the law. This is a clear axiological indication for the legislator and the entire public authority. The courts may not be officials who use the law without a heart. The primary objective must remain to establish the truth and at the same time to assess the circumstances of the case and to make a fair ruling.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u129	Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr Patrick Jaki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u130	Dear Marshal! High Seym! I will try to answer in full all the questions of the ladies and gentlemen who, I hope, have been able to write. Question one, Mr Bartosik: Do judges in different regions use different models? Is that true? Yeah, that's right. We have a lot of information that judges behave actively in some regions, trying to reach the material truth, while in other regions they adopt a traditional model of conduct for the adversarial process. And indeed, in our view, this is a deep pathology of the previous changes. Mr Myrcha accused the government side of using only a theoretical model, not numbers. [[Often.]] I would like to point out that from the data of the Prosecutor-General's Office, and from the data of the previous Prosecutor-General, Mr President, it appears that in the second half of 2015 about 1/3 of the cases ended in pre-trial proceedings with proposals for a constitutional penalty, while the year before it was only 15%. [[That's a good change. Good.]] However, in absolute figures, despite the absence of significant changes in the level of influence of cases to the prosecution, the number of indictments brought before the court clearly decreased. In the second half of 2015, it was... [[But it's okay.]] ... 74,000. cases, and the year before that as many as 115 thousand. cases. At the same time, I would like to inform you that, according to the data of the Public Prosecutor's Office for 2015 due to formal deficiencies, approximately 3 000 have been returned to prosecutors. what needs to be highlighted most and most strongly. Mrs Możjanowska asked why such a large number of prosecutors left. This is not the subject of today's discussion, but I can share here with the High House my assessment that the basic change in the prosecution was that every prosecutor under the new law received his paper. In view of the above, as so far, about 40% The prosecutors didn't work on the line, I mean. they were involved in control functions, training functions, and there were people every 20 years who didn't see the toga, so now everyone will have to have, as I mentioned, their paper and everyone will have to work on the line. This may have been one of the reasons, but additionally high retirement payments, which, if the prosecutor had made such a decision now, would have been given to such a prosecutor, very high checks, which the media were talking about, and pensions. Mrs April asked about the number of indictments. We'd like to inform you that this number has dropped by 1/3. Mr Wolf asked if there was enough time to assess this reform as to whether it was our conviction. We answer here in two ways, i.e. First of all, we believe that we are already able to assess how the interdisciplinary model works, including. quoting you the statistics I was just talking about, but this is also our conviction, the High Sejm, that this design of the counter-dactical model was based on flawed assumptions, namely the assumption that the dispute is more important than the truth. That's why we're making this change. Mrs Krynicka asked if it is true that the previous model favours the rich. I can say that in the opinion of the Ministry of Justice, yes, that's true. If the trial began to focus on the dispute between the lawyer and the prosecutor in the absence of an active role of the court and the pursuit of material truth, then there is necessarily an advantage to the one who is able to hire a better lawyer. Mrs Czernow asked about the defence in the preparatory proceedings. Here I would like to stress that nothing has changed in our proposal, but as far as judicial proceedings are concerned, the right to defenders will have people who are not wealthy. Mr Pięta asked about the status, the role of prosecutor. We would like to stress that it will not change in this proposal, but that there will certainly be such a deformity of the prosecutor's work. Therefore, this will certainly have a significant impact on the work of the prosecutor. Mrs Płępek asked about the use of temporary detention. We would like to stress that the application of temporary detention because of the high risk of punishment is in line with the European Convention on Human Rights, and, which is extremely important and worth emphasising, is in line with the Strasburg case law. Finally, Mrs Kaminska's question: How many cases have gone to court? She hasn't increased, she's decreased significantly. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u131	Thank you very much, Minister. This statement concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. Before proceeding to the next point, I declare a 10-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 13 min. 59 hours 14 min 15]] Ladies and gentlemen, the session is resumed. We proceed with the examination of item 13. of the agenda: Report from the Extraordinary Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure Act and some other laws (prints No 207 and 276). I ask Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u132	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present a report by the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications of the Government bill amending the Code of Criminal Procedure Act and some other laws, print No 207. The Extraordinary Commission for Codification Changes set up a subcommittee and after considering this draft law at its meetings on 11 and 25 February this year. submit a report to the High House. Thirty-six amendments were adopted during the work. They concerned both part of the preliminary procedure and judicial proceedings, changes in criminal law and trade union laws, among others. in the Law on the System of General Courts. I will discuss some of these amendments, I think that also those that arouse the greatest controversy or even emotions. Among these more important amendments is the one concerning the subsidy procedure in the case of a case initiated on the basis of an indictment brought by the defendant and the appointment of a prosecutor who has become a public prosecutor. Then, as you know, the proceedings are based on public prosecutions. Where an indictment is withdrawn by a public prosecutor, the agreement of the victim who filed the indictment shall be required, and such provision shall be made in Article. 55 § 4 k.p.k. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced 4 and 5 the principle of not placing personal data, the place of residence and the place of work of the victims and witnesses involved in the activities has been waived where witnesses are known to the suspect; then there is no need for additional activities in this regard. The Article provision has also been corrected. 249a § 1 which provides: The basis for a decision on the application or extension of a provisional arrest may be merely the findings made on the basis of the evidence disclosed to the defendant and his defender, evidence from the testimony of the witnesses referred to in Article. 250 § 2b. The court, prioritising the prosecutor, shall also take into account the circumstances which the prosecutor has not disclosed, after their disclosure at the hearing, if they are of benefit to the accused. Such evidence and circumstances may give rise to a decision on the application or extension of the provisional arrest. There was also an amendment to the article. The Court of Justice of the European Union held that the Court of Justice of the European Union held that the Court of Justice of the European Union held that the Court of Justice of the European Union held that the Court of Justice of the European Union held that the Court of Justice of the European Union held that the Court of Justice of the European Union held that the Court of Justice of the European Union held that the Court of Justice of the European Union did not have jurisdiction in respect of a case before the Court of Justice of the European Union, and that the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Court of Justice of the European Union had jurisdiction in respect of a case before the Court of Justice of Justice of the European Union, and that the Court of Justice of Justice of the European Union, in so far as it held that the Court of Justice of Justice of the European Union did not have jurisdiction in If the investigation has ended in the form of an investigation, the indictment may not contain a justification. It follows from the provision presented a contrario that the obligation to justify the indictment concerns a preliminary investigation and that the justification for the indictment is optional as far as the investigation is concerned. The provision in Article 1 is also amended. 1 point 132 § 2 of the term "State Officer' as "Public Officer', as this term is known in the Penal Code in the vocabulary of statutory terms in Article. 115. Article 2 is amended as follows: Where point 13 has been deleted and Article 7 has been introduced. 10 where the title of Chapter 6 has been given the following wording: Experts and the wording of Article has been inserted: 157a: The expert shall benefit from the legal protection provided for by public officials in connection with the performance of the activities resulting from the consultation order. The work of an expert or translator or valuer has also been validated in the event of an incorrect opinion or translation being drawn up or presented, which is to serve as evidence in the proceedings. For this is the foreseen sanction, the sentence of imprisonment from 1 to 10 years, and in the case of the perpetrator of the act referred to in § 4, who acts unintentionally and harms the public or private interests - the sentence of imprisonment up to 3 years old. Intertemporal rules have also been introduced. It's about art. 59a of the Penal Code. That's what we call it. restitution remission with the consent of the victim and the accused in the event of these minor offences. Such a situation could take place under the government of the provisions in force since 1 July 2015, but it is worth noting here that this provision has been repealed by this amendment and, of course, requires inter-temporal rules, because such proceedings can take place. As regards vacathio legis, the initial date of entry into force of the Act was 1 April 2016. It shall be proposed on 15 April with the exception of Article. Points 4, 8 and 108, which are to enter into force on 1 January 2017. These provisions concern matters relating to the drawing of judges and the date of the impact of cases on judges. Since this is an absolute appeal in this draft submitted to the government, a regulation should also be issued in this respect. I would like to stress that the draft regulation is ready and attached to the draft submission. However, it will take a certain period of time for this Regulation to enter into force earlier, and in this respect these provisions will apply from 1 January 2017. As regards the cases which raised the greatest doubts, namely the repeal of the Article. 168a.k.a., I would like to stress that the Extraordinary Commission accepted the amendment and introduced an additional wording of the article. 168b c.p.k. And so art. 168a would thus be regarded as inadmissible only on the ground that it was obtained in breach of the provisions of the procedure or by means of a prohibited act referred to in Article. 1 § 1 of the Penal Code, unless the evidence has been obtained in connection with the performance of public service duties by an official as a result of: murder, intentional injury to the health or imprisonment. Art. 168b c.p.k. is replaced by the following: if, as a result of operational control ordered at the request of the competent authority under specific rules, evidence has been obtained of the person to whom the operational control was applied, of another criminal offence pursued by the Office or of a tax offence other than that covered by the Ordinance, the prosecutor shall decide on the use of this evidence in criminal proceedings. High Izbo! It is worth noting here that the last sentence is that it is the prosecutor who decides to use this evidence in criminal proceedings and the prosecutor will assess whether this is really the case. It's not like it's automatic. The decision will in any case be the prosecutor's. Let's say, High Izbo, such a situation that there is a provision for operational control against a particular person who is suspected of a drug trafficking crime, and on this occasion, it can be clearly established that this person not only deals with drugs but also with excise goods, e.g. alcohol or cigarettes, which happens very often, especially in border voivodships, but not only. Should law enforcement leave this crime without any action in this situation? Should such a perpetrator also be held liable? The projectors consider that, in this particular situation, the decision should be taken by the prosecutor who conducts the proceedings, and the court will decide whether or not, in this particular case, to allow such evidence, or not to allow it, to be dismissed under the procedure laid down by law. High Izbo! These are basically all the most important amendments. They are of course less important. I think that's where I'm gonna conclude my report. On behalf of the Extraordinary Commission, I ask the High House to support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u133	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. I will ask Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u134	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I present my position on the submission of a bill amending the Code of Criminal Procedure and other laws. The implementation of a specific criminal policy, expressed both in procedural and substantive provisions governing the principles of criminal liability, falls under the full responsibility of the legislator, which is limited in this respect only by the guarantee standards of the Constitution and the sources of international law. The current legislator, with a mandate to shape this policy from the sovereign, chooses specific solutions, has the right to do so. Law and Justice opposed at every stage of the legislative process the amendments made in the Law of 27 September 2013 and in the February 2015 Act. It announced a return to the priority dominance of the principle of material truth as expressed in the article. 2 § 2 k.p.k. on the principle of adversariality in the electoral programme, setting out the main assumptions during the campaign. The arguments that this change is too fast, because only 8 months have passed since the entry into force of the new rules, are not true. We believe that it is a waste of time for the current rules to continue to function. These changes are thoughtful and complex. They relate to the entry into force of the new Act on the Prosecutor's Office after more than 30 years of operation of the Peerel Act of 1985. The hierarchy of the prosecutor's office and the personal union of the Attorney General and the Minister of Justice have been restored. Finally, the military prosecutor's office was eliminated as a relic from the Polish People's Republic. All prosecutors can finally pursue crimes, carry out activities in preparatory proceedings to a much greater extent than before. You should not be afraid of orders from prosecutors to carry out the proceedings of subordinates. They'll be published in writing. There will be full transparency of hierarchicality, not oral pressure without any documentation. That's a novel, K.P.K. gives prosecutors the opportunity to prosecute crimes more effectively. Prosecutors from the superior units of the working time allocated to visits and training of their subordinates will manage specific activities in the preparatory proceedings. We have many young and capable prosecutors. Let's give them a chance to prove themselves. They'll be able to get a career promotion faster. That is why it is necessary for this law to enter into force as soon as possible. Proposed deadline - 15 April. The vast majority of practitioners have applied the provisions of the 1997 Penal Code and the 1997 Penal Procedure Code for many years until 30 June 2015. It is a rule that judicial applicants, prosecutors, lawyers, counselors pass the exam according to the rules of the date of the exam. The final exams took place in the first half of last year. This year, it was just the bailout exams. The amendment introduces the necessary corrections in the preparatory and judicial proceedings, access to the file in the arrest procedure on the provisions on preventive measures, including on the strictest measure, the temporary arrest, and thus return to the content of the article. § 258 (2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Other changes concerning the defendant and the right of defence are also being made. Changes within consensus modes are also, as well as changes in the rules for determining the formation of the court, the new wording of the Article. 351 § 1 k.p.k., changes concerning appeal proceedings - here these changes are as low as possible, because basically there are maintained models of appeal proceedings from the September 2013 novel - the new chapter 55a k.p.k., a new appeal measure: an action against the judgment of the appeal court, but it is worth noting here that only in the cases referred to in the article. Article 439 (1) concerns absolute grounds of appeal. High Izbo! I'd like to make four more amendments to your marshal's hands, and please, the High House. [[♪ The bell ♪]] to support the Government's submission of prints Nos 207 and 276. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u135	Thank you very much. And to speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I ask Mr Arkadiusz Myrcha. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u136	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In spring 2013, a draft of one of the largest reforms of the Code of Criminal Procedure was launched in the Sejm for 6 years. After 6 months of parliamentary work, including the operation of a special emergency committee, a model was developed not only to meet the current challenges of criminal proceedings, but also to eliminate many of the procedures that have been growing over the years to prevent a smooth investigation of the case. One of the main elements of this major reform was the introduction of so strongly criticised by the authors of the so-called law. rules of adversariality. Its purpose was to change the procedural role of the court from the investigating body, which conducts the investigation, to the role of the arbitration panel, which settles between the parties at issue, which are the prosecutor and the accused in the criminal proceedings. This amendment was a response to the shortcomings of the previous model of criminal proceedings, namely the duplication of investigations. On the one hand, the investigation, which was conducted by the prosecution or the police, sought to clarify the circumstances of the case as comprehensively as possible and to safeguard the evidence for the court, and on the other hand, the entire investigation of evidence was repeated in the course of legal proceedings. This evidently resulted in an unnecessary extension of the entire procedure on several occasions. Several months of operation of the new system showed where adjustments should be made. With such an extensive change, mistakes are inevitable, which are only visible at the stage of application of the law. However, the direction conferred by the 2013 Act was right and fully justified. Therefore, it cannot be agreed with the allegations made by the authors of the draft law that the introduction of the principle of adversariality constitutes an obstacle to the investigation of the truth in court. This is evident and unfortunately intentional abuse. The fundamental principle of material truth, or decision on the basis of actual facts, is found in the current Code of Criminal Procedure. The proposal to return to the so-called model should therefore be negatively assessed. Inquisition proceedings in which the court takes full responsibility for the outcome of the process and thus becomes an active participant in the proceedings. With this principle, it corresponds to the new wording of the article proposed in the draft law. 167, namely the introduction of an unlimited initiative of evidence of the court. It should therefore be recognised that the Law and Justice propose a return to a solution which could result in a breach of the principle of impartiality of the court. It is also negative to assess the proposal for a new content of the Article. 168a and Art. 168b Code of Criminal Procedure, which introduces the possibility of carrying out and using evidence obtained for the purpose of criminal proceedings by means of a criminal offence, because these provisions correlate with the highly controversial law on the prosecution recently adopted by the Supreme Chamber. In the present form, they provide a certain assurance that no illegal act, no illegal wiretap or provocation can prove to anyone that they are being accused. The sad experiences in 2005 and 2007 show that such a provision is necessary. Unfortunately, the Law and Justice which entrusted the supervision of special services to Mariusz Kaminski, and the administration of the prosecutor's office to Minister Ziobra, felt that this fuse might be difficult for them to implement criminal policy. Therefore, it is impossible not to recall the two recently adopted laws, which are extremely important from the point of view of this project. It is about the Police Act, i.e. the so-called. Surveillance, and the D.A.'s Attorney's Law Act. Thus, removing illegal evidence from the code creates a picture of a reality in which few people want to find themselves. A negative assessment should be made of the proposal for changes in the award of the defender ex officio as described in Article. 78 and Article 7 (1) (a) (ii) and (iii) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council 80a Code of Criminal Procedure. Well, the Law and Justice Reform provided the possibility of obtaining a defender for a suspect, that is, already at the stage of police or prosecutorial proceedings. This is extremely important, because that's when the first hearings, the examination of evidence and the imposition of charges occur. According to the proposed bill, this entitlement is abolished. Thus, only the person who can afford to pay a professional lawyer will be able to count on the lawyer. Free assistance will only be available at the stage of legal proceedings, i.e. after the indictment has been prepared. It's a clear hit on the citizen's right to a fair defense. It is also critical to refer to the proposal to delete the article. 59a of the Penal Code, whose application is positively assessed. It gives the possibility to cancel the proceedings even before the start of the court case and, what is important, only at the request of the victim. Making the ideology that this provision serves the rich to buy their own innocence is, in principle, dishonest and puts this necessary and useful institution in a false light. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Finally, I would like to make it clear that the reverse of the reform will be a step backwards. The judicial and judicial system is not a playground where toys can be changed every now and then. This is a particular area of functioning of a state that clearly requires peace, reason and evolutionary change. Any other way will cause the most suffering to those whose courts are to defend, i.e. Polish citizens. The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club shall amend the report presented. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u137	Thank you very much. Please speak on behalf of the Kukiz Poselski Club15 by Mr Jerzy Jachnik. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u138	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, at first reading, we have pointed out that the contents of the Code of Criminal Procedure, just before 2007, as later after the changes, both now and no matter whether it is adversarial or inquisition, there is no greater significance for the efficiency of the proceedings and for the explanation of the material truth. The way in which criminal proceedings are conducted, in particular the way in which they are conducted, as well as the process of judicial proceedings, must change. The Kukiz Club15 focused first and foremost on a number of basic issues: the participation of NGOs, recording from the stage of the preparatory proceedings, the transparency of the meetings, the limitation of the possibility of psychiatric research through the introduction of a complaint, as this is already a judicial plague. Yet, the Code of Criminal Procedure is not only a preliminary investigation within the prosecution, but also judicial proceedings. We have been paying attention to the order of assignment of cases, because, as the Code of Criminal Procedure provides, this may be the reason for the appeal, or appeal, in the proposed law. Unfortunately, this case is also unclear, and none of you will find out in court who and how he assigned the case. The same is true when it comes to equality between the parties in cassation proceedings. Well, there's a clearly privileged prosecutor who can make all the cancellations he wants. On the other hand, a citizen, accused, who e.g. He's on probation, he's not gonna file it once. Ladies and gentlemen, in this situation, we can only thank Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz for his great contribution to the committee, because he has actually put a lot of work into it and in the subcommittee and in the committee. We can also thank Mr Marcin Warcho for his willingness and contribution to work, but unfortunately, in addition to this, he has done nothing about changes to the Code of Criminal Procedure. Nothing. The Code of Criminal Procedure resembles the content of this pre-change procedure, supplemented by things that are convenient, and articles that are convenient only for the prosecution. And this is just the first step in the process. Ladies and gentlemen, the trials are going on, and I've been saying this for years. Not because there is such a Code of Criminal Procedure or such Code of Criminal Procedure, but the trials go on for years because judges run for several dozens of cases, often after several hundred cases and are unable to prepare for these cases. I'm far from defending judges, but whoever does a lawyer's job or is a defendant in court or a plaintiff or a defendant knows perfectly well that as many times as he reads a file, he will always find something in them. So the court cannot function in such a way that the trial begins, there are three months of breaks or four months of breaks, there is another trial, in the meantime there are 30 other cases, 20 other provisions, 10 other judgments, because you are unable to find out the material truth. That's why later the courts simulate the proceedings. We paid attention to this at first reading, in the subcommittee. Unfortunately, it's like hitting a steel or concrete wall with a rock. This is the aim of the bill's designer and this goal is only achieved. Therefore, in view of the above, the fact that there has been no change of mindset in the conduct of the trial has not been taken into account in the Code of Criminal Procedure and the participation of non-governmental organisations and the publicity of the proceedings before the courts, the Kukiz Club15 will not support this proposal and makes six amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u139	Thank you, sir. And to speak on behalf of the Poselski Club A modern request from Mr Mirosław Pampuch. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u140	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! I was honored to present on behalf of the Poselski Club a modern position towards the government draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, in principle a report on the work that was on the committee. Of course, all discussions on improving the criminal procedure are most appropriate, but this cannot be done to the detriment of citizens and without constructive discussion on this subject. Nor must the desire for change be due to the top-down belief that what is already in force is wrong and incorrect, so it should be changed. The quality of the draft amendment, which we are looking at, is demonstrated not only by the negative assessments of the legal groups, i.e. the National Judicial Council, the Supreme Court, the National Chamber of Legal Counsels or the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights, but also by the amendments tabled by the government party during the work in committee and subcommittee. The subcommittees worked together on 44 amendments tabled by the government. So are we dealing with a properly prepared legislative proposal? It is worrying that, despite clearly indicating the objective of the draft, the amendment contains a number of solutions which have absolutely no bearing on the restoration of the previous model of the criminal procedure. These changes do not serve the good of citizens, and their true purpose is nothing more than the introduction of a police state model. How else can the deletion of the rules on the judicial review of classified surveillance be specified? It's nothing more than legalizing illegal eavesdropping in the majesty of the law. Such action violates the fundamental standards of the democratic rule of law and constitutes a large area of abuse. This is a prosecutor, and not, as yet, the court will decide whether the evidence of a crime other than the one under covert surveillance can be used in other proceedings. It won't matter if the crime that was exposed is serious enough that surveillance could be unacceptable at all. The decision of the prosecutor on this subject will be entirely arbitrary and will not be subject to any verification. The question remains, therefore, what the government was guided by, resigning from the so-called. judicial review of the follow-up and retention of interviews by means of operational actions for the arbitrary decision of a prosecutor dependent on the executive authority. Isn't this the consequence of combining the role of Minister of Justice and the Attorney General, who has unlimited instruments to decide on the course of criminal proceedings? There is one thing that we can say for sure: this action has nothing to do with a fair trial and is against the right to protect private life and freedom and the protection of the confidentiality of communication. It is also surprising to note that the evidence obtained in violation of the law or by means of a prohibited act, so-called. the fruit of the poisoned tree. The exceptions to the principle that such evidence can be used in the case set out very vague grounds whose scope is likely to be developed only in practice. Is that how the rule of law should work? Should the State of law urge that evidence be obtained that a criminal offence is committed at all costs? All of this involves a real limitation of the right of defence by removing the rules that ensure the full, unconditional possibility of obtaining a defender from the public. This is contrary to the constitution and the principle of the right of defence resulting from the European Union directive, whose implementation in our system of law the government is obliged to implement by 27 November this year. Changes of a similar nature included in the project amendments could be exchanged for a long time. Once again, under the pretext of amending a law, the government introduces non-constitutional solutions to disappear in the thicket of others. The Modern Parliamentary Club therefore proposes amendments to restore this amendment to ensure respect for fundamental civil rights and freedoms and constitutional standards [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Republic of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Marshal, I submit 27 amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u141	Thank you very much. I would ask Mr Krzysztof Paszyk to speak on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u142	Dear Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the pleasure on behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club to present my position on the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure. According to Art. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland of 2 April 1997 Rzeczpospolita Poland is a democratic legal state implementing the principles of social justice. In a democratic legal state, the fundamental principle governing relations between a citizen and a State is the principle of protecting the citizen's confidence in the State and its rights. I quote for sleep. Dr. Janusz Kochanowski, former spokesperson for civil rights: The principle of citizen's trust in the State and its rights is based on legal certainty as defined in the case law of the Constitutional Tribunal as a set of features of the law that provide legal security for the individual. Thanks to these characteristics of the law, the entity has the possibility to decide on its conduct based on full knowledge of the conditions of the functioning of the state authorities and the legal consequences that its actions may entail. An entity should be able to determine both the consequences of individual behaviours and events on the basis of the legal situation in force at a given point in time, and to expect that the legislator will not change them arbitraryly. The constitutional foundation of the state is therefore the certainty and stability of the law. Already today, the appointment of the Committee on the Codification of Criminal Law at the Minister of Justice at the end of 2009, composed of 20 absolutely outstanding lawyers led by Professor Andrzej Zoll. It considered its priority task to prepare a thorough revision of the criminal proceedings rules. The reform of the criminal trial provided for in the law resulting from the work of the codification committee distinguished its good preparation from the earlier amendments to the 1997 Code of Criminal Procedure. This law has been extensively consulted with representatives of the practice of applying procedural criminal law standards and representatives of the criminal trial science. The draft law by the government, contrary to what the designers claim, is not an amendment. This project undermines the work of the codification committee for several years and restores legal status before 1 July 2015. One might be tempted to say that it introduces a kind of old-fashioned criminal law. With regard to the content of the Government Act, it seems barren to discuss the adversarial advantage of the process model on the Inquisition model. The substantive analysis of this issue was carried out comprehensively by the codification committee, which clearly supported the Inquisition Model. Based on the actions of the projectors, it can be said that Law and Justice have its own - hidden codification committee, since it plans to introduce a new old trial model in less than 2 months from the date of submission of the bill. The adversarial model in the Polish criminal trial has been in force for only 8 months. Under the conditions of the general courts and, in particular, the prosecutor's office, this period is too short. It is not possible for such a significant change in the process model that has taken place to be implemented without obstacles and fully applied in such a short period of time. Naturally, the revision of criminal law introduced by the previous government assumed a long vacathio legis, but even a one and a half year period in this case should be considered too short for a fully effective change of the system. The Polish People's Party wishes to point out that the entry into force of the proposed changes will significantly complicate the legal situation. The proposed law will lead to the parallel existence of three procedural orders. This clearly undermines the seriousness of the justice system which I first referred to and undermines the legitimate interests of citizens whose confidence in the institutions of the state will be seriously affected. In view of the above, the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party does not see the possibility to support the submitted project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u143	Thank you very much. Seven people were included in the list of Members of the Question Task Force. The time to ask questions is 2 minutes due to the subject matter. Please, Mr Ireneusz Nagroda, the Kukiz Club15. There you go, are you an MP? There isn't. In that case, Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u144	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The original wording of the Act abolishes the provision that evidence obtained only legally is used in proceedings. This led to turbulent discussions and a proposal to reject the bill at first reading. There has been a provision stating that evidence cannot be considered inadmissible solely on the grounds that it was obtained in breach of the provisions of the procedure or by means of a prohibited act. In the proposed provision, the government allows law enforcement officers to act without a legal basis and in breach of the legal limits. It's not the means that matter, but it's the goal that counts. Meanwhile, in the Constitution of the Republic of Poland in art. 7 is written: Public authorities operate on the basis and within the limits of the law. High Izbo, in a democratic state of law, citizens should be protected from illegal acts of their own state. Why are you restricting a public defender? Doesn't the state, its institutions, have to comply with the law if it is required of citizens? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u145	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Witold Zembaczyński, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u146	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! One could ask the government about the fruit of the poisoned tree that appears in this project and the possibility of using evidence obtained for the purpose of criminal proceedings by means of a prohibited act. You could ask about the return of XXL mining arrests by using them only on the basis of a strict penalty for 3 years of imprisonment. One might ask for a reduction in the standards of the right of defence, an extension of the time limit for challenging judgments, a limitation of the State's liability for errors in the justice system. We could ask you about the threat of constitutional value, the sustainability and legal certainty, to the reform that you are reversing. We might be asking what with the shortening of the length of the process in a situation where the judges are already going to proceed according to three procedures at the moment. Questions can be multiplied, but let me ask you something else. Doesn't the government think that the lack of follow-up to the court's operational activities is a violation of fundamental constitutional rights and human freedom? Does the government not see that the lack of follow-up control of operational activities can lead to serious abuses of freedom and protection of communication and the right to protect private life? The lack of proper control by independent, independent courts is a very bad tool that could lead to the use of these tools by a prosecutor politically dependent on the Minister of Justice, to a number of abuses, to the lack of proper control of state authorities over operational activities, as the Constitutional Tribunal pointed out in its ruling. Proposed in the draft amendment as regards Article. Point 35, leads to a violation of fundamental rights and freedoms under the Constitution. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So many questions can be asked, unfortunately you do not want to answer them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u147	I ask you to ask Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform Club. At the same time, I close the list of people who would like to ask questions in this part of the Sejm's deliberations. There you go, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u148	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Law and Justice introduces very dangerous amendments to Article in the Code of Criminal Procedure Act. 168a and Art. 168b, concerning the so-called: evidence of a poisoned tree. In short, it legalizes the evidence obtained illegally, in violation of the law, also against accidentally overheard, in the case of every minor crime. The decision on this case will be the D.A.'s. A situation where the court cannot accept evidence obtained illegally as inadmissible significantly undermines the integrity of criminal proceedings, also undermines the constitutional principle of state loyalty to its own citizens. Evidence constituting the so-called The fruit of a poisoned tree is a threat to citizens' rights and freedoms. Why does Law and Justice introduce so drastic and harmful solutions to citizens into the Code of Criminal Procedure? What is the argument so unfavourable to citizens of the amendments? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u149	I would ask you to ask Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u150	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The adversarial process in the criminal procedure has aroused a lot of hope in many justice-related environments for improving judicial work. The revision of the Civic Platform provided for the introduction of equality between the parties, the prosecutor and the defence, and increased the objectivity of the judge whose activity was not excluded, he was merely to uphold the process and maintain the equality of the parties. The judge was only supposed to be an arbiter, assess the proceedings and prepare the substantive parties that fight between themselves against arguments and evidence. The change forced more work in the prosecution proceedings, whose role now ended not with an indictment, but with a later trial of defense, whose role has hardly changed in the trial. In civil proceedings, the principle of adversariality is examined in application of the standard. This forces the prosecutor to take note of the case, who was not always interested in further proceedings when the evidence was submitted to the court. The Minister of Justice considers that the reform has had the opposite effect because the number of indictments brought before the courts has decreased and the number of crimes has not decreased. He's suggesting that the D.A.'s office is jamming, and the trial is prolonged. So we'll go back to the situation before the amendment, that any mistakes in the investigation will have to be fixed again by the court. Innocence is not necessary, so the judge will have to look for evidence of guilt. Thus, for months the judges sought the necessary and unnecessary evidence for fear of repeal and repeal, especially in the case of acquittals, and so it all began again. So why does the Ministry want to return to a legal situation that is detrimental to citizens that extends the length of time in which the court, instead of being an independent and objective arbitrators, becomes one of the parties, [[♪ The bell ♪]] For weeks looking for materials and seeking to prove the defendant's guilt, which, reaching the root of Roman law, is the prosecution's task, the prosecutor? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Joachim Brudziński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u151	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u152	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I will say that I am not surprised at the desire to dismantle the Constitutional Tribunal, which could not lean on the draft. The government party introduces 44 amendments to the draft of the Government's submission at the committee meeting. It doesn't bode well for this project. We are also concerned that this project is, however, very detrimental to the citizen at all. The very fact that evidence that has been obtained illegally can be used is unacceptable in our assessment. Also some of the amendments that have been tabled seem to be moving towards Indeed, restrictions on civil rights. Just as the fact that all processes are indeed sometimes very long-lasting, it is unacceptable to suspend the very often accused in such uncertainty. Therefore, I have a question: Doesn't the government believe that the provision of the Attorney General's right to move against the provisions on the termination of the preliminary proceedings for a period of 12 months, and not - as so far - six months after its legitimacy is being carried out, as I said - to the long-term state of uncertainty about his legal situation? We believe that such action is, of course, wrong. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u153	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Zbigniew Gryglas.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u154	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! My question concerns a very detailed question related to the article. 169 § 1 and concerns evidence requests. In accordance with this provision, an indication of the evidence and the circumstances to be proved must be given in the application for proof. From this obligation to indicate the circumstances under which the evidence has been invoked, a public prosecutor has been released, who must only indicate in the indictment the evidence to be carried out. This means that the prosecutor's making evidence unnecessarily extends the proceedings and substantially increases the costs of the proceedings, and we know that in today's practice the rationalisation of both costs and the duration of proceedings is extremely important. The question is therefore: Does the government not consider that the position of the public prosecutor in terms of tasks, the formulation of conclusions of evidence should be the same as that of the other parties to the proceedings? Please answer me. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u155	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Pasyk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u156	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! At one time, the Constitutional Tribunal stated in its case law that the freedom of the legislator to shape the content of the law is balanced by the obligation on the legislator to respect procedural aspects of the democratic rule of law and, in particular, respect for the principles of decent legislation. I would therefore like to ask the Minister: Why so short vacathio legis? And the second question is, aren't you concerned as a designer that there may be a serious concern about the constitutional delicacy of such a short vacathio legis at the same time with such extensive and fundamental regulation introduced by the project? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u157	Thank you, sir. And please take the floor of Mrs Marta Golbik.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u158	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Why does the government, contrary to the ruling of the European Court of Human Rights, reduce the requirements that should be met when extending the temporary arrest? Why the government underestimates art. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and reduces the requirements to be met when extending the temporary arrest? Finally, why does the government, by changing the rules for challenging the provisions of the proposal to repeal the amendment of the preventive measure, return to solutions that raise doubts about interpretation? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u159	Thank you, Member. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I therefore ask the Secretary of State to speak at the Ministry of Justice of Mr Patrick Jaki. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u160	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Seym! I would like to address a number of points that have been raised many times in this discussion. Namely, you have repeatedly said during this debate that we are changing some rules as regards the right to award a public defender in preparatory proceedings. This is, High Seym, not true. I mean, nothing changes in this area. It is changing with regard to judicial proceedings, but with regard to preparatory proceedings, the poorest citizens will continue to be entitled to a public defender. Once again, I stress: nothing changes in this respect. The subject of objectivity has also been discussed many times in the allocation of cases and there has been alleged thesis that our change will make quality worse in this respect. No, it's exactly the other way around. I mean, we're introducing random assignment of judges to cases. And, in addition, we supplement this, High Sejm, with the provision that failure to draw this draw necessarily results in the annulment of the judgment. So this is really a change, a tough qualitative change, which, in our view, will lead us not to deal with such situations - which the media often described or with which we often dealt - that the courts, that the colleges decided that the case was going to a particular judge when there were suspicions that there might be an objective verdict. As regards the matter raised by the Member concerning the follow-up agreement that this is a alleged violation of the fundamental rights of democracy, such lofty words in general fell from this speaker, I would like to stress... [[You don't understand...]] As regards the subsequent consent, we have here a comparative comparison, as is the case in other countries of the European Union, and I would like to stress that such agreement does not exist in countries such as Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Finland, Ireland, Latvia, Malta, the Netherlands, Germany or the United Kingdom. So you can see that there is a dictatorship and there are also violations of the fundamental rights of democracy. Furthermore, Commissioner, I would like to draw attention to the errors in your knowledge, i.e. the evidence is at the end of the court's assessment, so please do not make such a claim that this institution is excluded from this institutional process. Finally, the fruit of a poisoned tree. High Seym! Please note that until now, if we have adopted the assumptions so far, for example. in the case of rape or pedophilia offences, the evidence of which would have been obtained from procedural control, e.g. telephone calls, this evidence could not be taken into account, as these crimes are not listed in the catalogue of offences of K.p.k. Is this a good activity of the state? I am convinced that most citizens will say exactly as I do, i.e. No. This is not how the state should act. To the end, High Sejm, I would like to remind you that the previous interdisciplinary model of the trial did not work, because it was a model based on a dispute between the attorney and the prosecutor, and we want to return to a model where the most important one is not a dispute, but a material truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u161	Thank you, Minister. Please take the floor... [[Can you correct it?]] The Member was not mentioned by name, so that I apologize. Mr Matusiewicz, rapporteur of the committee, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u162	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to refer to some speeches, but so not ad personam, just on the principle of erystics, i.e. the art of conducting disputes. It seems to me that you are discussing this issue of adversariality. Because, ladies and gentlemen, in this article. 167 § 1 of the Code of Criminal Procedure in the form of the existing court may take the evidence initiative, but in such exceptional cases, justified by specific circumstances. And now what kind of accidents are these? High Izbo, there would have to be a number of Supreme Court rulings here, i.e. an extraordinary appeal, in the cassation proceedings, the court would have to determine what cases these are. So there would be a discrepancy in case law depending on the facts, on the approach of a particular judge or judge, that would be admissible or inadmissible. So there would be no principle of material truth at all - the basic principle of art. 2 that the court is to rule on the basis of true facts, because these true facts It wouldn't be. After all, in the course of long discussions during this amendment, concluded by the Law of 27 September, theorists calculated that there would be about 30% of the acquittal. Is that a good thing, or is it a bad thing if the perpetrator of a crime with inaccurate, incomplete evidence is acquitted? I think it's arguing with an elementary sense of justice. The case of the Art. 168a and Art. 168b Code of Criminal Procedure. You do not see that there must be a court's agreement on these earlier operations. The authority empowered to do so shall apply for this consent and in the course of those acts prescribed in the judicial order new circumstances arise in the course of specific acts - new criminal circumstances. Then there is the question: What then? We're finding out about a new, often even bigger crime, and we're just gonna leave it behind and not go after it? The last sentence belongs to the court, I emphasized this in my speech on behalf of the club, because the court decides whether the prosecutor's initiative in this respect, whether such evidence is allowed or not, is judged by the court. So there are some instruments that lead to control. This isn't how you present it. I also wanted to refer to this extension of the time limit from 6 months to 1 year, that extraordinary remedies against legitimacy could be taken. Please note that a number of entities are entitled to file a cassation, and it often happens that the sentenced person writes applications for the cassation and to the Minister of Justice, and to the Ombudsman, and these files circulate from one entity to another. And in such cases, when there are grounds for bringing an entity to an action, it really requires an examination, some time. I therefore believe that it is in the interest of the sentenced person to extend this period in this respect, because the eligible entity can then submit an effective cancellation on its behalf. And yet I would like to say that there were indeed such issues here, that this novel as if it reverses everything that has so far been in the Law of 27 September 2013 and in this February 2015 Act. No, it's not. Please note that, with regard to appeal proceedings, the amendments are relatively minor, the principles on the basis of which the district court should take a reform ruling are respected have the possibility to complete the evidence proceedings and that the appeal to the Supreme Court against the judgment of the Court of Appeal repealing the judgment of the Court of First Instance and transmitting the case for review is exceptional. Please see that the article applies here. 439 §1 k.p.k., which refers to the absolute reasons for appeal. So how many cases are there gonna be like this? This will certainly speed up the proceedings and will also lead judges - the judges - to judge in such a way as to end the case and not to set aside for retrial so that another court can deal with the matter. This leads to a long-term process. Therefore, I would ask the honourable adversaries of this law to look also at what is certainly a good solution, and I say this as a man with 40 years of experience in courts and in a lawyer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u163	Thank you very much, sir. I'm out of here. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, an amendment was notified to the proposed amendment, pursuant to Article. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I am directing this draft law to the Extraordinary Commission for amendments to the codifications in order to submit a report. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the Extraordinary Commission's report on the government draft law amending the Penal Code Act and the Enforcement Code Act (prints 218 and 271). I ask Mr Arkadiusz Mularczyk to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u164	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to present a report from the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications of the Government bill amending the Penal Code Act and the Enforcement Code Act, print No 271. I would like to stress with satisfaction that at the meeting of the committee on which the draft amendment to the Penal Code and the Implementing Penal Code was presented, all parliamentary clubs supported this initiative, recognising that the return to the electronic surveillance penalty would fulfil their positive role in the system of enforcement criminal law, leading to a reduction in the number of prisoners sentenced to penitentiary units. It should be stressed that this system has been functioning quite well in previous years, and that, as a result of the revision of legislation and a certain practice that operates in the judiciary, this has been partially abandoned. Thus, the aim of this amendment is to restore the system of electronic supervision primarily to the practice of imposing penalties in the judicial system. Several amendments were tabled during the committee's work. They were technical, editorial, ordering, legislative and did not affect the design and shape of the bill. In view of the above, I would like to emphasise and thank you for your work in this committee, hoping that this draft will also be adopted unanimously by the High House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u165	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz will be the first to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u166	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This subject of the revision of the Penal Code and the Enforcement Code, according to the Law and Justice Club, raises little doubt. High Izbo, it was necessary because - as it is worth noting - the penalty in the electronic surveillance system is used in many European Union countries as a substitute for short-term imprisonment. This is particularly true in the UK, but also in other Western European countries. On the other hand, our esteemed legislator has introduced this punishment since 1 July 2015 as one of the forms of punishment for the restriction of freedom. I would like to remind you that in 2007 and 2015, such a penalty in a system known as the SDE was applied to 40,000. convicted, and now according to the Ministry of Justice, such punishment is carried out about 5 thousand. Convicted. So it is worth to return to this earlier model, already tested. Of course, such a question can be considered here. It is a question of further practice and looking at what this penalty would apply, for example. in relation to the short-term sentence, to the sentence of two years imprisonment. That's what the postulates are. However, I think it is good to apply it first in the form of a previous one, one which is in this model of a substitute prison sentence. This is undoubtedly a comfort for the convicted person who may be in his/her place of residence, he/she can perform various parental and other duties, only one condition: there must be the consent of the loved ones who reside with him/her. I ask the High House to support this project. I would like to remind you that the National Judicial Council, which is as close as possible to the practice of applying this penalty, strongly supports this solution, while the Supreme Court's position is in principle looking forward to checking at the stage of this penalty as a penalty for restricting freedom to continue to apply it. It seems that we need to get back to this solution as soon as possible. Thank you very much. On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I ask you to support this government proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u167	Thank you, sir. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Katarzyna Osos.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u168	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Civic Platform Club a position on the committee's report on the draft law amending the Penal Code and the Penal Code Act. The project under investigation is a return to solutions related to the operation of the electronic surveillance system, which were in force before 1 July 2015, i.e. the change concerns the use of the surveillance system as a form of execution of a prison sentence in place of the current sentence of limitation of liberty. Undoubtedly, the electronic surveillance system is an effective, efficient and good way of influencing criminals, and at the same time constitutes a lower budgetary burden for the State. Therefore, the possibilities of this system should be used as much as possible. Today, we are seeing a significant decrease in the number of people covered by the scheme, which is why this decrease may be worrying. However, as we have already stressed at first reading, and as also pointed out in its opinion by the Supreme Court, the reform of penalties aimed at a complete change in the philosophy of punishment took place only 8 months ago, and the question arises as to whether this change is not premature. Frequent changes do not serve anybody, they violate the principle of legal stability, and therefore any such change, especially when it concerns the Code, should be carefully examined, consulted and justified. Unfortunately, the projector has not analysed whether the current decline is not a temporary one or a natural consequence of the reform. The justification for the project certainly lacks a detailed analysis of the reasons for the decline in the use of the electronic surveillance system. Today, project promoters are proposing to return to good practices that have already been in place, and we will therefore support this project regardless of the above. We are particularly concerned with the social aspect of the proposed solutions and the objective of making the most of the possibilities of electronic surveillance. At the same time, as the rapporteur has already pointed out, the amendments tabled during the committee's work aim to coordinate parliamentary work with the draft law on amending the Code of Criminal Procedure Act. Therefore, the Platform will vote in favour of the project and will support the project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u169	Thank you very much, Member. I ask the floor of Mrs Barbara Chrobak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u170	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the previous term, the Civic Platform has made many legislative gestures of friendship towards criminal environments. The system of safeguards to protect suspects and accused persons has been further developed, effectively weakening the state in the fight against crime. For the whole cycle actions did not fit just one thing - abolishing the possibility of punishment in the electronic surveillance system. Why was this done? What were the motives for such action? What are the reasons for increasing the repressiveness of the state in the criminal response in this space - in the space of minor transgressions? Well, it seems that action has been taken throughout the thicket to increase the guarantees for suspects and accused persons, thus improving their situation, threatening them with a finger. But who was threatened, High Izbo? The Civic Platform has threatened citizens who commit the smallest crimes, although socially harmful, but not so much as to end up in prison. This is about, High Izbo, non-alination, communications crimes, minor crimes against property, etc. That's the kind of culprit's platform she wanted to put in jail. The platform wanted to keep these perpetrators at the taxpayer's expense in prisons. The platform, High Izbo, wanted them out of the family and professional environment. This is also the criminal policy of the previous government, which focused on repression against drivers and non-alignants, instead of looking around where there are real security threats. I will therefore repeat these arguments which I pointed out at the first reading of the project. The imprisonment of such persons in a prison leads to their being freed from a stable lifestyle. These perpetrators lose contact with their work for a few months, to which they most often do not return, and they also lose contact with their family. There is a distribution - in the majesty of law and at the initiative of the state - of family and professional ties. Convicted and incarcerated in isolation for several months. During this time, the State will pay for its maintenance. At the same time, the convicted does not work, but does not work for national income, does not pay taxes. The price is therefore double and paid by another citizen who has not fallen into conflict with the law. Abolishing the possibility of an electronic surveillance penalty has resulted in criminal establishments slowly filling up with perpetrators who have been sentenced to imprisonment with conditional suspension of their execution and have committed another minor offence during the trial period. The execution of suspended penalties without the possibility of flagging their implementation in the electronic surveillance system is currently managed on a massive basis for such persons. These are the perpetrators of the most minor crimes. This irrational trend needs to be interrupted as soon as possible, which is served by the procedated project. A modern state, a country that responds wisely to the threats of crime, should be able to maintain a convicted person, not in a prison, but in its family and professional environment. Let him be with his wife and children, let him go out of the house, but only to work, let him know that he gets the chance to benefit from electronic surveillance, but conditionally, because once he gets back on the path of conflict with the law, he won't get the second chance. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Kukiz Club15 is in favour of the bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u171	Thank you very much, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Mirosław Pampuch.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u172	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! Minister! I took part in the honor of presenting the position of the Poselski Club with regard to the draft law amending the Penal Code Act and the Penal Code Act implementing it. This draft law eliminates the spontaneous penalty for the restriction of freedom in the form of an obligation to remain in the place of permanent residence or in another designated place using an electronic surveillance system, thereby introducing the possibility to be held in an electronic surveillance system in the event of a sentence of imprisonment until one year. The committee's work has shown that it is not possible to go indifferently over the drasticly small amount of penalties for restricting freedom in the electronic surveillance system imposed by the courts ruling on the penalty, but at the same time the reasons for this state of affairs have not been diagnosed. It is therefore not excluded that there is a temporary decrease in the number of sentences in the electronic surveillance system and this should not be linked to the transfer of the decision to apply the electronic surveillance system from the execution stage of the penalty at the time of the sentence, but, first, to the transitional situation related to the introduction of the electronic surveillance system as an spontaneous penalty for the restriction of freedom, secondly, to the situation that criminal proceedings under the new rules have not yet been completed from 1 July 2015 to today and that judgments prior to 1 July have already been exhausted, to which the provisions on the electronic surveillance system could apply. Therefore, the conclusion that the continued use of the electronic surveillance system for the purpose of exercising the sentence of the restriction of freedom could lead to a marginalisation of the institution in the field of criminal policy should be considered premature. In addition, one of the grounds for allowing prison sentences is to establish that this form of punishment is sufficient to achieve criminal repression. And this assessment is to be carried out by a criminal court in a situation where the court ruling on the penalty, in the course of judicial proceedings, has more scope to assess the defendant and thus to apply the appropriate criminal measure. The Modern Club presented its position at the committee meeting. It is about the advantages of the electronic surveillance system to be punished due to social reasons concerning the non-breaking of a criminal from the family environment, and thus the possibility of rehabilitation to the full extent, and not to be corrupted by placing, in particular, criminals who have been convicted of minor convictions, in the criminal environments, as well as obvious considerations relating to the costs of implementing that penalty. Undoubtedly, the costs of the electronic surveillance system are significantly lower than the costs of being convicted in a prison. For these reasons, the Modern Club will support the government's submission. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u173	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Pasyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u174	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party Allow me to present the position of the club vis-à-vis the government's draft law amending the Penal Code and the Penal Code Act, prints No 218 and 271. Probably everyone gathered in this House from left to right will agree with the fact that the electronic surveillance system, i.e. the remote control of the whereabouts of the sentenced, is one of the brighter elements of the Polish penitentiary system. We will also all agree that electronic surveillance is a kind of victorious compromise between the law enforcement apparatus of the state and the convicted. On the one hand, the electronic surveillance system is very positive in the rehabilitation process. Thanks to such a system of punishment, the sentenced have the opportunity to work, continue learning, and maintain and maintain family ties. There are no negative psychological and social consequences associated with detention in the surveillance system. On the other hand, the electronic surveillance system is a huge savings for the State Treasury. The statistics clearly show that, in the case of imprisonment, the percentage of recidivism is extremely high. The intention to introduce the current wording of the rules on the electronic surveillance system was to restrict the use of imprisonment so that the punished do not commit crimes in the future. It is well known that much better rehabilitation effects occur when reacting with the penalty of freedom. This punishment may naturally be distressing, but it does not bring with it negative elements that are linked to the stay in a prison. The application of the sentence of the restriction of liberty, and thus of supervision, was intended to facilitate a significant reduction in the use of the sentence of imprisonment with conditional suspension of its execution, as well as the possibility of imposing a sentence of limitation of liberty in the event of a sentence of imprisonment not exceeding 8 years. The consequence of the reform of July ub. r. was also the transfer of the power to apply electronic supervision from the penitentiary courts to the courts ruling on the case and, in a broader perspective, the moment when it was decided to apply supervision from the execution stage at the time of the sentence. The July reform was not written on the knee, day by day. Multi-monthly work on the amendment has made sure that the proposed solutions will have a positive effect. However, by referring to the justification for the draft law, the claim of the designers that the direct cause of such a state of affairs is the assignment of electronic supervision in the July 2015 novel to the penalty of the restriction of freedom is unjustified. In the present case, the government does not seem to note that in addition to the changes in the electronic surveillance system in July ub. The greatest reform of criminal law in the history of the Third Republic took place. A number of factors should be taken into account when examining the reasons for the decrease in the number of convicted offenders in the electronic surveillance system, such as the ratio of the penalties imposed and the restrictions on freedom in the case of offences to which the new rules of the Penal Code apply and the offences to which the provisions before 1 July 2015 apply. The structure of penalties imposed under the current legal regime by common courts should also be examined. Referring to the bill itself, in the opinion of the Polish People's Party in the public interest, it would be necessary to extend the possibility of granting the sentenced person permission to serve a sentence of imprisonment in the electronic surveillance system if a sentence of imprisonment of not more than 2 years was imposed and not, as stated in the draft, 1 year. The risk of such a solution while maintaining the discretion of the judge is negligible. However, this does not prejudice the fact that the Polish People's Party adheres as much to the intentions that were pursued by the designers. We are looking kindly at this project and it can certainly count on our support. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u175	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to inform you that six parliamentarians have joined the questions. [[Voice from the room: seven more.]] Please, I would just like to close the list of registered Members. If there aren't more people, I'm closing the list. I'm setting time for questioning -- two minutes. Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk is the first question to be asked. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u176	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In many cases, people who have committed relatively harmless crimes and crimes go to prison. This is often the case for young people who enter adult life at a turbulent age. Their stay in a penitentiary often has a counterproductive effect, with demoralisation rather than rehabilitation. Is it therefore planned to introduce solutions that will allow such cases in particular to be covered by the electronic surveillance system instead of being in a penitentiary? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u177	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Grzegorz Furgo. In that case, I would ask Mrs Margaret Navel to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u178	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Restoring the electronic surveillance system to those deprived of freedom is a good and desirable solution also for economic reasons. The execution of an absolute prison sentence by low-depravity convicts often fails to perform a rehabilitation function, violates the family ties and social relationships of the sentenced, prevents them from carrying out their family responsibilities or providing paid work. Among the proposed changes was the provision that the court may grant permission to pursue imprisonment in the electronic surveillance system even in the absence of consent of an adult roommate, if this clearly does not involve excessive difficulties for anyone and violates his privacy only to a minor extent. I would ask you to clarify and clarify on the basis of which the court will carry out such an assessment and how the complaint brought by a person who, as a roommate, did not agree to live with a convicted person in an electronic surveillance system will be dealt with. The point is whether such a complaint will stop the implementation of electronic supervision until it is considered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u179	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Zbigniew Biernat.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u180	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Law amending the Penal Code and the Law Penal Code introduce very beneficial changes in the field of electronic supervision by restoring the possibility of imprisonment in the system of electronic supervision, which will undoubtedly contribute to the restoration of the universal use of this form of penalty. The changes that entered into force on 1 July 2015 led to a situation in which the courts were virtually deprived of the possibility of converting short-term detention sentences into a penalty under the conditions of the electronic surveillance system. It should be pointed out that the proposed changes will have a positive impact on the process of rehabilitation and social reintegration of those sentenced to imprisonment, as they will enable those sentenced to imprisonment to participate in social life and to fulfil their family responsibilities. With regard to the proposed amendments, I would like to ask you about the article. 43h of the Executive Penal Code: Has the Ministry considered the possibility of leaving the existing content of the article. 43h §4, leaving the requirement for curators to collect information on the family and social and social conditions of the sentenced person without having to issue an appropriate order by the judge if such arrangements need to be carried out? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u181	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr John Warecha.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u182	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Introduced by the Civic Platform in the previous term of office of the Sejm, the adversarial model of the criminal trial proved to be flawed and led to partial paralysis of the justice system. I would like to ask you to clarify some of the following points for the rapporteur. Is the amendment proposed in Article. 1 point 5 of the bill amending strengthens the position of the parties and does it provide the parties with real protection in dispute with the wrongly appointed judge? Is the amendment proposed in Article. 1 point 8 will improve the performance of the various prosecutors and speed up the judicial duct? Will the proposed changes make the appointing process... [[That is not the point, sir.]] [[That's not the point.]] ...the judge for a more transparent case? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u183	I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Andzelika Możjanovska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u184	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Use of electronic surveillance of convicted persons It's a very good legal instrument. In particular, the prison sentences for those who refuse to pay child support are appalling to me. It is unacceptable in my opinion that prison sentences are imposed because this causes double social harm. It is not only that these people are deprived of the possibility to pay child support, they often also charge the state budget, but also the State bears the enormous cost of keeping them in prison. Hence my question to the Minister: Minister, will the Minister's assessment of a person who is not paying alimony be subject to new regulations on electronic supervision? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u185	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Pasyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u186	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm very short, kind of expanding what's in the clubhouse. Does the Ministry of Justice allow for the extension of this period of threat of punishment in which convicted persons could be supervised from one year to another? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u187	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Grzegorz Furgo.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u188	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Following the introduction of the SDE, the electronic surveillance system, after a pilot period in the Executive Penal Code and a high assessment of this system, I ask for an answer to the contraindications which have prevented the extension of the electronic surveillance system to perpetrators who have been sentenced to imprisonment for more than 1 year and not more than 2 years of imprisonment. The pilot scheme SDE has gained very high ratings, among others. Chairman of the KRS. The audit showed many benefits of this form of punishment, but despite these assessments, the law is limited only to perpetrators with a penalty of up to 1 year. And yet the bill is no longer at the pilot stage. And second question: Would the technical-logistics security that has been prepared for the SDE absolutely be able to accept the extension of this way of punishing people with a sentence of up to 2 years? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u189	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I therefore ask the Secretary of State to speak at the Ministry of Justice of Minister Patrick Jaki. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u190	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Seym! I answer the questions that came from the platform. Mr Kaczmarczyk - can the SDE system be used in such a way as to legally record the direction or sewerage of this product to young people. While I understand here that the intention of the Member is noble, from the point of view of Polish law we cannot differentiate punishments due to age. On the other hand, I would like to say to you that, according to our statistics, most of the people who are being punished in the electronic surveillance system are those in the age range you are referring to. With regard to Mrs Płępek's question, which is what, when there is a lack of roommate's consent, and in general the question of the lack of roommate's consent, the court may rule on punishment at the premises where the person in the electronic system is located and other persons live, in exceptional circumstances. This may apply to situations where, for example, This is the only room in which a person can be punished in this system, but it is e.g. a large house where there is one entrance, but people are separated from each other. As I say, this is an absolutely exceptional situation for a court decision. Mr Biernat asked about the involvement of the curators in this procedure. I would like to stress that in the assessment of the Ministry of Justice there is no need to regulate this in a special way, because it is the convicted person who makes the application and that the consent of the roommates must always be attached to this proposal. Mrs Możjanowska asked for alimony, for people convicted of alimony. I would like to reply to the honourable Member that, yes, these people are already covered by the electronic surveillance system, but, of course, we are talking about those who have received a sentence of up to 1 year imprisonment. Mr Paszyk - the question is whether... And Mr Furgo, because these were questions in total consistent with each other, i.e. the possibility of extending this period during which we could use the electronic surveillance system up to 2 years. Of course, in the opinion of the Ministry of Justice, this is a matter for analysis, but I would like to stress, High Sejm, that, above all, we can only apply such a system in the case of imprisonment until 1 year, decided the burden of the crime. The burden of crime, because if we came from such an assumption, for the past two years imprisonment may receive sentences of persons who have been convicted, for example. For rape or pedophilia. Therefore, it would require a deeper analysis, High Sejm, but of course the Ministry of Justice does not close to such a discussion. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u191	Thank you, Minister. I would like the floor of the rapporteur of the committee of Arkadiusz Mularczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u192	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank you for the discussion on the adopted report. You can see that this initiative is needed, necessary. It is the result of the reflections and work of the Ministry of Justice, and it is also an acceptance for this initiative, for the implementation of it, so that I hope it will be adopted and that more citizens will be punished in electronic surveillance instead of being in prison. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u193	Thank you, sir. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on the suspension of the sale of property of the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury and on the amendment of certain laws (print No 293). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Mr Zbigniew Babalski to present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u194	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We're officially starting today, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo, the discussion about the project, which is entitled: the draft law on the suspension of the sale of the property of the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury and on the amendment of certain laws. It's a bill that's been incredibly emotional for weeks, not entirely justified. Sometimes we may feel that those who are most determined about this law have not been fully acquainted with the content of this law. [[We'll listen, Minister. Well, well, well.]] But to the point. The draft law on the suspension of the sale of agricultural property of the Treasury and on the amendment of certain laws on 8 January 2016 was addressed to public consultation and inter-ministerial arrangements. On 11 February 2016, it was adopted by the Standing Committee of the Council of Ministers and subsequently, on 23 February 2016, by the Council of Ministers. On 4 March 2016, the bill was submitted by Ms Beata Szydło, President of the Council of Ministers, to the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The main objective of the proposed solutions, as announced in the exposé by the Prime Minister, is to protect Poland from uncontrolled buyout. The existing law on the shaping of the agricultural system and the new law of 5 August 2015 on the shaping of the agricultural system adopted in the previous term of office of the Sejm do not provide such protection. The European Economic Committee also pointed out in its opinion of 21 January 2015 on the issue of the purchase of agricultural land - the alarm bell for Europe and the threat to family farming. I am in possession of this document and, if necessary, I will make it available to the committee. The Committee, referring directly to Poland in this opinion, stated that despite the fact that by May 2016 there was a ban on foreign nationals and foreign companies, especially from the European Union, these entities had already purchased around 200,000. Ha-doodle-doodle-doodle-doodle-doodle-doodle-doodle-doodle-doodle-doodle-doodle-doodle-doodle-doodle-doodle-doodle-doodle-doodle-doodle-doodle-doodle-doodle-doodle-doodle-doodle-doodle-doodle-doodle-doodle-doodle-doodle-doodle. The Committee noted that reliable data on the extent of this phenomenon is difficult to obtain, as not all land transactions are recorded and that such transactions between legal persons are often not transparent, e.g. in the case of land purchases by subsidiaries or partner companies. In order to achieve the goal of protecting the Polish land, it is necessary, first of all, to stop the sale of real estate belonging to the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury - I repeat, the land forming part of the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury - within 5 years of the date of entry into force of the proposed law. The above solution meets the demands, and I would like to stress very clearly, as reported by farmers, not only Western Pomerania, who want to have a real and equal chance of accessing the country's agricultural land in Poland, and as a result of the constant rise in prices, even gallops or gallops, in terms of the rise in agricultural property prices, they currently do not have enough resources to buy agricultural land. Therefore, during this period, the basic way in which the real estate of the stock is to be managed should benefit farmers from permanent leases. According to the project, the cessation of the sale of the property will not apply to immovable property and parts thereof intended for purposes other than agricultural purposes, in particular for transport investments, housing, sports and recreational facilities, or properties located within the limits of special economic zones, or houses, dwellings, economic buildings and garages, together with the necessary land and residential gardens, and are the last point, agricultural real estate with an area of up to 1 ha. This principle of cessation of sales will not apply to these cases. It should also be pointed out that the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, at the request of the President of the Agricultural Property Agency, will be able to consent to the sale of property other than those mentioned above, if socio-economic considerations so warrant, e.g. where a farmhouse or other agricultural organisations request a limited invitation to tender for sale to individual farmers. The real protection of Polish land against uncontrolled buyout is also intended to serve the proposed amendments to other laws. The most important amendment concerns the Law of 11 April 2003 on the shaping of the agricultural system. It is assumed, here is an important moment, that the buyers of agricultural property will in principle only be individual farmers, i.e. farmers with agricultural qualifications, who have personally carried out at least 5 years of agricultural holding with an area not exceeding 300 hectares of agricultural area and who live on that holding, and who are fully covered by social insurance for farmers where the area of the holding exceeds 20 hectares of agricultural area. Note - these requirements, I repeat, these statutory requirements will not apply to the acquisition of agricultural property by local government units, the Treasury, but above all to the acquisition by persons close to the seller, i.e. Preliminaries, siblings, siblings, spouse, accompaniers and accompaniers. I draw attention to this information that I have given at the moment, because in a very turbulent way today, we have been accused of doing an attack on our fatherhood. That is not true. [[Voice from the room: True.]] If anyone reads this bill well, I think he will understand in a clear and simple way that this emotion simply does not exist. What does that mean? This means that it will still be possible to transfer agricultural property, e.g. for children, through a donation contract. And one more important thing: agricultural property can also be acquired through inheritance. With the agreement of the President of the Agency by means of an administrative decision against which the appeal will be given to the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development, agricultural property will also be able to acquire other entities providing guarantees of proper agricultural activity and if there is no excessive concentration of agricultural land as a result of the acquisition. The acquisition of agricultural real estate will also be possible for the natural person wishing to establish a family holding, if he is qualified as an agricultural holding, to guarantee the proper pursuit of agricultural activities and to undertake to reside within a period of 5 years from the date of acquisition of the real estate in the municipality in which one of the agricultural real estate is situated, which will be part of the established family holding. In the event of non-acceptance of the acquisition of real estate, the agency will be required to acquire the real estate at the market price at the request of the seller. In order to eliminate the possibility of speculative purchase of agricultural land by persons whose principal activity in life and occupation takes place outside agriculture and their purchase as a form of investment in land, it is necessary to prohibit the disposal or transfer of agricultural property to another entity without the consent of the court for a period of 10 years from the date of acquisition. In order to ensure the expansion and creation of family holdings, as well as to counter the speculative buy-out of agricultural property, it is intended to maintain the existing right of the agency's original buying-in - I also stress this provision, because we are accused of introducing the right of first purchase; I would like to remind you that this law has been in existence for 13 years since 2003, so here we are not making any changes - and the right to acquire agricultural land in the event of a transfer of ownership in a form other than sales. Now move on. The right of first purchase will also be granted to a tenant who is an individual farmer. The right of first purchase and acquisition will not be granted in the cases specified in the Act, among others. where the buyer is an individual farmer resident in the territory of the municipality in which the immovable property is disposed of, or the bordering community, and when the buyer is a close person, so the agency will have no rights here. The new proposed solution is to grant the agency - this is a new solution - the right to buy shares or shares in commercial companies owned by agricultural property. In addition, in the event of a change of partner or the accession of a new partner to a partnership which owns agricultural property, the agency, acting in favour of the Treasury, will be able to make a statement on the acquisition of that property for payment of the monetary equivalent. The proposed provisions aim to prevent the actual acquisition of agricultural property by persons who are not farmers and who have become partners in private companies or who have become shareholders or shareholders in commercial companies owned by agricultural real estate and who actually own these properties by controlling those companies. Another important amendment concerns the Law of 19 October 1991 on the management of agricultural real estate of the State Treasury. It is proposed that agricultural property from the agricultural holding of the Treasury should first be leased out, I stress: leased or sold - it is already in the second place - for the extension or creation of family farms. The adoption of such regulation will comply with the request made during the farmers' protests, as I mentioned at the outset, not only in the West Pomeranian Voivodeship, but throughout the country. I remind you of a green town outside the Chancellery of the Prime Minister. Such a request has also been made by agricultural organisations to ensure that the Agency is not obliged to sell land from the stock first. The lease and sale of real estate from the stock will take place primarily through limited tenders organised for individual farmers wishing to increase their family holdings or for those with agricultural qualifications wishing to set up a family farm, i.e. those who do not yet have it and who are qualified. The Agency will also be able to organise tenders at which the price - which is important, I stress it with all force - will not be a criterion for the selection of the offer, which means that the property will be purchased at a price previously established by the valuer, plus the cost of preparing the property for sale. Detailed regulations will be provided in the relevant regulations of the President of the Agricultural Property Agency. These tenders, and here is an extremely good situation for young farmers, and I would like to make it clear that people under the age of 40 who are not individual farmers will be able to take part, because they do not meet only one condition, the requirement of a 5-year period of personal holding and which will enable the extension of the holding. There's no such thing today. I have many requests, even complaints, that the access of young farmers has been blocked so that they can expand their farms. From 30 April we open wide doors for young farmers. This charge was often made that we forget about young people in the Polish countryside. In order to increase the supply of land as a resource for the enlargement and creation of family holdings, the draft law assumes that the person who purchased together, whenever, from the stock of 300 hectares of agricultural land or as a result of the acquisition of the area of its holding exceeds 300 hectares of total agricultural area will not be able to participate in tenders. To this end, the limit for the acquisition of land from 500 hectares to 300 hectares of agricultural land, the resource, I stress, is also reduced. Taking into account the recommendations, this is also important information, the Supreme Audit Chamber's draft law provides for the exclusion from participation in all types of invitations to tender of persons who are financially behind the identified entities in the public finance sector or have not left the land of the stock despite the agency's call. There's a lot of cases like this. This is the scale for the country, a few thousand hectares. Agricultural real estate acquired from the stock will not be able to be disposed of without the agency's approval within 10 years from the date of their acquisition and the purchaser will have to carry out agricultural activities on them personally during that period. The agency's consent will also require a mortgage on these properties. The purpose of this regulation is to exclude from the acquisition of real estate persons who do not really intend to carry out agricultural activities on the land acquired and who in fact acquired the land under preferential conditions. Each buyer of the property of the stock prior to the conclusion of the sale contract will submit, under criminal responsibility, a statement on the origin of the funds for this purpose and that he has not concluded a pre-emptive contract for the disposal of the property. The aim of this regulation is to prevent the acquisition of real estate by persons who in fact acquire land for the benefit of other persons, with their money, which will ensure that real estate is disposed of to persons who are genuinely interested in running a family farm. The amendments to the Act on the shaping of the agricultural system and the Act on the management of agricultural real estate of the State Treasury are supplemented by amendments to other laws. And so on. The Civil Code provides for the introduction of the principle that agricultural property by sitting, I repeat: by sitting, it may acquire an individual farmer if the acquired property, together with agricultural property owned by him, does not exceed 300 hectares of agricultural land. In addition, individual farmers will be preferred on matters relating to the acquisition of shares in joint ownership of agricultural property or the abolition of such joint ownership. It is also foreseen that provisions on the formation of the agricultural system will apply to the disposal of the inheritance or part of the inheritance covering the agricultural holding or agricultural real estate. In turn, the amendment of the Law of 6 July 1982 on perpetual books will enable the Agency to exercise the right of pre-emption by excluding the earlier burden on the property concerned by excessive mortgages which are not to be covered by the market value of the property. This regulation will also prevent farmers from overindebting themselves. On the other hand, the amendment of the Law of 17 May 1989 is intended to enable the Agency to obtain the necessary information in the performance of its tasks. The adoption of the draft regulation will lead to a real, not merely declarative, agricultural system based in Poland on family farms, which will be the fulfilment of the standard art. 23 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland, according to which the agricultural system in Poland is based on family farms. The year 1997, April, the adoption of this law. We may have doubts. as regards certain entries in this Act, but in Article. 23 is written that the basis of the agricultural system in Poland is the family farm. Today we are trying to fill this constitutional record. It should be stressed that the draft law prior to the adoption by the Council of Ministers was analysed in detail in terms of its compatibility with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland and European Union law. Contrary to some emerging opinions, the draft law does not affect the substance of the property right, because the protection of property is not absolute and can be limited by the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. These restrictions may be introduced by law and must, I stress, protect the security of the state or public order or protect the environment, health, public morality or the freedoms and rights of others. The constitutional value of the bill is to ensure the food security of the country. The proper development of the agricultural system should be based on regulation to prevent excessive concentration of private property and to encourage the creation and enlargement of the holdings concerned, as I have just mentioned, in Article. 23 Constitution of the Republic of Poland. Agricultural real estate treated as a special value, of a particular nature and purpose should be held in the hands of persons with appropriate qualifications, and the time limit for the disposal of property rights is intended to ensure that this exercise is not a fantasy masking legal turnover contrary to the objectives of the Act. It also requires that the provisions of the Act on the shaping of the agricultural system do not apply to all agricultural property, since the regulations of that law exclude real estate which are intended for purposes other than agricultural purposes in the spatial planning plans. The protection of the rights of owners of agricultural property, in particular as regards the right to dispose of the property, is also served by the solution whereby, in the event that the President of the Agency does not agree to the disposal of such property, the Agency will be required to acquire it at the price resulting from the assessment of that property. In view of the above, it must be concluded that the solutions proposed in the draft law are in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. As regards the compatibility of the draft law with European Union law, it should be noted that the solutions adopted in the proposal do not differ substantially from those in force in other countries of the European Union. This is what I particularly refer to euro-enthusiasts who talk about such great freedom when it comes to conducting land trading. Here I have a list of 27 countries, except Poland, members of the European Union. It is described how each country protects its own land and how it allows the land to rotate. Almost all are slightly different, but in principle the defense of this land is one common denominator - there can be no excessive concentration and there can be any rotation. Let me give you a few examples. [[Is there a ban on sales?]] Don't worry, you'll have the right to speak soon. [[I just asked.]] France. Neighbor, a little further from Germany, but a member of the European Union. The turnover of agricultural real estate in France is subject to control, attention, administrative. Decisions, so-called Authorisations allowing agricultural activities to be carried out on land to be purchased or leased shall be undertaken by the prefects of the departments taking into account the priorities indicated in the departmental structural plans. Authorization is required, among others. - only two points shall be cited - if: the result of the creation of a new, enlarged or established unit holding is to exceed the threshold of the area of the holding; the actions referred to in point 1 will lead to the liquidation or division of the existing holding or deprive it of the buildings necessary to carry out agricultural activities. According to the SAFER agreement, it is an institution which conducts total land trading in France - the buyer, note, undertakes that for at least 15 years he will personally run the acquired holding and personally carry out part of the work on that holding without the right to lease or to use it. 15 years to check. We're talking about 10 years. The disposal of the farm... [[When you buy from your neighbor?]] Take it easy. [[I'm asking.]] The disposal of the holding in exceptional circumstances, in addition to the transfer of the successor or spouses, shall be subject to the approval of SAFER. The notary drawing up the contract shall notify the SAFER of the intention to sell agricultural real estate, which, within the framework of the country's agricultural policy, has the option of exercising the fundamental right of pre-emption. Germany. In Germany, permits for the disposal of agricultural property are issued depending on the land by the general administration or the district authority. The Act also applies to exchanges, donations, settlements and successions related to agricultural real estate. Authorisations do not appear if: the disposal leads to an unreasonable distribution of agricultural property; the disposal of part or most of the land forming the agricultural holding will lead to a division which would lead to the uneconomic operation of the holding; the division of the land will cause the area of the holding to fall below 1 ha; the price of the land deviates sharply from the prices offered on the local market - so they also interfere in the prices and somehow do not care too much. Without permission, property cannot be acquired effectively, as the office of perpetual books will not enter ownership into the land register in the land register. The equivalent of the French SAFER is German companies operating in the legal form of limited liability companies. The intervention function of the companies on the agricultural land market is that the district administrative authority shall transfer the agreement to the company on certain conditions if it is necessary to refuse authorisation. The right of pre-emption, in respect of land-based companies, does not include transactions involving a former land-seller and certain categories of relatives in the sideline. And I'd like to tell you that this is a test too. Sold properties are monitored for a period of - guess - how many years? 20. For 20 years - German law has established that - the land sold is monitored, what happens to it. So it's a huge time. [[Monitored, not nationalized.]] Denmark. The Danish legislation contains different conditions for the acquisition of agricultural property for individuals and companies. The acquisition of agricultural property of which the area exceeds 30 ha is possible by a natural person, e.g.: the purchaser is 18 years old, the purchaser is a citizen of Denmark or a State of the Union, or an EFTA State, and under the legislation in force there has the right to acquire a property situated in Denmark, the buyer or a spouse or children at the time of acquisition in Denmark are not the owners or co-owners of agricultural property located abroad, and if the purchaser owns an agricultural property in his home country, it is required under Danish law to sell the holding before the acquisition of the land in Denmark, and the right of permanent stay in Denmark is required, the purchaser settled permanently in Denmark within 6 months of the acquisition of the property... [[Denmark, not the municipalities, not the country, not the municipalities.]] Patience, please. ...the buyer will manage the acquired property on his own. I'm not gonna read about companies. If there are any questions, we'll answer them in the O.R. or in writing. The function of public authority in the field of agricultural real estate trading in Denmark fully Department of Agriculture Structures. So there's a hat again, which is said to be only in Poland, and that's not true. The Department is an entity authorised by the Minister for Agriculture, the Danish Minister for Agriculture to purchase agricultural land in order to improve the area structure of agricultural holdings, preserve the value of the rural landscape, collect land reserves for damages, arrange green areas, melioration of land, investments as well as land allocation for the expansion of family farms. Once again, the department has the right to buy land to the State in cases justified by the implementation of these projects. To stop bothering you, I'm going to skip a few countries... And what is sometimes as painful as we say the name of this country: Hungary, as they have dealt with it. The maximum area of agricultural land owned in Hungary is 300 ha, the maximum area. They are not entitled to acquire land: foreign natural persons from outside the Union, other countries or their provinces, foreign local governments and any body thereof, legal persons, except churches which have obtained land from their predecessors, legal predecessor as a result of organisational transformation. The condition for the acquisition of real estate in Hungary is that the farmer must be registered in Hungary, be qualified in agriculture or forestry, or certify at least 3 years of agricultural experience. If national natural persons and citizens of the European Union are unable to demonstrate agricultural education in the field of forestry or have not been engaged in agricultural or forestry activities in Hungary for 3 years in their own name and at their own risk, they may acquire up to 1 ha of land in the territory of Hungary. For the acquisition of real estate, both property and use, it is necessary to obtain the consent granted by the State authority which holds the right of veto. Earth can be acquired by a person who is currently authorized. The acquiring person must declare that he will personally cultivate the land and will not pass it on to another person in principle for 5 years. We have a similar situation, we're extending this period to 10. In some countries this is even longer. The buyer must undertake to settle as a permanent resident in the town where the land acquired is located within one year of the acquisition of ownership. We say if you're qualified, you want to start a family farm, you give guarantees of running this farm well, you can do it right away. So we're taking the easier path here a little bit. Moreover, in Hungary there is a right of first purchase and a right of redemption by the State. For the validity of the land sale act, as well as the conclusion of contracts for the transfer of lease rights, it is necessary, in addition to the requirement of a lawyer for the sale of land and notarial security for the lease, to obtain permission from the relevant office: the agricultural department of the central administration at the voivodship level. Referring directly to European Union legislation, it must be stated that the draft law does not affect the Treaty's freedom of movement of capital between Member States. This is also mentioned in many statements. Nationals of the Member States shall not be treated less favourably on the basis of the solutions proposed in the project than on the date of signature of the Accession Treaty in relation to the situation of citizens of the Republic of Poland. The principle of the movement of capital in parallel to other Treaty freedoms is not absolute. According to the case-law of the Court of Justice concerning the movement of capital, any restriction on the acquisition of immovable property is admissible where it is of public interest, non-discriminatory and meets the requirements of the principle of proportionality. Such restrictions shall be allowed, in so far as they pursue an objective of general interest, to be applied in a non-discriminatory manner and in accordance with the principle of proportionality, i.e. are appropriate and necessary to achieve the objective pursued. The public interest to be protected under the law - including this one - is primarily to ensure the food security of the country, as well as to counter speculation on agricultural land and strengthen the position of family farms, I hope, also to rebuild the very weak portfolio of the Polish farmer. The bill is at least a dozen years late. In the early 1990s, when the Agricultural Property Agency of the Treasury was established - today the heir is the Agricultural Property Agency - there were more than 4700 thousand. ha, which have been taken over mainly on state farms. The agency, which was established at that time, had a basic purpose: to attempt to develop this land and to try to shape the agricultural system of the Republic of Poland under new conditions. This was not quite the case for a number of reasons, for example for one basic reason: debt from former state-owned farms. Not everyone, I stress that it should not be accepted, that I am talking about everyone, not everyone. The priority was to pay it back as soon as possible. I worked at an agency in the years 2000. The payment of this debt was completed in the field office in Olsztyn, if I remember correctly, in 2000, so for 8 years, practically, it was necessary to withdraw this money to repay the debt. High Izbo! This is a document that is officially presented today in plenary of the Sejm. I think this is a good time today to start a substantive discussion here, in this room, and in the agriculture committee. Many evils have been done in the last few weeks, many evils have been done, showing how this bill will lead to the collapse of the Polish village. [[That's what farmers say.]] [[Voice from the room: Of course.]] In that case, we listen to different farmers. [[Voice from the room: Different.]] I would like to say to you that I have many opinions, and the key opinion of the National Council of Agricultural Chambers is positive, which does not mean that without comments, comments have been made, but the moment when we should talk about this has come today, today the project has officially been presented to you. [[It was passed at night.]] I hope that we will hold a debate on this project in the Parliament and, above all, at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture. We are open to a good, substantive discussion and possibly good amendments tabled. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: What about the previous bill?]] I'm not gonna be provoked by the fights you're trying to make. Thank you for your attention. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] [[Voice from the room: What fights?]] [[First night law.]] [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u195	Thank you, Minister. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Sejm has agreed to hear ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs in the discussion on this item. There'll be time to make all the remarks. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u196	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It is my great honor to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the bill submitted in print no. 293. I would like to make this very clear: to a specific draft of amendments. Not to our imaginations, not to our fears, not to our phobias, not to our, unfortunately, emerging contradictions, but to the concrete, precisely presented also by your project minister. A project that we will probably be working on during the plenary session of the Sejm and the agricultural committee. On the other hand, I am absolutely convinced that this law, which actually - as Mr Man has observed - is late for several years, will finally see the light of day, and finally this enchanted circle of inability will be broken. [[That's what happened last year.]] This proposed law responds to a number of threats in Polish agriculture, in the Polish countryside. It is an attempt to introduce a real, not a declarative, real, control of land trading in Poland so that these land serves social objectives, national goals. First of all, it makes it difficult to sell Polish land to foreigners, or, to say the least, it makes it difficult. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Some of you laugh at it, claiming it's a danger of dumbass. [[No, we laugh that you don't give Poles...]] This threat is very real, very real. The purchasing power of Polish farmers is several times lower than that of farmers from the countries of the old European Union, three times lower than French farmers, even more than English farmers. Only in three regions of the European Union, which is precisely stated in the explanatory memorandum of the Act, in two Portuguese and one Italian, farmers' incomes are lower than in Poland. That has to be taken into account. This law also stops speculative land circulation. Some say that in the open market there is no idea of speculation, in the case of land there is. Since 1989, huge fortunes, fortunes, which can be described as buying a very cheap, ridiculously cheap land, have been created in Poland to sell it for all kinds of purposes. Those who decided to sell the land from the stock were among the most influential people in Poland. It's been going on for years. Thus, this law stops speculation on the ground, also allows for stable income for the state budget, stable annual income from leases, and allows to implement breeding programs in the strategic companies of the Treasury. Now a few words about real estate conditions and their role for Poland and Poles. Agricultural real estate has an absolute impact on ensuring food security, which in addition to military and energy security is one of the most important for the modern world. Civilizational changes, infrastructure development, climate change make the agricultural land less and less, that these resources are rapidly decreasing. There is also an end, although holes, to the system of land protection 12 years after the entry into the European Union. It is a pity that only so much has been negotiated, and yet the examples that Minister Babalski was talking about show that in the vast majority of EU countries land protection is much stronger than the one that was in Poland. There is a real threat of increased interest among buyers from other countries, especially those where there are much higher land prices. And the fact that in Poland there are high prices of land, already comparable with EU prices - e.g. in Kujawy prices exceed 100,000. PLN for the best land in Poland - does not mean that the average price of land in Poland although it approached prices in Western Europe. These land prices are significantly lower still. Also in those countries where there are strong legal barriers preventing foreign nationals from acquiring land, there is an interest in land in this part of Europe. Our concerns, Polish farmers, are also shared by farmers from the countries of Central and Eastern Europe. I had the pleasure of attending a conference held in the Hungarian Parliament a year ago, where Bulgarians, Hungarians, Czechs, Slovaks, Baltic countries were terrified to see what could happen to the agricultural land in their countries with the absolute release of these land. As I mentioned, some buyers treated the land as an investment in capital. There are restrictions in many countries - SAFER in France, terrestrial companies in Germany, Denmark, a specific regulatory mechanism in Bulgaria and Hungary... It was described. Does anyone question democratic rights, civil rights in these countries? Does anyone claim that the constitution doesn't work in Germany or France? Ladies and gentlemen, for example in Denmark - it was mentioned - in order to acquire land under very restrictive conditions, you have to sell the farm if you have it abroad. The Act is the result of concern for Polish farmers, who should have equal opportunities in access to the state land in Poland. We do not accept the idea that when we are deconstructive in agriculture, with much lower incomes in Poland than our colleagues in Western Europe, we are to sell the land, without regard to the financial opportunities of indebted farmers. We do not accept the thinking presented in 2013 by the then head of the Polish People's Party by Deputy Prime Minister Pawlak, saying that we can bury the budget hole in such a way that we will sell the land which is in the Treasury resource, Polish peasants and they will cover the budget hole. We don't accept that kind of thinking. [[Applause]] Stopping the sale of real estate will apply to agricultural land. I would also like to stress very clearly, and it is good that the Minister has reminded us that young farmers will be particularly preferred in purchasing land. On the other hand, these state-owned land is intended not only to perform production functions in agriculture, but also to be those on which social objectives will be pursued, public objectives in rural areas. And there will be no interruption of the sale of real estate where the objectives set out in the local spatial planning plan, economic or residential investments, and scattered real estate, which amounts to up to 1 ha. I am surprised at all, and we have talked about this several times, that over the years of the Agricultural Property Agency's operation it has not been possible to solve the problem of these scattered small parcels, several-, several-storey areas, which should have long gone to neighbouring farmers. About 240 grand. these parcels are still waiting to be disposed of. They are not the subject of speculation or various kinds of games that are going on in front of large areas. On the other hand, this should go to farmers and we can talk about it. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposed changes aim to improve the area structure. The practice of land sales so far, regardless of the form of the tender, even a limited tender for farmers, shows that the land did not reach the expansion of small and medium-sized farms, although there is the greatest demand and there is hope, often deceptive, that enlargement will allow the creation of a commodity holding that will cope with the difficult situation on the market in the coming years. Who bought this land? Anyone who watched the tenders, knows - the richest, the richest, the wealthiest, with the financial capacity of farmers. Did this improve the agronomic structure of those farms that wanted to use the land in their resources? She wasn't getting any better. The law also goes towards countering excessive concentration. The 300 hectare standard, which is questioned by some farmers as being too high, is maintained here. [[Voice from the room: Too low.]] We want to prevent excessive concentration of agricultural land. This law also goes towards ensuring that agricultural activities are carried out - a difficult, specific activity requiring increasing knowledge and skills, increasing competence - by people with appropriate qualifications. The law on which we are proceeding changes a number of laws, a very detailed series [[♪ The bell ♪]] registrations in a number of laws. We will work on this in committee, we will work in parliament, we will continue to consult the social partners. Finally, I would like to say with great satisfaction that this law is that we can work on it, because it will serve Poland and Polish agriculture well. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u197	Thank you very much. I ask the floor of Mrs Dorota Sunday.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u198	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform club vis-à-vis the government's draft law to suspend the sale of the property of the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury and to amend certain laws, print No 293. Let me start by quoting the words of the President of the Council of Ministers of Beata Szydło. In the Seym Exposition on 18 November 2015, the Prime Minister said that she particularly strongly stressed that the Government of Law and Justice would be talking to Poles, because dialogue and cooperation are a prerequisite for the implementation of the actions that are before the Government of Law and Justice in line with the expectations of society. Under previous governments, cooperation with organisations and trade unions was facaded. These noble-sounding goals are noble words, and here in the Seym, we are dealing with the recording of these words, with the fulfillment of these words in the form of a law which you present, a law which we are to review, on which we are to proceed, a law which concerns the majority of farmers in Poland, which concerns most Poles, so the law which we should discuss and conduct dialogue on according to the words of the Prime Minister. This law not only regulates and supervises the trading of agricultural land of the Treasury, Minister, as you said, but also supervises and monitors the sale of private land, what Pole is accustomed to most strongly, ownership and privacy. Dialogue and cooperation during the design of this project are an example of the fact that the authorities carry out their activities regardless of their comments, concerns, objections, opinions of citizens, organizations, trade unions. During the public consultation itself, the State took only a few of the transitional provisions into account for 75 very serious comments from the social side. These are new standards. According to all previous announcements, this was supposed to be a dialogue. The Act concerns the protection of agricultural land against possible speculative redemption by foreigners in connection with the end of the protection period for the purchase of Polish land, passing on 1 May this year. The Ministry presented us with a proposal to introduce restrictions for foreigners, but restrictions for foreigners ended at the same time with restrictions covering almost 90% of Poles. The government has set itself the right goal, very right, Minister - to keep the Polish land in Polish hands. However, the question remains whether this project fulfils this objective or whether changes actually serve this purpose. Do not many oppositions and complaints from farmers, organisations give rise to a very strong word in defence and to a very far-reaching fear of breaking three fundamental civil rights? It is the right to our property, it is the right to our value and it is the right to our inheritance. All legal authorities, as well as the Legislative Council of the Government, make serious comments on the grounds of this law arising from the violation of property rights and too far interference in private land trafficking, including the right to inherit it. The Act gives great power and competence to agency officials, who will be able to exercise their right of first purchase and redemption on a large scale, and restrictively strengthens the conditions for acquiring the land. The Government's Legislative Board has raised doubts about specific provisions that seem unconstitutional. The ombudsman also raises doubts about the law, even saying that there is a risk of deep interference by the legislator in the rights of owners and possible buyers of agricultural property. The proposed solutions will apply to a huge number of properties and directly affect the rights and freedoms of hundreds of thousands of people. The solutions presented should be regarded as an opportunity to expropriate all agricultural property to the Treasury without demonstrating the statutory grounds for such action whenever possible. That's where the danger comes in. The owner who purchased the agricultural property, this young farmer, Minister, will be obliged to run his farm personally, will be obliged to run it for 10 years from the date of the acquisition and will have to run it under the supervision of the real estate agency. If the agency finds that it leads them wrong, it will have the right through the court to apply for the purchase of the holding. Isn't that like nationalization, ladies and gentlemen? A civil servant can sue and a state official can deprive us of our private land. Does the Government of Law and Justice want Polish land to be in the hands of the state instead of in the hands of Polish farmers? And will the agency - which we think should be called an agency of nationalization of agriculture - be used to expropriate farmers, and the president of this super agency of nationalization will follow orders, give someone, give someone? It is a law that harms Polish farmers. It is a law that causes conflicts in the countryside and will cause conflicts in the countryside. It is, in turn, a law leading to humiliating relations between the sovereign agency and the farmer. This is certainly an attack on farmers' property. This is certainly also a huge fraud against the farmers who trusted this government. It is an unacceptable and unacceptable law, dangerous to farmers and dangerous to the Polish countryside. We will defend and protect the private property of the farmer by refusing to accept the new agricultural reform from the Polish People's Republic. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u199	Please take the floor of Mr Leszek Korzeniowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u200	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! For the sake of time, I'm just gonna say that we're definitely not gonna support this bill. And by the way, this is my 8th year of fighting this bill, because for the last 8 years... Even earlier with Minister Sawicki, who, on behalf of PSL and our coalitioner, presented similar laws, I think it was wrong, and I have always been against these laws. The one you're presenting, Minister, is tragic, my friend, notabene sympathetic. We're against this bill. [[Applause]] That's not how you do it. Let me just give you one little example. Agro-War - 2200 ha, 55 persons, end date of lease 2018 They are mostly members of the company's shareholders. Shareholders. And now, at the time of the dissolution of this company... [[On the pavement.]] ...none of them will even be able to... [[Voice from the room: Write.]] ...begin bidding for this land. Because they're shareholders, so this bill forbids them. Why don't you give them 500 zlotys to wipe their tears off? [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Maybe $1,000.? This is one of the biggest scandals you can imagine. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not right. Those farmers who believe you will change the Polish village are naive fools. [[Applause]] I think they're gonna wake up mostly. [[Jurgel's decree.]] They will soon say that it is not lawful to vote for the Law and Justice, for the Law and Justice are not telling the truth. Thank you. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Very. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[The motion for rejection...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u201	You asked for the floor of Minister Babalski. You're welcome. [[Minister...]] [[Voice from the room: Time is up.]] Thank you, Mr... [[The motion for rejection at first reading...]] [[But that rejection...]] [[Voice from the room: You've already forgotten about all this.]] [[Impressed, little time.]] [[Formal conclusion.]] [[He forgot all about it...]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u202	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! So you guys are so excited that you forgot to file a motion, practically. But don't worry. Friends from other clubs... [[I'll make a formal conclusion...]] ...probably they'll file for you. I can feel the atmosphere. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] You're not gonna outshine reality. [[Let the Minister respect the Members.]] I would like to draw attention to one thing - which I asked for at the end of my speech. We are proceeding with print number 293, which was also mentioned by Mr Krzysztof Ardanowski. It wasn't about what happened, it was about what you got. So I'd like you all to take it easy... [[But we're calm.]] ...because since this morning the temperature has been rising higher and higher, they've focused on the project you've received, print number 293. [[The other project who wrote it?]] The Ombudsman - you couldn't get a better shot. Where was the ombudsman, when the agricultural system was being processed... [[Where were you in 2007?]] ...which was adopted in August 2015? I would like to remind you of one thing - the time for consultation was defined, public, the law was hanging on the pages of the Ministry of Agriculture, 150 organisations from the so-called. the agricultural sector. Don't tell me there was a lack of access to the project and whoever was closing their mouths. You can't say that. [[But you didn't do well.]] On the other hand, the Ombudsman you're talking about... [[But this is not a debate about a spokesperson. This is a debate about land.]] ...he spoke at the last moment, when the inter-ministerial agreement was already over, the time for public consultation was over, but there were very disturbing articles in the proper media about this law. [[Because it's not enough money.]] [[No, Minister, you're telling stories.]] I'd like to ask you again to calm down. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And we're going to have a discussion about the print that we passed on, and this is printing number 293. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u203	Thank you, Minister. [[But you didn't answer the question of whether the shareholders...]] [[Minister, maybe we shouldn't yell... ask people.]] [[Mr. Marshal, can I speak for the club?]] About what? [[To file a motion for rejection at first reading, because I don't know if that's what it sounded like.]] There you go, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u204	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I wanted to file a formal motion for rejection on behalf of the Civic Platform Club to be completed. [[First reading.]] First reading.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u205	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Jarosław Sachaika, Kukiz Poselski Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u206	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz club15 regarding the draft law on the suspension of the sale of the property of the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury and on the amendment of certain other laws. The changes proposed in this project are undoubtedly moving in the right direction. We agree with the argument raised in the justification of the project that agricultural land should be regarded as a common good under the protection of public authority. The aim of these changes is also correct, namely to strengthen the protection of agricultural land against speculative buy-out by foreign and national entities which do not guarantee agricultural production in this area. The current rules governing land trading do not effectively protect agricultural land from speculative buy-out. According to the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber concerning the purchase of State agricultural property by foreigners in West Pomeranian, Mazowieckie and Lower Silesian Agricultural Property Agency, from 2011 to 2013 there were reprehensible practices of uncontrolled sale of land owned by the State to foreign entities. He also pointed out in his report on the purchase of agricultural real estate in the various countries of the European Union, the Brussels Trade Institute. He estimated that in Poland, by means of people, so-called. poles, foreign investors purchased over 200,000. ha agricultural land. These situations shouldn't be happening. The land is the good of the whole nation and once sold will not return to Polish hands. It should therefore be given particular concern and put in place such rules as will guarantee the safety of its marketing. The farmer's income is his job on the family farm, not the rotation of the land. Earth is a work tool for a farmer. True farmers do not profit from the sale of agricultural property, only speculators have it, who have purchased land at underpriced prices, often dishonestly and hope that they will be able to sell it with profit. There can be no permission for such disgraceful actions. Although the project is undoubtedly going in the right direction, it unfortunately contains provisions which raise reservations. It should be noted that the proposed changes hit not only foreigners but also Polish farmers. Firstly, the proposed law accepts the maximum area of the family farm - 300 ha. The question arises: Where does the difference between the average size of the agricultural holding, which in 2015 was just over 10 hectares and the size allowed in the project, come from? The basis of the agricultural system in Poland is the family farm, i.e. of the size which the farmer and his family are able to serve themselves. Certainly, a farm of 300 ha is not able to handle one family properly. [[But, sir, the machines are here.]] For rural residents, land is an overriding value, and the lack of adequate rules to protect the interests of family farms can lead to negative consequences such as unequal income opportunities and reduced market competitiveness. In our opinion, the maximum value should be about 10 times the average size of the farm. [[But the regions are different.]] Polish agriculture should focus on the quality of products, not on the size of farms. We are unable to compete with US farms, Western Europe or even Ukraine. Another problem is the banks, which on a broad... [[What a mess.]] ...a scale of loans for investments in agriculture, mainly on the horror of expensive agricultural machinery, and do not share the responsibility for the success of the investment prepared by the farmer. In the event of insolvency of a farmer, banks will be able to bid on holdings and sell them to non-farmers as this project does not protect against such practices. Since we're making strict rules on who can acquire an agricultural property, if we're going to protect the land from getting into the wrong hands, banks can't be in a privileged position, as they are now in the project. The bank is to be a customer partner, in this case the farmer, and be responsible for the success of the credit investment, as is the case in other countries. In Poland, the gap between banks and customers has so far been enormous. In addition, please note that such regulation opens the door to illegal activities. In conclusion, the sale of real estate of the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury without statutory restrictions will be considered when the amount of direct payments is aligned with the European level and when farmers' income also reaches a level comparable to that of farmers in Western Europe. Today, the differences regarding the wealth of Polish farmers are huge, and foreigners willing to buy land have many times more money and resources than Poles. At this point we hope that Law and Justice will implement their electoral promises in this area as soon as possible and the level of income of Polish farmers will be significantly higher. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u207	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Bartosz Józwiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u208	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I don't have much time left, but I'm gonna try to introduce a few things. Of course, we agree with the need to protect Polish lands. We understand the problems and needs of farmers, and we even want to go against them, and we do this often, as our fellow Members have done. However, the proposed bill is actually some kind of non-work, so we will make a number of amendments to it. I'm just gonna name a few of the most significant ones. Firstly, we want to expand the article. 1a, adding to it that the provisions of the Act do not apply to agricultural real estate located within the administrative limits of cities and agricultural real estate with an area of less than 0,3 ha. These changes will significantly reduce the possible negative effects of the regulation. In our view, it is fatal or even scandalous to limit the possibility of acquiring agricultural land only to farmers and, moreover, to farmers who have lived in a municipality in which one of the agricultural properties of the holding has been located for at least 5 years. Such regulation actually attaches a farmer to his place of residence to a comparable degree as a serf. Moreover, the vast majority of Polish citizens under this law will not have the right to purchase agricultural land, and it will be honest citizens, not speculators. These records bear the marks of unconstitutionality, violations of the principle of equal rights, and conflict with the close idea of deregulation. [[Did you hear what your friend just said?]] I heard. However, in order to meet the need to protect the Polish land, we want to propose some changes. We want to abolish the record that only a farmer can buy land, and instead introduce records that in order to buy land in Poland, the person who makes this act must be a natural person, must show permanent residence in the Republic of Poland for at least 5 years, at a permanent address and intention of permanent residence in Poland, and a record of possible protection of the disposal of the land during the years 15. These are provisions that are taken from deregulations in the European Union, for example in the case of elections to the European Parliament. In our opinion, these records will effectively eliminate all possible pathologies. Finally, we would like to point out that the proposed project completely ignores the so-called case. compensation and compensation for property plundered during communism. Let us remember that the introduction of this law will actually shut down many roads to the so-called. reprivatization, that is, any compensation for former owners robbed by the communist authorities. We are the only country in this part of Europe that has not solved this matter yet. In my opinion, this is a very scandalous element, because building a state for founding theft is a fatal solution, and the application to this day of some Stalin decrees is even a kind of disgrace. Here I have questions for the Law and Justice, because it has the word "Justice" in its name: How do you want to address this matter? Because this is the justice that these people deserve. How are you going to solve some issues? This bill no longer contains, as far as these people are concerned, the right of the original purchase of their wealth. Second thing. How are you going to respond to the palace-park teams that are in the agency's resources and which are entered as agricultural land? Under this law, they will not be disposed of in any way either. In conclusion, I would like to say that the proposed law, although it is intended to implement an urgent and necessary demand to protect agricultural land from speculative or mass buy-out by foreign operators and to give the opportunity to Polish farmers, is implementing it to a very narrow extent and at the same time divides society into different categories, introduces a whole lot of new problems and difficulties, bears the marks of unconstitutionality, has records harmful to farmers and is simply defective. In a word, you pour out a baby with a bath. [[♪ The bell ♪]] However, we are aware of the need for this law, which is why we are giving it a chance. We will vote to refer her to the committee. In this committee, we will make a whole series of amendments. We continue our conduct and vote on whether these amendments will be adopted and whether the law will be revised. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: No... no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u209	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u210	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! First of all, Minister, I might stress that I have an up-to-date bill in my hand, so that there is no doubt. I've noticed some changes that have been made there. Ladies and gentlemen, the aim of the proposed law, as has already been mentioned here, is to protect agricultural property from speculative acquisition, as well as to prevent excessive concentration of agricultural land in Poland. That's probably the right thing to do. It's just that Modern is assuming that the goal doesn't justify the means. New solutions are, in our opinion, exaggerated interference in the rights of owners, a vision of manual control of agricultural land trading in Poland, which is completely unacceptable to us. The Act for 5 years halts the rotation of agricultural land in the resources of the Agricultural Property Agency. Except for this rule, the Minister for Agriculture will be able to apply one person without clearly defined rules, i.e. on a basis of full discretion. We are therefore concerned that the conditions which the Minister will follow in making his decision will not be objective. We are afraid that the conditions that the Minister will follow will actually take into account the political interest of Law and Justice and not the need for the market. We are afraid that such solutions are really pushing us on the path of corruption, cognition and the inclusion of particular party interests in this matter. A farmer who gets land from an agency won't be able to sell it for another ten years, as has already been mentioned here. At that time, he will have to manage it personally. In exceptional circumstances, the court will be able to exempt him from this right, only on a judicial basis. What if, in fact, someone who is completely independent of himself is not able to manage this earth at any time? The bill says that in such a situation the land will be able to take away from him by the agency. According to the amendment, only an individual farmer can become a buyer of agricultural property, both private and public. That's what we've been talking about here, too. It was said that there are different restrictions in the European Union, but let me remind you that the definition of a farmer in the European Union is quite different from the definition set out in the law we are talking about today. According to the present draft law, there are in principle greater restrictions in respect of private property than those concentrated in the resources of the Agricultural Property Agency. In this respect, restrictions on immovable property other than agricultural activities were not excluded. Please note, Minister, that this exemption applies only to part of the resources held by the Agency. The acquisition of agricultural property by other entities will require the approval of once again undertaken on a one-person basis, also discretionaryly, on the basis of a more detailed indication. This time the decisions will be taken by no one else, only the president of the Agricultural Property Agency. Companies and cooperatives that have so far operated and managed on the basis of the principles of the free market in the countryside and ran agricultural holdings will no longer be able to purchase their land. Moreover, the Agency will have the right of first purchase in respect of the shares of commercial law companies in which agricultural land is located. In relation to companies operating in the countryside, the right to buy back land occurs at the moment of the change of ownership structure, also from father to son. And here as if the children's continued work of the current owner of the company will be threatened. The law therefore limits the right to inherit, including the right to donate and to sit. This last right will be limited within 3 years to individual farmers only. Applicants refer to the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, which states that the country's agricultural system is based on a family farm. However, many other constitutional rights that have been violated by this law have not been taken into account, among others. property rights, freedom of economic activity, equality with respect to the law, including the right to equal protection of interests and property rights. Experts stress that, according to the case law of the European Court of Human Rights concerning property rights, the legislator should maintain a reasonable proportion between the measures applied and the objective to be pursued by State action, including those leading to the collection of private property. In limiting the exercise of property rights, the needs of the social interest and the requirements of the individual's rights should be balanced. This jump to agricultural land is treated as a transition, as I said, for manual control of the rotation of land in Poland. The Poles were sure that these times after 1989 were forgotten, it turns out that they did not. This bill is an excessive state interference with private property. Such an approach can ultimately simply lead to investment paralysis in this area of real estate in Poland. The law will further deepen the problem of overly fragmented agrarian structure, and the slow pace of change in this area, as we know, results in a low concentration of forces and opportunities today. The Minister said that such sharpenings exist throughout the Union. The Union is directed towards not concentrating the earth in one hand. Only the Minister forgot to add that the average farm in the European Union is much larger than the average farm in Poland, because Polish farms are among the smallest in the European Union. The average agricultural area of approximately 17 ha is twice the size of the area in the countries of the old Union. This makes it often difficult for Polish farmers to compete with farmers from the European Union, Western Europe. This law, in our opinion, will further worsen the position of Polish agriculture in relation to agriculture in Europe and in the world. As regards the opinion on compliance with Union law, we read that it is to be expected that the proposed legislation will be subject to a thorough analysis by the European Commission of its compliance with Union law. When analysing the proposed restrictions in the context of the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union, it is expected that they may be challenged by the European Union. Consequently, the Commission may initiate formal infringement proceedings against Poland and, in the absence of such an infringement, bring an action against Poland before the Court. Ladies and gentlemen, there are still many provisions in the bill that can be raised and questioned here. In view of all the comments I mentioned and those that could still be discussed here for a long time, the Modern Club will ask for the rejection of this law at first reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u211	Thank you, Member. And please take the floor of Mr Władysław... Excuse me, Minister Babalski has asked for the floor. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u212	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Forgive me, there is no definition of individual farmer in EU legislation. Each country shall define this definition in any way. [[Voice from the room: Personal.]] There is no such thing as the individual farmer rule in the European Union, it simply does not exist. Therefore, do not mislead Members and Hearing Officers and viewers. I want to strongly deny: this is not a jump on Polish soil. This is what I agree with about the words you used in a gentle way: you want to control the Polish land. We want Polish soil to be cultivated by people who are qualified for this. If they don't have them, they can get those qualifications. This law also allows these people, if they are qualified, to deal with the Polish agricultural land. It's written in this bill. Just like any other profession - to do it well, you need to have the right qualifications. A farmer can also be a good, great lawyer, but he needs to be qualified for it. [[Voice from the room: But this is a terrible mistake.]] So let us stick strictly to what is written. It's a pity that you're making a motion for rejection, because maybe you'd be more of an equal partner in the agricultural committee, but I think we'll discuss it in the agricultural committee anyway. And now to a colleague who had this brief speech and was so agitated. I'm not gonna name it so I don't get a chance to answer it right away. I just want to explain one thing. Agro-War - unfortunately, there is a really very difficult situation, these are former employees of PGR, it is also true, only that this company, like many other entities - if necessary, in the committee we will present it - did not submit to the provisions of the law for which we unfortunately voted together. I'm just reminding you of that. [[I don't.]] There was no 30% exemption for this company and there was a problem - only one, not that the agency wanted to take over this land. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, the Agricultural Property Management Act, Art. 29, also says that any former employee of the PGR may take part in a limited tender... [[Jesus Christ, Minister...]] ...may take place in a restricted tender and may set up and run a family farm. [[Voice from the hall: What if he has shares in this company?]] Thank you. I think I've explained. [[Not really.]] We did a little bit together, sir, a little bit that we put our hands together, yes, in 2011. [[Voice from the Chamber: I did not vote in favour of...]] Where were we then, together? Where were we at the lease bill, sir? Thank you very much. [[I certainly wasn't in favour.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u213	Thank you. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska asked for a corrigendum. Please, in corrigendum mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u214	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As far as the definition of individual farmer is concerned, of course, I meant that in most countries of the European Union it looks quite different than in Poland, and as for those countries to which the Minister referred - such a strong narrowing about the person who can manage in the countryside, there is probably nowhere. As far as agricultural qualifications are concerned. The Minister himself said that 29 modern Members, who are Members for the first time and who have often entered this House without political qualifications, can be nice partners for talks. Maybe it's worth opening the village to new fresh blood and letting new young people who, although not qualified, can prove to be great individual farmers. I also spoke quite extensively about the fact that the law in many places does not specify the conditions under which different decisions will be issued, very important from the village's point of view. We have great concerns about what criteria will be used to make these one-man decisions. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: We will spread these concerns.]] Well, if that's the case... I presume that the motion for rejection at first reading will be rejected by the force of law and justice, and we will therefore work on the draft in committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u215	Thank you. And please take the floor of Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u216	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The land is a value, the land is a guarantee of food security of Poland. The measure of daily patriotism is our taking care of this value, taking care of the land, but the taking care of the land and protecting the land must be done on principles that also result from taking care of Polish farmers. Presented, presented by the government, the law treats Polish farmers as foreigners. [[Worse.]] This bill that you are presenting has aroused emotions in the countryside since its publication. This bill, which you are presenting today - and you say that you want to protect Polish land - will reduce the development of Polish agriculture. This law will block the modernisation of Polish farms, enter the right of inheritance, hinder the exercise of public functions, show that you do not trust Polish farmers. [[Applause]] We adopted - Polish People's Party is in favour of protecting Polish land - last year's law, which guarantees protection of Polish land from speculation, from so-called. poles. But not in front of Polish farmers. Mr. President Duda signed it. I don't think you doubt President Duda, you won't say he was wrong. Polish agriculture and Polish land are today one of the biggest brands we can present in the world - Polish agri-food products. You want to take away the right of self-determination from Polish farmers. What did Polish farmers do to you that you did not believe in them today? They voted for you, but you act by the rule: vote, and now adjust. [[Applause]] You propose a law that causes confusion in the Polish village, introduces chaos in the Polish village. This bill could lead to a lot of conflict. Every day people come to our parliamentary offices with fears. Why don't you believe in Polish farmers? Polish peasant, even though there was no Poland on maps of Europe and the world, took care of Polish land and there was Poland everywhere, where this land was cultivated. He passed it on from generation to generation, wrote it down in his wills. We can read in peasant wills the following statements: I write down 4 morga of land, meadow under the forest, horse and cart, but a special sentence is at the end - and yet I write down Poland for you to take care of it. To take care of Poland means to grow Polish land and the Polish peasant knows how to do it, you do not have to teach him. You trust institutions, you don't trust Polish farmers. [[Applause]] This is a fundamental dispute in this bill that should be combined. The bill presented in the previous term brought Parliament, various parliamentary factions and the President together. And today you reject all those records and you want to present your, like, better bill. But where is she better? In those where you interfere with property, the possibility of development, modernization, the value of land that could fall? You're looking for an enemy in the country. Today, many farmers who have trusted you in the elections have gone and voted for you, come and say, We have been wrong. [[37 to 3.]] He comes and says we're wrong. Because PiS doesn't trust Polish farmers. [[Applause]] You don't believe in Polish farmers. Polish peasant knows his rights and obligations. It is a duty to take care of the land, to pass it on from generation to generation, but the law is that the property of this land, that taking care of this land gave birth to the peasant and made him the host of Poland. Poland must be firmly rooted in the earth to preserve its identity, nationality, property to preserve its values. You want to cut down these roots because you don't believe in Polish peasants, you don't trust them. But you have a chance. Thank you for this declaration by the Minister, who spoke about openness to amendments. It is best that you withdraw from this law and enter into force this adopted last year. [[Do you still believe that?]] You guys are cutting down roots that have grown into the ground, and that's what's gonna cause the whole tree and the crown to fall. You can be sure of one thing that Polish People's Party on behalf of the Polish village will defend every skiba of Polish land. [[Applause]] For the sake of the village, Polish farmers, but also those who want to choose the village as a place to live and want to move to it, this law should be rejected at first reading and I submit this proposal on behalf of the Polish People's Party. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u217	You asked for the floor of Minister Babalski. You're welcome, Minister. [[It's not over yet.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u218	Mr. Marshal! Dear Minister, You don't have to listen to me at all, I don't require you to do that because I had a speech here and showed you the provisions of this bill. You don't have to listen to me, but it would be worth it... [[But stop the time.]] ...Mr. Minister, it's a good idea to read this bill. Minister, if necessary, I will repeat briefly: what you were talking about, under no circumstances, in this bill, the draft law, I clarify, is not touched, under any circumstances. Now is not the time here, but in the committee, as it will be necessary, we will discuss it until we prove that as you read well and understand these records well, you cannot scare the farmers that the father is threatened, because that's what we call it, because in the country it's said by the father, simply. There is no such record in this bill. [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: There he is.]] I'm asking what you said today at the press conferences, not to repeat it in this room, because it's just not true. Please review the provisions of this bill, I require nothing more from you, and I expect nothing more from you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u219	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Mirosław Maliszewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u220	Dear Marshal, Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The Minister called for the discussion to be substantive, but first we have to settle on the scale of the harmfulness of this law for Polish agriculture and only next can we move on to a substantive discussion. This law basically illusoryly protects against the purchase of Polish land by foreigners, because it does not really change anything about poles, because it does not inhibit this activity. This bill is harmful in several places. When it comes first to the circulation of state land, it is harmful, because as far as all these pathological phenomena are concerned, which you have spoken of throughout the history of your existence as Law and Justice in Parliament, among others. the so-called. farmers from Marszałkowska, about those who only use the land in order to receive subsidies, in this law you preserve this, prohibiting for 5 years the possibility for individual farmers to acquire this land. Besides, you also referred to the constitution, to this provision, which states that the basis of the agricultural system is a farm, family, individual, and in a moment you say that there are certain exemptions from this constitution and you are hiding yourself from concern for food security of Poland, claiming that this property right can be undermined at certain moments. Since you respect Art. 23 constitutions, then give Polish farmers the opportunity to buy Polish land so that they can permanently manage it so that they can develop their farms. This is one of the harms of this bill. But the second harm is that you started interfering in this law in the marketing of private land, which is in Poland, also the one which is the result of inheritance, because in one of the elements of this... [[This is an outrage.]] ...you write the law that even the one who will be given has a duty - if not, then explain it, Minister, because that is the record - for 10 years personally to lead this land, to live in the territory of this community. So, if that's not true, then make a record that will allow young people not to be afraid of the risk and take over the land from their parents. [[Applause]] In fact, no one has the right, not even in the bill, to enter the rights of inheritance. No one has the right, because no one entered this right of inheritance in the communist system or during the partitions. It was their parents who decided who they were going to give this land to, and whoever was the heir of this land, taking responsibility for the work of their parents, grandparents, decided whether or not he was going to grow this land or set it off. And that's an inviolable matter. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] But what else are you making this bill? You are concreteizing all the activity in the Polish countryside, because you have introduced a record that says that those who are active, I am speaking figuratively, who have undertaken another production activity in rural areas, who have another source of income, because they are active, they are not only farmers, they will not be able to buy above a certain area of this land. So why upgrade programs, why encourage people to create micro-enterprises in rural areas when you say you mustn't buy this land? [[Applause]] I mean, that's the kind of record you guys just made. I would also like to say that even the most elaborate fantasies of PiS economists do not say that the efficiency of the farm is not affected by its surface. One of the weaknesses of Polish agriculture is its fragmentation. Our law, which was procedated last year, talked about the need to increase farms to make them more effective so that they would win international competition. It is not area subsidies that win international competition, but management efficiency and product efficiency. What do you write in this bill in this regard? You say you mustn't expand, because as you might call it, if a farmer can only buy land in his own municipality, and in the neighboring municipality, which is located 1 km, 2 km or the farmer already owns a plot there, he can't buy this land. In fact, we can discuss today whether this law is the result of the state's misunderstanding of rural problems, the misunderstanding of phenomena that occur in Polish agriculture, or whether this law is the result of harmful effects on this agriculture. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I hope it's just the first one, which is misunderstanding. And believe you that we will look closely at this law at the various stages of legislative work. This call by the Minister to have a substantive discussion. That's the kind of discussion we're gonna have. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u221	Thank you, sir. And you asked Minister Babalski to speak. [[After each, the Minister speaks.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u222	I quote: The sharpenings about which... [[How about that after-inheritance pickup?]] [[Voice from the hall: How about this inheritance?]] [[A voice from the room: Is it an heir's duty or not?]] Different. Relations in the protection of Polish land against uncontrolled buyout are also intended to serve the proposed amendments to other laws. I am returning to the Act of 11 April 2003 on the shaping of the agricultural system. It is assumed that only individual farmers will be able to buy agricultural real estate in principle. Mr PSL Members, we speak one language, as we speak about individual farmers. We speak one language. [[Unless the bill says otherwise.]] You've been talking about this for eight years. For 8 years, you spoke primarily of a Polish individual farmer. We're not doing anything else. We are not proposing, we are also working to increase these small farms. I read further: As a rule, only individual farmers, that is - some - farmers with agricultural qualifications. Agreed or not, for God's sake? I address PSL, which defends Polish land, Polish village. Is that okay with you? Okay. Was it in your bill? It was. Minister, you say everything's been thrown out. It wasn't fired. Some records have been accepted. [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: Why this bill?]] Do you remember what was the total criticism of the August 2015 Act? I'm not gonna remind you of that. I don't wanna just be mean. I continue to read: Farmers with agricultural qualifications, who have personally been holding for at least 5 years a holding with an area not exceeding 300 hectares - a family holding of agricultural land - and who live on that holding, as well as under social insurance of farmers to the full extent where the area of the holding exceeds 20 hectares. I would also like to encourage discussion on this subject. We'll be open to it. I said that there will be good substantive amendments, we will discuss this. These requirements... [[Voice from the Chamber: What about inheritance?]] Don't worry, gentlemen. Let me finish. These statutory requirements will not apply to the acquisition of agricultural property by the local government units of the State Treasury - and here, I have repeated this twice - and in particular, mainly to the acquisition by persons close to the seller, i.e. preliminary, siblings, children, siblings, children of siblings, spouse, fosterers and adapted persons, which means that it will still be possible to transfer agricultural property, e.g. for children, through a donation contract. Next: Agricultural real estate can also be acquired through inheritance. Okay. Why are we writing this down? Because you've warmed up this atmosphere so much that we thought we should just type it in. And you're telling me that it was never written. It was written in the Civil Code. There isn't now, but it was written. And you say it wasn't at all. It was, I can prove it to you. And did what I said to you now... Where is the emotion here, please say, the so-called. Fatherhood? Stop really scaring these people that my father... [[I'm already crying.]] I'll tell you more, you say if he does, he's gonna have to have an agricultural qualification. [[No, he's gonna have to run the farm himself.]] If there's a father, the son could be a cosmonaut. He doesn't have to have agricultural qualifications. He'll just have the right to this land. Not much of that, nor will there be a limited area, which you are not talking about. [[What about driving?]] If your father wants to pass 500 ha, then if it's in the form I'm talking about right now, it's going to be 500 ha, not just up to 300, so... [[Self-drive, Minister.]] ...don't tell me these laws are limited. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]] [[Let's get this inheritance straight.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u223	Thank you, Minister. In the procedure of correcting Mr Mirosław Maliszewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u224	Dear Minister, Then explain to everyone what it means to change the 12th article. 9, that if the purchaser of agricultural property - and the buyer is also the one given, a few articles earlier you write about it - during the period referred to in Article. 2b, i.e. within 10 years, has not taken up or ceased the holding and, in the case of a natural person, the personal holding in which the acquired agricultural property entered into does not fulfil the obligation referred to in Article. 2a, the court, at the request of the agency, shall decide on the acquisition of ownership of that property by an agency acting in favour of the Treasury for payment of the equivalent monetary value corresponding to the market value established by the Agricultural Property Agency. This is the record of inheritance. [[Applause]] [[Court at the agency's request.]] [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: For clarification, Minister.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u225	Ladies and gentlemen... [[Voice from the room: Relax.]] ...calm down, that's right. Minister... [[There's no answer.]] High Izbo, we're at a point... [[Nationalism or not?]] ... questions from parliamentarians. If the Member, you, I apologize, Minister Babalski has decided to respond to this point, then please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u226	Please read the article. Article 2b (2) (b) Four, you'll have an answer. [[Amendment 12: In Article 9...]] [[Voice from the room: Give these articles.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u227	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, 50 ladies and gentlemen have joined the floor. If there are no more reports, I'm closing the list of people who are written down for questions. [[I'm asking the question.]] In view of such a large number of registered persons, I set the time to ask questions for 1.5 minutes. I ask both the right side, the middle and the left side of the room to stick very precisely to that time, because I will simply be forced to turn off the microphone, and I would like to avoid it. I ask you to abide by this principle. Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk will be the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u228	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Securing Polish land is in the interest of all of us. The earth is not just ours, it belongs to future generations as well. We tread on it because our ancestors once fought for it until the last drop of blood. I am a farmer and I support these actions. However, there are voices that by this new provision investors will cease to develop because not all municipalities have a spatial planning plan that they will not be able to acquire parcels. There are voices that Polish land will lose value. Finally, there are voices that city dwellers will not be able to build a house in the countryside. There are voices that farmers who lease land will be afraid to invest in it. Please respond to these concerns, the votes addressed to us by our Members. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u229	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u230	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Fatherhood is today's theme. I am afraid that changes may violate the Constitution of the Republic of Poland on property rights and the right of inheritance. If not, please correct my reasoning. This is the land that the father wants to give to his son, who is an artist. This son, the artist, gets this land, and what? Does he have to do it himself, or does he have to lease it to someone? [[He can't.]] Can he sell it to anyone? Can he have it freely? Because if he can't... [[He can't.]] ...this is a limitation of ownership in a natural and simple way. If the Agricultural Property Agency finds that the artist does not work on this land personally, will he be able to take the land as a result of an administrative decision? [[Yes.]] Well, that's really unconstitutional. Will it also be a one-man decision, the one-man decision to take this land, the one-man decision of the President of the Agricultural Property Agency, or will the court be able to speak? Because if the court can't speak, what are the laws that are being violated here? The rights of personal liberty and inheritance. Minister, why won't the two professionals paying ZUS contributions be able to buy more land? [[No.]] Why can't they buy more land? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And the last...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u231	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u232	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u233	Please take the floor of Mr Sławomir Nitras.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u234	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! You ban land trafficking and you give Minister Jurgiel the exclusive right to decide without any criteria which transaction is legal. Mr Ardanowski said in the debate that people who decided to sell land from ANR were among the most influential people in Poland. He said that by presenting a bill that assumes that one person will now decide about any sale. You have proposed that Minister Jurgiel will decide on the basis of his socio-economic impact assessment. Imagine a farmer in the Western Pomerania, he needs to expand his farm. Minister Jurgiel, who is from Podlasie, will decide whether or not he will decide in Warsaw, and will assess this on the basis of the socio-economic effects of the farmer's purchase of land in Pyrzyce. This ban on land trafficking... [[No, the agency, Mr. President of the agency.]] ...it's a Yurgielian coup that will actually change our social and economic reality. This work, this law should be called: Krzysztof Jurgiel I do not know what Polish farmers have done to you, but do you realize that you are trying to deny the basic principles of law and economics, and the consequences of this anti-Copernic revolt in the Polish village will be borne by Polish farmers? Minister Babalski said that the land should be in the hands of people with the right qualifications. Let me say that, in my humble opinion, power should also be in the hands of those with appropriate qualifications. You have spent most of your time presenting various European solutions to the High House in order to prove that this project is similar to them. [[♪ The bell ♪]] My question, Minister: Is there a country in Europe...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u235	I'm asking you, sir, but...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u236	...in which there is a statutory ban on the sale of land in the Treasury resources? [[There isn't.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u237	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor, sir... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: May I still?]] You're welcome. You asked Minister Babalski for a vote at this point.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u238	Mr President, power should be in the right hands, that is correct. This was the case on 25 October 2015. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Don't insult Minister Jurgel, it's inappropriate. Are we going to discuss substantively, or are we just going to insult each other? I repeat to you once again: the Committee on Agriculture will be so that we will simply dispel all kinds of doubts there as well. I invited you to do so at the very beginning, so I would ask you to refrain from making malicious comments about the constitutional minister, Mr President. [[And where is he because he's not in the smoking room?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u239	Please, in the procedure of correcting Mr Nitras.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u240	Minister, you misunderstood me. I wasn't talking about Minister Jurgel. I was talking about the ban on land trading that Minister Jurgiel is proposing. That's the fundamental difference. I would not really devote time to Minister Jurgiel from this speaker, but the problem of banning land trading in Poland, the absurd law that you are trying to introduce, is something that should be mentioned in this House. And don't mess with the two cleanings. I'm not talking about the person, I'm talking about the problem. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: I did not provoke...]] [[Voice from the room: No, we're done.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u241	High Izbo! Please, we're only on the third parliamentarian. If we introduce an element of purely malicious polemics to each question, we will not finish this point by hours. 22. So I ask you, first of all, your parliamentarians, to ask substantive questions and to refrain from being malicious... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mr Jurgel, I am still grateful that you did not say that Mr Jurgel was a woman, since you so often referred to Copernicus. [[Marshal, I'll leave this to you.]] Thank you. And you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u242	I, Mr. Marshal, will refrain from answering, too, because I may be too expressive to do so, because I have been working on this bill for a while, and I am responsible for it. Therefore, I know the content of this law, which is why I cannot accept statements which are simply false in some statements. I'm sorry about my, sometimes, expression. It's not what it looks like. Mr Pierce, it's all right now. Once again, I have to react in situations where the words say that this law bans the trading of Polish soil. This law does not prohibit the trading of Polish land. This law prefers the turnover of Polish land among farmers, which today is at 80% Imagine, and use such words. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u243	Thank you, Minister. And please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Gadowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u244	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! A lot of words in this room were raining. There were also important and valuable ones: that the land is a value, that agricultural property protects the food security of Poland. It is true, but not long ago in Poland we have heard words addressed to farmers: Connect, create cooperatives, create companies of commercial law, fight with entrepreneurs who buy your products, who contract them with you, join. And today we say unto them, No, ye cannot buy the land, not a half a hectare, nor an ara. [[Voice from the room: What's he saying?]] Minister, I wanted to ask you what you are proposing today to those active farmers who want to take care of the food security of Poland, who want to develop, want to protect their families, give them a better life, create new conditions for them. What do you offer them today? [[PRL.]] What does this bill suggest to these people? Minister, second topic: two professionals. They appear all over Poland, somebody has a piece of land, today works hard, also earns a living and always makes money on this land because they grow some game, they have some vegetables there. Will they be able to later, when they retire, buy such a piece of land, and today protect themselves from it... [[♪ The bell ♪]] So that they can enjoy the benefits of old age? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u245	Thank you very much. And please take the floor of Mr John Slopata.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u246	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask, because - it is probably purely a coincidence - you are withholding the possibility of buying, the name of this, the state land for a period of 5 years, and this is the right for you, and at the same time in the 9th change in the definition of a farmer you enter the obligation to live at least 5 years in the municipality. Exactly, is it a coincidence, or is it an expectation that today's tenants will report to the municipality? Second question or question. In many farms in Lublin, where I come from, the custom is practiced - or maybe it was a compulsion - work or earning money by one of the spouses, co-owners, I will mark, because it is important, of the same farm. The Minister will explain the status of this farm today and the possibility of its development under this law, which you will probably carry out. And one more thing. It's probably not relevant to the PiS, but it's an art. 64 of the Constitution says that everyone has the right to property, other property rights and the right to inherit. This bill is another violation of the Constitution by the PiS. [[Voice from the room: Janie!]] And final conclusion. It's more of a thank-you to the club authorities, basically to the author of this bill, I think it's the same person for years. You don't know this yet, but your retreat from the village has just begun. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u247	Please take the floor of Mrs Bożena Kaminska. There is no Member. In that case, please take the floor of Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u248	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Well, as a matter of fact, if PiS takes a bill, it usually goes in the opposite direction. This was the case with large-scale shops: it was supposed to help Polish shopkeepers, but it was directed against them. [[Applause]] Now we have an anti-speculation bill to help Polish farmers, but it hits them. So we come to the conclusion that here the government is beginning to speculate, and this speculation is probably due to the fact that it does not love Polish farmers very much, does not know how to help Polish farmers, because it has made too many of these declarations to Polish farmers in elections. For example, somebody had already raised it - the subsidies were to be evened out. We're not hearing anything right now. I don't think you've taken care of it. The economy in agriculture was about to improve. The economy, Minister, was to improve in agriculture. The tragedy is happening right now. [[Applause]] A few months of your reign... [[Voice from the room: you were 8 years old.]] ...prices fall on all goods. Have you taken any action? On the other hand, the Minister says that this is to secure additional income to the budget, this speculation of the Polish land. Is this proper speculation, Minister, on a Polish farmer? I don't think so. I have a question. In Podkarpacie, how many such speculators of foreigners who bought the Podkarpacie land, the Polish land? 'Cause we're always talking about blocking the buyout of foreigners. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Are there any cases in the Podkarpacie? How many cases are there, Minister? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u249	Thank you, sir. And please take the floor of Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u250	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As you can see, everyone asks and raises very individual and specific issues for the regions in which they live. My question, but also my concern, is also about where I live and what I observe. Well, I live in a community where the first class of land prevails, and farmers have dominated this land for many, many generations in the highest culture in family farms. But it also prevails - and it's an undisclosed but open - German option. Most of them They're binationals with double citizenship. Is the restriction and so-called. speculation of the Polish land, and the nationalization of this land and farmers is also supposed to cause concern in them? Because it seems that these fears may be right after PiS proclaimed national education, national media, and now national land and the introduction of new standards into Europe... [[What's she saying?]] ...like Minister Zalewska She has announced to us which Europe is not waiting for somehow. Do these farmers have the right to fear that after all these National nationalization of the land, and then, unfortunately, national democracy? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u251	Please take the floor of Mr Marcin Święcicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u252	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It seems to me that this law may be governed by good intentions, but it is simply extremely over-regulated. Minister, if someone buys their land according to your rules, I don't know, 30 ha or something... [[How's he gonna buy it? How's he gonna buy it? He won't buy it now.]] ...but even if it were possible to fit into these rules... [[Voice from the room: It won't work.]] ...but he's gonna want a piece of this land not to grow in person, but a neighbor's meadow over there to get that neighbor to use this meadow for a while, is that even possible if there's a condition that he has to grow himself? [[Voice from the room: For 10 years.]] What about the value of the land? If the value of the land as a result of the fact that there will be much less buyers and will be significantly reduced turnover, will fall, I don't know, by half, by 20% or even by 10%, we will reduce the lending capacity of our farmers by many billions, because the land is often a pledge on loan. If the credit capacity of farmers falls by many billions of zlotys, after all, their development, investment and modernization of Polish agriculture and its competitiveness will simply fall dramatically. What happens to a farmer who has 100 ha or 200 ha in his municipality and wants to sell it for some reason and doesn't find a buyer in his own municipality? What kind of peripeties will he have to go through so he can sell this land to someone else, some other community, some other voivodship? We must realise that there are voivodships where the average size of the farm is small, and there are those where they are much larger. Can't you buy land in another voivodship, e.g. For your children, or sell them to someone? What's gonna happen to those people who are just two jobs? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And they're co-owners of the land, they work in the commune...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u253	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u254	...work at some farm or some other...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u255	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u256	...paying a decent ZUS? Why can't they have land...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u257	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u258	...just have to enter the KRUS, which is symbolic? I'm asking for your answer, Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u259	And I invite Mrs Zofia Czernow to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u260	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Will not the law of economics be respected in Polish agriculture along with the new law, and the main criterion, and basically the only criterion will be the family farm and the manual control of land trading? Because how do you understand the bans on Polish farmers purchasing land with 300 hectares? Because how do you understand the attachment of farmers to a particular community, like the already mentioned peasant of serfdom? Why can't such a farmer buy land in a neighbouring municipality with which he borders, which is a young farmer, run a small farm and wants to grow? For how do you understand the bans on the acquisition of land by young Poles who were never farmers, but who have chosen such a way of life and have not yet passed five years since they checked into a given municipality? These are very serious questions. And I have a very specific question: What are the preferences for young farmers? Because they don't come from the bill at all. Are these restrictions on the acquisition of land really concern for Polish farmers? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u261	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Richard Wilczyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u262	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Abstract from the overall assessment of the project, it must be said that your speech was extremely reliable. I really liked it very much and let me be honest: this is one of the better ministerial presentations. But, Minister, why is this mockery of the ombudsman, another fuse for the democratic rule of law? It wasn't nice or pretty. It should be noted that on 24 February, and so recently, the Ombudsman formulated and wrote to you a letter from the Prime Minister in which he expressed a number of reservations, significant reservations, which affect the state of the debate and perception of your project. Would you kindly explain whether print project 293 is the same project as the spokesperson's opinion or not? This is important. [[Voice from the room: No.]] Another issue, namely the potential decline in the value of the earth. Marcin Święcicki spoke about this. The important point is that it needs to be addressed, Minister, because the rotation of the earth will become rigid. A number of actors will also be eliminated, a number of potential actors in the process, and this must result in a reduction in land prices and will have serious consequences. And one last thing. Why this anachronism of attachment of the peasant to the commune? [[Voice from the room: To the ground.]] Minister, today it takes 1,000 hours to rob 100 ha. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Isn't that anachronistic?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u263	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u264	Let these people live wherever they want. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u265	Thank you very much, sir. And please take the floor of Mr Zbigniew Biernat. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: Mr. Marshal, I must answer now, but substantively, okay? But we have to answer that question.]] [[At the end.]] Minister, but... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: You must answer.]] [[Minister, at the end.]] Okay, but I'll ask you here, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: On private turnover I would like to say.]] [[In the end, you're gonna die, man.]] Please take the floor of Mr Zbigniew Biernat.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u266	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! A lot of excitement in this room. [[Voice from the room: What emotions?]] Let me remind you, Commissioner, that it was not the courts that nationalized the land, but the decrees of the communists. [[Now there's gonna be agencies.]] Also referring to what has been said here about the lack of the necessary qualifications, please countries, such proof that the agricultural resort has allowed for many years to take over huge areas of breeding ponds just without being qualified, is the joint economy. You can see how effectively destroyed for many years. [[Applause]] The most important question today, ladies and gentlemen, and the questions that concern society, are the issue of inheritance, Minister. As a result of the misinformation provided by many Members, the failure to read the project from this printing, which we are analysing today, is such a message in the Polish village that children will not inherit farms from their parents. I'd like the Minister to answer that question. [[Exactly.]] And the second question, more related to the article on the introduction of a 5-year ban on sales. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u267	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u268	Is it really in the article? In paragraph 2, the first paragraph is replaced by the following: 1 should not include: tourist areas? This applies primarily to historical objects. [[Time's up, sir. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u269	Thank you, sir. Would you like to see the Minister? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: I will refer to the previous issue.]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u270	Thank you very much. I'm sorry, Mr. Marshal, I promised I wouldn't speak, but I have to explain, because these questions might come up again. There is no restriction on the municipality in private trade. I ask you to read this in the bill. Don't ask and don't talk about it. In private trade there is no restriction that in a given municipality or neighbouring municipality - in private trade. On the market from the stock, if there is an unlimited tender, there is no indication that only in this municipality and neighbouring one - in an unlimited tender. I'm asking you to read this because you're repeating this version for the first time. [[Where's the story?]] [[5 years of residence in the municipality.]] On the other hand, I did not mean to offend your ombudsman in any way, but I do not know for sure, but after reading this letter, after reading this letter, I had the impression that you had read the draft law that was suspended on the pages and not from print No 293. That's it, that's it. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: It just hasn't been there yet.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u271	Thank you, Minister. And please take the floor of Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u272	Dear Marshal, High Seym! Minister! I declare from this place that I have always been, I am and will be a fierce defender of Polish land. [[Oh, bravo.]] [[Bravo.]] To all those who practice demagogy in this Chamber, that the barrier of infirmity is only now being interrupted, I would remind you that this barrier of infirmity in this case was interrupted by the Polish People's Party in 2015. [[Applause]] And whoever defended this infirmity, I will not be like you in this room. [[And the platform.]] And now for a specific question. Minister, you are banning the sale of land from the Agricultural Property Agency for 5 years, not only for foreigners, but also for Polish farmers who were hoping to expand their farms. In this period, a huge number of land lease contracts expire by 2020. I want to ask the Minister: How many lease agreements for Polish land will expire during this period? Will they be extended for the next several decades so that after 5 years the Polish farmer learns that there is no chance of expanding his farm? Question two. By the law adopted in the previous term of office, we have introduced a solution whereby the Agricultural Property Agency's off-road branches will create committees for the sale of land. Their members were to be representatives of ANR, agricultural chambers, local government and two members of agricultural organisations. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u273	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u274	These committees were to give an opinion on the tenders. And what do you propose to Polish farmers? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u275	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Paul Beda.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u276	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! According to Law and Justice, for a farmer to be a farmer, he must be insured only in KRUS. This means that no non-agricultural activity can be carried out, nor can there be any public function. The farmer according to the PiS can only sit in the country. Why are you doing a museum in the Polish countryside? Why are you restricting the civil liberties of the Polish farmer? I would like to remind you that if there are two professionals, then the driver of the voluntary fire department, even the chief who will pay the ZUS, will not be able to participate in buying or selling Polish land. The Legislative Council at the premiere issued an interesting opinion: It is incompatible with the constitution to recognise as an individual farmer, so to give him the right to buy land, only a person who has lived in the municipality where the agricultural property he wants to buy for at least 5 years. It's nothing to do with art. 52 constitutions that give freedom to choose a place of residence. How will the Minister respond to the opinion of the body acting in front of the President of the Council of Ministers? One last thing. Here the Minister said that nothing has changed as regards the right of the original purchase of the Agricultural Property Agency. Namely, the rules have changed. Now the Agricultural Property Agency [[♪ The bell ♪]] will be able to buy the farmer's land at the price at which he wants it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: At speculative price.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u277	Thank you, sir. And please take the floor of Mr Michael Jaros. There's no envoy. In that case, please take the floor of Mr Mieczysław Baszka.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u278	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Act gives great authority to agency officials who will be able to exercise the right of the original purchase on a large scale. The agency will take the land away from Polish farmers. On what basis will the agency expropriate farmers and from what means does it want to finance this, because I do not see the sources of funding? Second question - another reservation of the Legislative Board. Why does the legislator introduce a provision that a farmer is one whose agricultural income represents at least 25% All the revenue you've earned? Why should it be 25% rather than more? And, Minister, I invite you to the Podlaskie Voivodeship... [[Oh, bravo!]] ...for a nationwide exhibition of breeding animals. Podlaski Agricultural Advisory Centre under the marshal of Podlaskie Voivodship - 8 years have not been wasted. Come and see what agriculture is like. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u279	Please take the floor of Mr Michał Wojtkiewicz. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] There's no envoy? In that case, I would ask Mrs Katarzyna Osos to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u280	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! You say that the aim of the project is to protect Polish land and Polish farmers. Yes, it is important to protect the Polish land and Polish farmers, with this nobody discusses, but the project presented by you will not protect them, but it will harm farmers, Polish land and Poles. The proposed regulations are too far-reaching interference in the rotation of land, the right of ownership. The rules concerning, for example, the total cessation of the sale of land, inheritance, the provisions granting the agency a monopoly on the marketing of land are disproportionate measures, in fact the nail to the coffin for Polish farmers. Why do you want to ruin the country instead of supporting the farmers? And this is not my opinion, but the farmers who want to grow want to be competitive, but you want to make it impossible for them. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u281	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Anthony the Man.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u282	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I gladly agreed with you that this bill is 12 years late, but today it is already obsolete in this fundamental aspect, which it is supposed to solve, i.e. not acquiring this land by foreigners, preventing it. It was then, actually. The threat, then we ruled together, and we didn't do it. But just because we didn't do it then doesn't mean that today there's no point in making a bill like that because he solved today. It's a market. At that time the land was cheap, then Western buyers, Western farmers were interested, while today in Poland the price of the land is comparable to the prices of the land in the West. In Kujawy it costs as much as in Bavaria, in Germany's most expensive land, while in other parts the price is roughly comparable to prices in Germany. This problem solved the market for us. Of course, you do not really believe in the market, in the operation of the market and in this economy, while I am shocked by what you are proposing here. I think it's more like a PRL bis with some elements of the 16th century agricultural economy, i.e. with the farmer's attachment to the land, the farmer's attachment to the land with a 10-year order for personal labor on the land. What does that mean, art. 2b relating to Article Seven? Is it really that he has to do everything himself? And do you understand? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is it because you don't agree with other resorts?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u283	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u284	After all, these hands for work will also be needed in the modern industry, which you are proposing to Deputy Prime Minister Morawiecki. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u285	Thank you very much, sir. And please take the floor of Mrs Kinga Gajewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u286	Dear Marshal, Minister! Dear High Izbo! It is already clear why the Constitutional Tribunal has been paralyzed by law and justice. [[The voice from the hall: Oh, my God...]] This law excludes 90% all Polish citizens from the acquisition of agricultural property. It's just an assassination attempt on property. No more state authorities can protect us from the so-called. It's a psicnic. Today, the Agricultural Property Agency can be called an agricultural nationalization agency. How will agricultural property be purchased? Firstly, it is necessary to be an individual farmer, secondly, to reside in that municipality for at least 5 years and to personally run a farm during that period. Those who want to start farming in order to buy such land will have to ask, on their knees, the sovereign president of the agricultural nationalization agency. And now the question. Ladies and gentlemen, is there going to be such a situation that these previously mentioned conditions will require a PiS party card? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Her...]] [[Even the marshal smiled.]] [[Voice from the room: She did it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u287	Thank you, Member. I would like to reassure you that as Vice-Marshal of the Recommendation of Law and Justice, I will always stand by your rights as Members of the opposition and I will abide by the rules of procedure. So that you can be calm, you will be safe in this House. [[Thank you very much.]] [[We get it, we get it.]] [[Yes.]] Please, Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u288	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am aware that the parliamentary majority will vote on this bill. We'll try to work on the committee. And so I think that this print that appeared is definitely better than the project that appeared on the pages. The position of the Modern has been presented, and I have a matter relating to the record which is still in force at the moment, namely the possibility of the purchase of land by former owners and their heirs. I would like to point out that this is not possible in the novels prepared by both the previous government and the state. I believe that historical justice should cause the social group, which paid a terrible tribute to blood, whose members died in Miednoje, Smolensk, Ostaszkow, in the Warsaw Uprising, to be deprived of honor and wealth after World War II... I believe that their descendants have the right to redeem, not in a privileged way, but at market prices, the land that once belonged to their ancestors. I ask the Minister to consider introducing a government self-correction in order to restore the provision which is in force in this law and which is lacking in your project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u289	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Pasyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u290	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Sejm of the previous term passed a very good bill. Today, for purely political reasons, you turn this bill upside down without even giving it a chance to function. I listened very much to your speech, there were many rhetorics and arguments of a political nature, upper-floor slogans. Polish farmers today seem to expect the most concrete. And I wanted to ask what to say today to a farmer who will come to me, perhaps tomorrow, next week, who has small children, who manages, has developed his farm very well - I come from Wielkopolska and there farms are very good, despite what was said here today, they are developing - but he is concerned that the successors will also want to take over this farm, and he would like to give it in the best form. But it will be full of fear that if these successors are not yet able to, because they go to primary school, take a tractor to this field and plow the proverbial tip of the next acres of this land, they will not be deprived of property. I would very much ask for a clear and concrete declaration, because I didn't see her here today, Minister. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The Minister has talked about it several times.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u291	Thank you. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Andzelika Możjanovska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u292	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister, after all, for such a desire to discuss, because this is the first time when pride, boot and arrogance of the government do not win here. I think it's important. Minister, first of all, I am thinking about a few aspects. Why, if so much Law and Justice cares for the optimization of the farm, for effectiveness, for the Polish farmer to be the most competitive and powerful in the export of Polish food, are the land which is today at the disposal of the Agricultural Property Agency, and are only guaranteed for lease? You must bear in mind that there will be a moment after 2020, when there will be a completely different grant policy, also a policy concerning the Polish farmer in the European Union. This is a huge challenge. I have a question about what personal use means. If I have a farm, do I have to use it personally, can I hire a qualified person? Can you sell 300 ha of agricultural land in one area? What is the market value of agricultural land and how will it be counted? Minister, the market economy is a really good mechanism, demand, supply need not be regulated by institutions or individuals, [[♪ The bell ♪]] They're sitting behind a desk. The last punch line...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u293	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u294	Minister, Constitutional Court, Constitutional Court judgments, dismantle of civil service and qualifications...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u295	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u296	...which have been picked up. That's why don't you grow...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u297	Thank you, thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u298	...Polish farmers. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u299	Please take the floor of Mr Marek Sawicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u300	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today we are dealing with the most important and at the same time the most difficult problem. I remember the year 1996, the family farm law. At that time there was also a great uproar, even a thought of a return to communism. I remember very difficult discussions during the 2011 amendment, as well as those of the previous year. At the last amendment, Law and Justice said that the solutions prepared inefficiently, inappropriately, did not exactly protect the Polish land from the purchase by foreigners. You promised me you'd solve this problem. In this proposal, you prohibit the purchase of mainly Polish farmers for 5 years. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Poles.]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] ...and there shouldn't be intermediaries between the land and the farmer. The Agricultural Property Agency is not omnipotent and omniscient - we know very well - regardless of the supervision under which it operates. Therefore, I am very interested in this prohibition and as most leases expire by 2020, whether further disposal and lease will be an extension of leases today existing, whether they will already be new leases under the agricultural system law, [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the area standard mode for the extension of family holdings. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u301	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Margaret Płępek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u302	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The provisions of the draft law restrict too much the rights of private owners of agricultural property. The land purchased by the farmer will not be sold or leased for 10 years. Such a long 10-year ban on the sale of land causes huge controversy. It's even spoken of in terms of some kind of misunderstanding. Suppose a farmer gets into financial trouble for reasons of life or natural disaster, or he becomes seriously ill or someone close to him and needs money. Minister, will he not be able to sell his property in accordance with the provisions of the new law? Will he have to ask the court to consent to the sale? What if the court doesn't agree? Will the bailiff take his farm as a result? Minister! Is this the good change? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u303	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Arthur Dunin.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u304	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Another bill, another legal bullshit, you're spilling the baby with the bath again. Yes, there was full agreement in the previous term that it is necessary to ensure that Polish land stays in Polish hands. Instead of leaning on the law that you have introduced, and possibly making the correct amendments, you are making something completely new, something that is really not in line with the Constitution, not to mention EU law. And again, as on the committee yesterday, you will not report this to the Foreign Minister asking for an opinion or listening to anyone. You did it so the tribunal couldn't judge it. How's it going? And you can hear that. in accordance with Article. Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland Poland protects property and the right of inheritance. The expropriation is permitted only if it is carried out for public purposes and for fair compensation. In the light of Art. Article 64 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and 2 constitutions each have the right to property, other property rights and the right to inherit. Ownership, other property rights and the right of succession shall be subject to equal legal protection for all. Darlings! You destroy Polish agriculture, destroy Polish farmer and destroy Polish land for Polish farmers and Polish citizens. [[♪ The bell ♪]] People, farmers are turning their backs on you...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u305	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u306	...they don't trust you...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u307	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u308	...and walk away from you what they gave... [[Mr...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u309	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u310	...an example on the committee yesterday. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u311	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mr John Warecha.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u312	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The proposed changes to ensure that the agricultural land remains in the hands of actual farmers should be assessed positively. However, I would like to ask you to clarify some of the following points. Will the proposed regulations include in any way those agricultural land buy-back transactions by foreign natural and legal persons that have already been made using the so-called. the poles, although formal acquisition by foreign entities will only take place after 1 May 2016? Should foreign natural persons inherit agricultural land, will it be automatically bought out at market price by the Agricultural Property Agency? Is the provision relating to the obligation to reside for a period of 5 years by a natural person in the commune in which one of the agricultural properties belonging to the established family holding is situated necessary for the purpose of the project? And last question: Is the fact that similar regulations have been applied in other countries of the European Union certain that they will not be challenged by the European Commission as incompatible with EU law? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u313	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Piotr Polak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u314	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! There is much to be said about the functioning of existing laws protecting the circulation of Polish soil. Unfortunately, High Izbo, much more evil than good. Examples of abuse, circumvention or exploitation of loopholes in this area could be multiplied, and numerous agricultural protests, even in the Western Pomeranian voivodeship mentioned here, were a measurable example of this. Today, Minister, we would like to know how much has happened in recent years to the wrong Polish hands of the Polish land. Mr. Chairman, Minister Kamish was afraid here and he said farmers were coming to him scared. And he's telling us... There were examples here, and I'm going to replace them here. Yes, Minister, they also came to me, they only said that PSL in the field and in the media scares Polish farmers that it will not be possible to pass on the land to children, that it will be forbidden to settle in the country for the inhabitants of cities or build houses, that the Polish farmer will not be able to buy land from his neighbour or enlarge the farm that Polish farmers will be taken away from the land. At the time, I thought it was some ridiculous accusation that it was some unbelievable invention. So I think to myself, well, I know my colleagues from the agricultural committee, and I know that they are serious about the subject. Today I know that the state just scares Polish farmers. Unreasonably. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u315	Thank you. [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: Mr Marshal, in correction mode.]] You're welcome. In the mode of correcting Mr Kosiniak-Kamish.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u316	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To scare it away. You can do it. You threatened Polish farmers, Poles, our compatriots because someone wanted to privatize the State Forests. [[Applause]] You've been collecting signatures for a fake project. You've been collecting signatures under a lie. No one ever wanted to privatize the Forests, so really weigh your words, Mr. President. Farmers come and say that a good change is too good for them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[You guys are way out of line.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u317	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Wojciech Wolf.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u318	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In my opinion, you have presented a draft law that is detrimental to the Polish village, a project that restricts the rights of farmers, a project that blocks the development of agricultural holdings. I would therefore like to ask the Minister: Why doesn't PiS have confidence in Polish farmers? You are blocking the sale of real estate belonging to the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury for a period of 5 years. The explanatory memorandum to your project states that the State agricultural land should remain at the disposal of the Agricultural Property Agency. I keep looking: the basic way of developing this land should be leased. Why this dislike of private property towards a person with a passport of another country, but a Polish farmer? Why, Minister, by restricting the rights of farmers, do you give enormous power to the officials of the Agricultural Property Agency? Because it is the Agricultural Property Agency that will have a huge and largely discretionary power. Aren't you afraid of corrupt behavior here and that in this conflict between the Agricultural Property Agency, its officials and the farmer, the agency will always be the top? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u319	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Leszek Ruszczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u320	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We know an example of where the government knew best who should own the land. To this day, agricultural culture has not been reborn there. But I have a specific question: What are you going to say to the family on the verge of bankruptcy, where sickness is at home, and all they have is four ha of fatherhood and selling it on the commercial market will save life and family? That they can't decide the land they've been on since their great-grandfather? That the clerk will decide for them? Isn't that a violation of sacred property rights? And isn't that the way to nationalization of private land? I don't think the Polish village will understand. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u321	I ask the floor of Mrs Dorota Rutkowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u322	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I never thought that from this place I would have to defend the private property of Polish agriculture, not from foreign capital, not from speculators, but from the system of my own country. Minister, you didn't convince me to take over my father freely, but I wanted to draw attention to something else, namely the value of the land. The proposed rules will drastically reduce the number of land buyers. If there are fewer people willing to buy land, then of course the price of land will fall. What will you tell the farmers who took the land-protected investment loans? They already see financial problems ahead of them. After all, the fall in prices will reduce the value of their collateral and the banks will certainly require additional collateral. And one more thing: you yourself mentioned that our farms are fragmented. The average area of non-production farms in Poland is about 10 ha. More than one million of these small farmers are many farm owners who will have no one to give their land to, and for them the farm is a retirement fund. If the prices of land fall, and they probably will, this pension fund will lose its value. They're going to have a very difficult time. What are you gonna offer them? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u323	Thank you, Member. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Anna Sobecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u324	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Polish farmers, worried about the Polish land, long awaited for a bill to come to an end, which will constitute a blockade for speculators and the purchase of land by so-called so-called. poles. However, during the public consultation, it was strongly stressed that children would not be able to inherit the land from their parents, and that the land that had been in the family for generations would fall to a neighbor who, according to the law, would have a greater right to it. Is that true, Minister? Is it true that after 1 May 2016, when it comes to the purchase of land by foreign farmers, these persons will also be required to reside in the municipality for 5 years? What is meant by the record that without the consent of ANR, children will not be able to inherit the economy from their parents, and this despite agricultural education? And yet, is it true that the owner of the land will not be able to sell it or save it to the children unless they are farmers? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u325	Thank you very much, Member. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Anna April.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u326	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The agricultural land is becoming more and more valuable because of a serious food crisis that threatens the world. World Food and Agriculture Organization forecasts that in 2050 the world will need as much as 70%. more food than at present due to population growth. Meanwhile, the world's cultivated land is less and less. It is occupied by expanding cities, built roads, railway lines, water barriers. Food is therefore becoming a strategic commodity, a natural consequence of which is the increasing value and price of the earth. Today, there is a mass buyout of the earth in the world, for example. In Africa, in other countries where business does not grow, it waits for a time when food production will become a really big business, because the hungry world will pay any price for bread. Therefore, Minister, please remind your fellow Members, particularly from the Modern, which administrative barriers hindering the marketing of agricultural land are put in place and are in force in the European Union countries in order to preserve the agricultural land. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u327	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Adam Abramowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u328	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! After World War II, when Poland entered the Soviet sphere of influence, the communists nationalized the property of Polish landowners, took away their manor houses, palaces and many landowners chased them out of our country. Most of them were families for years historically, patriotically oriented, which gave to the Republic of Poland officers, generals, poets, composers. To this day justice has not been carried out, reprivatization has not been carried out in Poland. The only substitute for this justice was the right of pre-emption by the heirs of these families of palaces, already ruined by the communists, many investments must be made there, but without an agricultural environment it is difficult or impossible. I have a request to take this matter into account in further work and to introduce this right to the original. The Law of the First Buy will be limited by all the limitations that the Law brings. It will be limited by the number of hectares, the price is determined by the valuer, [[♪ The bell ♪]] So she's not underrated. I ask you to consider this aspect of the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u329	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Jan Ardanowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u330	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to remind you, at least some of them, that we have been in the European Union for 12 years and the enumerative listing of persons subject to a ban could have been adopted in Poland before 2004 and as an acquired right could possibly have been negotiated with the European Union. At the moment, any sharpening or restriction cannot be precisely mentioned only by foreigners, and I think everyone knows that. We are discussing a very specific text and we need to have a lot of bad will or not be able to read this text with understanding or listen with understanding to say things that are not in this text. What's the transmission coming? A dramatic word for nationalization. [[But it's true. Expropriation.]] The Humiecki party threes will probably go under the cover of the night to pick up the peasant's last cow, grab the grain from the storehouse and rip the borders. That's the message. [[That's what they did.]] Ladies and gentlemen, a little bit of good faith and don't tell me anything stupid. I have a specific question. There's a 20 ha standard that entitles you to work outside the farm. It is important to consider whether it is not to regionalize this, because it may be too restrictive and too low in some regions of Poland. Another mechanism or standard should be introduced, depending on the voivodships. I think this is the solution that needs to be considered. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Especially in Małopolska.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u331	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Killon Munyama.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u332	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It was said that the final is not understandable to many who have spoken today. I would just like the Minister to be able to address such questions as have just been addressed by some farmers. Namely, please explain to me, as an economist of one thing I cannot understand: Will the effect of the reform be a fall in agricultural land prices and significant restrictions on the possibility of disposal? That's one question. Second question. Will this also have a side effect on the possibilities of modernising agricultural holdings, since it will become practically very difficult to finance them with land-based loans? Third question. Will the land actually remain in the hands of farmers, but at the price of reducing its value and development opportunities of the Polish farmer? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u333	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Leszek Korzeniowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u334	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Because of my sympathy, I'm going to ask a slight question, very light. The project envisages a revision of the Law on perpetual books and mortgage, which will enable the Agency to exercise the right of pre-emption by excluding the earlier burden on the property concerned with excessive mortgages not covered by the market value of the property. The question is very simple: How will you cross out? From the front, from the back? Because one thing has to be assumed - today the earth has a certain value. I'm sure it will. There's no other way. Someone signed up for a mortgage today because they need it. So the question is, which way are you going to reduce it? Does the law allow you to remove those people who have already signed up for a mortgage? This, in my opinion, is an open lawlessness. Let me remind you, Minister, that the current price of land in France is 24,000. zł - ordinary Polish zlotys. And talking about these... [[Voice from the room: How much?]] Twenty-four thousand. zł - this is how much agricultural land costs in France, we can check it out. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's why I think there's something wrong with it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u335	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Stanisław Szmijan.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u336	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! And to some of your Members with a request, an appeal: please avoid being irritated by the questions asked, because the legal provisions proposed in this draft law give the possibility for the agricultural real estate agency to buy out, to buy out agricultural real estate and to limit the free circulation of agricultural land, and this will undoubtedly translate into a fall in the value of these properties, because the mechanisms for demand and supply in free circulation will be distorted. These are rules that also apply to the marketing of agricultural land. So the question is simple, Minister: Where is the farmer's business here? After all, this is an obvious act against him. This question may not be important to those 180 thousand. farms of 1.5 million, which are developing but are important for 1320 thousand. holdings [[♪ The bell ♪]] with an average area of 10 ha. It's important to them, that's why...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u337	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u338	...please: less annoyance and more simply substantive answers. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u339	Thank you kindly, sir. Please take the floor of Mr John Duda.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u340	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Is it true that the hidden owners illegally purchased by the people planted hundreds of thousands of hectares of land from the Treasury resource are waiting to become full owners of this land after possible failure to approve this law? Last year Polish farmers protested for 129 days in the defence of the land under the law firm of the Council of Ministers - 4 months, from February to May, in the frost and rain. I was there. Where were you? Where were you when West Pomeranian farmers were shut down like organized crime groups because they wanted to buy Polish land? [[With the farmers.]] Where were you, defenders of Polish farmers? [[Who made the guarantee?]] Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u341	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Zbigniew Ajchler.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u342	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Messengers and Members! Minister! I'm a farmer of flesh and blood. I started at 1.5 ha. When I was going to meet a girl, I was embarrassed because of my prints on the job, and I kept my hands in my pocket. Today I came as an envoy because I succeeded. I belong to this group of farmers who have managed to get out of this area of 1.5.5 ha. Today, as an MEP, I want to give advice without pay. And what do I see? The government of my country is serving, and I will no longer say what words can be chosen, solutions that are unacceptable, which are unacceptable to our profession. How can you treat the definition of a farmer like that, tie it to a KRUS, if it's a solution for small farms so that such a farmer can also work elsewhere, both here and here? [[Up to 20 ha.]] Ladies and gentlemen, how can you, under the coat of land purchase, serve solutions that do not have any place at all? It's not like anyone's waiting for Polish land. [[Mr President, we need to read the bill.]] How can you cause a young student who gets his father's land to start anything because he's insured in the ZUS? How can you cause a situation in which, sneaky, sneaky country, you call a law so that it's supposed to be about land use? [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Treasury, and she solves land cases all over the country, owns private property? What is this?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u343	Thank you very much, sir. That means you're out of time. [[Applause]] I'm afraid so.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u344	It means I came here for nothing... [[The Vice Marshal shuts down the microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u345	Thank you kindly. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Urszula Pasławska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u346	It means I made a mistake. Mr. Marshal, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u347	Thank you. And I'm asking you to leave the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u348	You tricked cooperative farmers. You banned us from buying land...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u349	Mr President, I would like to call you back to order. Please leave the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u350	I ask you to review this position... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u351	Mr President, please leave the speaker. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Urszula Pasławska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u352	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Indeed, the discussion is very emotional. It is a pity that it was not conducted in such a spirit as in August, when all parliamentary clubs were able to communicate in this important matter for Poland, which is the land, which is the Polish right state. I only hope that this bill, which you are proposing, will not be voted in the Sejm at night, because it would be very bad for Poland. Today, with all responsibility, one thing must be said: Law and Justice is fully responsible for the fact that for 4 months 2016. Poland's land is not protected. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] I have questions about that. First: How much at that time and to whom was the land of the Agricultural Property Agency sold? [[200,000. ha behind your governments on poles.]] [[♪ The bell ♪]] What else is the planned sale until the end of April? The second question that has already been raised today. In our August 2016 Act, there was a record that excluded former landowners and heirs from the right of the original purchase. What is your position on this matter? The third question concerns your concept of land in the so-called. The Earth State Fund. You've imposed a ban on sales of more than one ha. Maybe it's worth revisiting. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And increase it to 5 ha? And last question, market price. This is a question that is repeated repeatedly in meetings with farmers. Who and how will decide what the market price will be? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u353	Thank you very much, Member. And please take the floor of Mr Jakub Kulesza.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u354	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask a question on behalf of the farmers with whom I am meeting, with whom I am talking and who I am informing about how anti-agricultural legislation, how anti-agricultural regulations you want to introduce. These are not large-scale magnates, these are real Polish farmers from the grandfather of the great-grandfather, who worked hard to earn dozens of hectares. Why do you want to stop the development of Polish agriculture? Even as communes a Polish farmer could buy and grow agricultural land where he thought it was worth it, where he thought he wanted to do it. What you're proposing isn't even a deep commune, it's Bolshevik. Leszek Balcerowicz contributed to huge protests by bankrupt farmers. If Polish farmers learn how anti-agricultural regulations the state has adopted, it will not end in roadblocks. These farmers will come to the Polish Sejm and I will let them into this Sejm. And you, Minister, will have to explain yourself to these farmers personally. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u355	Thank you. I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that talking about Bolsheviks, about totalitarianism, which resulted in the death of many millions... Mr President, I am addressing you. I would like to point out to you that speaking from the speaker of the Polish Sejm to the Minister of the Polish Government and comparing this government to Bolsheviks is very inappropriate. [[I didn't compare. I've compared the regulations.]] It is highly inappropriate, Mr. President. And I draw your attention - for the first time in this House - to weigh words. This really is a very inappropriate remark. [[I've compared the regulations.]] Please take the floor of Mr Tomasz Jaskola.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u356	Dear Marshal, Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I was gonna say Communists... I'm so sorry, socialists, believers and non-believers. Mr. Marshal! Dear Izbo! I'd like to highlight one thing. You've adjusted the country inappropriately, and you've shut down 90% of the access, really. Polish citizens so that they could possibly own the land. I know there's a 1 ha parole because I just read this bill. [[Applause]] And that's the problem. Why can't I buy 30 hectares of land and grow it as a citizen? Who has the duty and the right to forbid me from my own choice? The earth is not just for onion cultivation, it is not for fetuses only. And if I wanted to have an example there. breeding Arabian horses and competing with a certain state enterprise so as not to mention whom? Ladies and gentlemen, if Steve Jobs were in the third wave, Toffler's concept is this - he was forced by such idiotic regulations in the United States, and he wasn't an engineer, he didn't finish his studies, you would never play with iPads in the halls, because regulations would stop him from producing tools because he wasn't an engineer. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, without asking a question, at the same absurdity - Mr. Marshal, I will not prolong - I believe that the entire bill is very socialist and anti-Polish minus the protection of the land from foreigners. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u357	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Gosievski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u358	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, Would it be advisable to supplement the definition of an individual farmer also with persons living in a neighbouring municipality? This is one of the few questions that I gave to the Minister as a result of the public consultation, because this is how we parliamentarians should do our job, we should talk to people. We, Members of the Law and Justice, are talking to people and all their comments and questions are transferred to the factor that the law creates in this case. This law takes care of Polish food security, cares for Polish farmer, about Polish state right. Saying this, misleading people, farmers can lead to farmers, in good faith, getting a quarter of the truths and half-truths you pass on to them... You know, in this consultation, I had to spend a few hours explaining to people that all you're telling them when you're misleading them are lies? [[But effectively, sir, effectively.]] And in the end, I'd like to [[♪ The bell ♪]] thank the Minister for the hard work he has put into the drafting of this law, so particularly useful to Polish farmers.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u359	Thank you, too, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u360	♪ 'Cause it's care ♪ about Polish farmers, not speculators. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u361	Mr Józef Lassot, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u362	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I've been thinking for a long time about why you're proposing a very restrictive project first, now a little less, because you realized it went too far. I think there's probably one goal you've been pursuing since the beginning, which is really everything under the authority of the state and take over everything as the property of the state. So contrary to what the Minister was upset about here, it's not nationalization, that's what it is. The Minister said in one of his numerous speeches that this was not an assassination on Polish soil. Yes, this is not an assassination on Polish soil, it is an assassination on the property of a Polish farmer. Perhaps the Minister understands it as a man's attachment to the ground that he can be bound by law, he can be bound by warrants. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I would like to ask the Minister for such an explanation, because you have just said, or rather not just now, that there are no restrictions on the marketing of private land, they are only in the case of a resource. And yet one of the records says that an individual farmer is considered to be the owner of a natural person, [[♪ The bell ♪]] a permanent user, self-owner or tenant, with agricultural qualifications and for at least 5 years resident in the municipality in which one of the properties belonging to the holding is situated, etc. Isn't that a restriction? [[Voice from the hall: Definition of the farmer.]] But it's the farmer who can buy the agricultural land, that's right. This is a restriction, Minister, so please don't mislead the public.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u363	Thank you, sir. Ms Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u364	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It's been exactly one hundred and a dozen days since you took over the government in our country, and I don't know if you're aware, but not one day, exactly not one day has been a day of peace in our country. And here today is another project that you have submitted to us, which is absolutely in line with this plan of total changes that you bring with you. And now here's the substantive question. There are various provisions that are questionable, but one provision that raises doubts about the constitutionality is that the Minister of Agriculture and the President of the Agency are allowed to circumvent the provision holding the sale of state land for 5 years without any judicial review. However, do you not think that the mention of important socio-economic causes is too vague, too laconic and unfortunately discretionary? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u365	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u366	Mr. Marshal! I have a question for the Minister. Does this 5-year suspension of the sale of the state land somehow coincide with this required 5-year period of residence in the municipality? There's a coincidence between these numbers, and don't you think it might make it easier for those who lease the land today and can't buy it, to buy the land after a five-year period, because they're gonna check into this community at that time? And the answer to the question that fell, why are we doing, raising such a plarum, is that it wasn't us. I will honestly admit that this project is suspended from the Ministry of Agriculture, I have learned from the farmers who came to my office. And since it is near the notarial law firm, they asked me what you are doing in this Seym and what projects you are preparing, because we want to write the children's land before 1 May. So it was the farmers who informed us, not us. Finally, it will be such a very important question, concerning the substantive purchase of land and this obligation to be registered in the CRUS, not in the CRU. There are many marriages that run farms in rural areas. Almost every farm is married, and what if one person is in ZUS and the other person is in KRUS? In my opinion, it eliminates such a marriage if the farm exceeds the area of 20 hectares, with the possibility of buying land. Did the Ministry actually analyze how many farmers are in Poland today who meet the criteria for buying land? Are those thousands, tens of thousands or hundreds of thousands? Because there's very little in my sense of these people. And that's what we're picking up, when it comes to this land, [[♪ The bell ♪]] That you don't want it to be for the expansion of family farms, because you just created a narrow throat that would make it impossible to buy land. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u367	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Ostrowski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u368	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have two such short questions for the Minister, kind questions, I would like to point out. Minister in the debate today, in the discussion he said this: we want to control the turnover of Polish land. I agree with this absolutely, of course, that it is necessary to control this turn, I have only such a question: Why only the Polish land which is in the resources of the Treasury, and not the Polish agricultural land in its entirety? Why does protection apply only to the land of the state? Second question. It's raining here, too, but I want to repeat it. The law does not protect against the sale of land by so-called. poles to foreigners, if the land became property of private poles - and we estimate that this is about 200,000. ha - means for years this land has not been a state land. In my opinion, despite the safeguards we offer, this land will be sold to foreigners within a month if not one day. Finally, the question is: Can we not include these issues in the bill? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u369	Thank you. Mr Dariusz Bąk, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u370	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The first basic question I am asking the Minister to answer: Where can nationalisation be found in the provisions of the Act? Because here many of the current opposition, and earlier rulers emphasize that we are dealing with some nationalization. I'm asking you to tell me because I don't see records like that. As long as those parties that have just appeared here are talking about some kind of nationalization, they can be forgiven because they don't understand. But the communists, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Communists and party, which is currently called PSL and previously ZSL, should know what nationalization is. [[Voice from the room: We fought her.]] After the war, nationalization was introduced. This was based on the fact that the rightful owners were removed by force, and ZSL was involved. [[Voice from the Chamber: Only, Mr...]] [[Game in the O.R.]] You can't pretend today that you don't know what nationalization is. You're deliberately misleading. You were the masters of nationalization, of bandit nationalization. And that's why today... [[Please, Marshal, pay attention to this...]] ...your role is very harmful, do not interfere with the thinking of Poles. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Today, such statements came from the mouth of your representatives: we, PSL, in defence of the Polish village. Poland's village showed you in the election on October 25th... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[We'll wait another six months.]] ...that I don't want to see you. [[♪ The bell ♪]] in governments, because nepotism and extreme irresponsibleness in your execution took place. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]] [[We'll wait, we'll wait.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u371	Thank you. Mr Kosiniak-Kamish in correction mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u372	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You have just offended thousands of people in Poland, children, grandchildren of Stanisław Mikołajczyk, Wincent Witos, Stanisław Merzwa, all those fighting for Poland, freedom, independence, those who were heirs and heirs of the shots, imprisoned in prisons in Moscow, Lubianka, all those who represent the Polish People's Party and after World War II fought for Polish land and for Polish democracy. This is unacceptable. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] It is unacceptable in the Polish parliament to insult all those who in the times of the Polish People's Republic tried to support, modernise and modernise the Polish village. This is also unacceptable to all those who cared about the development of Polish agriculture in the Third Republic. Mr President, you are missing the truth very much and insulting people - not the Polish People's Party, because you are not able to offend him. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u373	Thank you. Mr Bąk, as corrected.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u374	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The previous speaker, a representative of the Polish People's Party, did not understand my speech and raised the threads, which unfortunately cannot stay here without an answer. He mentioned one name, many names of noble activists of the Polish People's Party, but this true party, for which Poles wanted to give up and give their lives in the post-war period, because it was the only chance. Thanks to the coalition of PZPR and ZSL Stanisław Mikołajczyk had to flee abroad and died in 1966, unable to return to the country, and the ZSL had been well and ruling, did not allow him to do so. [[Voice from the hall: What the fuck are you talking about?]] Ladies and gentlemen, secretly killed activists of the Polish People's Party in the number of hundred dozens, tens of thousands of real PSLs under the rule of PZPR and ZSL were in prisons. Here today, those gentlemen who call themselves PSL activists... It's a PSL whose foundation is based on a lie. And that's why you have no right to fake history today. Poles won't fall for it. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] [[Voice from the room: What nonsense does he say?]] [[Voice from the room: Elections are over...]] [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: Mr Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u375	Thank you. Mr Michał Wojtkiewicz, Law and Justice have the floor. [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: Formal conclusion.]] One second after that speech. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u376	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Hot atmosphere, I see. I am very sorry to perform and I am asking your marshal to ask a question, but I am assigned to ask, on behalf of many, many farmers, whether it is true that their children will not be able to inherit the land, because there is such a campaign that suddenly the Law and Justice will want to take the land and pass it on to the agricultural agencies. Second thing. The question of the earth's flow is very important. If, to some extent, the agricultural agency decides mainly whether the land will be sold and sold to whom and, on the other hand, that the land can only be sold to the farmer, I want to ask, Minister. Because something like this has been worked out, that all of a sudden they've been taking courses, and everyone could buy land. But pay attention, Minister, if this happens, the value of the land will suddenly fall. This has a huge impact on the entire economy of the Polish state, because various types of loans depend on the value of the land. In the old days, a farmer who, let's assume, [[♪ The bell ♪]] He had two or three hectares of land, he could have bought himself a tractor on loan. Today, if this value drops ten times, he won't be able to buy this land anymore. And besides, all the perturbation in the banks, and so on. She's not gonna have any positive effects, so I think, Minister, you should give the public an explanation here. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u377	Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish with a formal application. [[Don't clap on me.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u378	Because it's dangerous, like PSL claps a representative of the PiS. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! With a formal request on behalf of the club for a recess, for a recess, and during a recess, I ask Mr Marshal to convene the Seniors' Convention, so that you can explain the history of the folk movement, who is the heir of the Polish People's Party, the pre-war folk movement, PSL Mikołajczykowski, which political formation refers to who the grandchildren belonged, such as the dead. Wincenty Stawarz, to the Polish People's Party, where there are descendants of those who created the people's movement, who cares about Vincent Witos, and not only in the pre-election campaign makes a wreath, once a year, just as you do. When it comes to voting on Wincent Witos' rehabilitation bill, when it comes to the disgraceful judgment of the Brest court, and others, we'll see how you behave, whether you want to rehabilitate. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] This is a test of truth. This is a test of the truth, who is on the side of the folk movement, who is the heir. And don't wipe your... [[Voice from the hall: Mouths.]] [[Voice from the Chamber:]] ...don't wipe it and don't push the name of the Polish People's Party. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u379	Thank you. [[Mr. Marshal, what's the formal conclusion?]] [[Voice from the room: About a break.]] This is the marshal's authority, we'll hand it over to the marshal. [[Let's hear it.]] In what mode, sir? [[In corrigendum mode.]] Good. Mr Bąk, as corrected.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u380	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! We are dealing with total amnesia of activists who are currently hiding under the name of the Polish People's Party. And that's why I think, marshal, that... Because it is unacceptable that we simply listen to the nonsense of the representatives of this organization. Their foundation is a lie. This lie is being disseminated today in cases concerning the protection of the greatest good, which is the Polish land. [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: You are lying!]] [[They privatized the woods.]] [[Voices from the hall: Forests!]] And that's why we can't allow such calumnies that are thrown here today. The public is being misled. The Polish land is subject to the highest form of protection in this law and is not blocked, as we have heard, sales between individual farmers. This is properly secured, which was expected by society, because during the term of PO and PSL for 8 years... [[Privatize the woods!]] [[Voices from the hall: Forests!]] ...there were protests, there were strikes. And that's why today needs to be... You have left such a ballast that it is necessary to promote the protection of Polish land. It's what society demands. You have committed shameful omissions against the protection of Polish land. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]] [[Don't wave your finger.]] [[Voices from the hall: Forests!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u381	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Mr Zbigniew Babalski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u382	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to say that very responsible and with great care, not alone, but also with colleagues, I have tried to listen to all the comments and questions that have been raised in this Chamber. And for that I just want to thank you, for the discussion, for the representatives of individual clubs, as well as for the questions that have been raised in this Chamber. To the epithets, of course, I will not answer, this atmosphere and so it is, and so it was too high. Don't push yourselves where and who. Here, before this discussion against my person, there were also unacceptable words, which fell from this pulpit. Mr. Marshal paid attention to it, too. [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: Not from our side.]] But to the point. I want to be taken seriously and I want to take you seriously. Therefore, do not be outraged, because I could bloom this short word so that you would simply be outraged. Each of you will receive an answer to the question - to the question asked, not to the comment - in writing. There are too many threads raised here so that you can approach this and try to answer these questions individually, which would probably result in further discussion, because we simply do not agree on many things at all. We're different for today. [[Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: True.]] I hope it's for today. Let me just say briefly, within which threads this discussion was most often discussed here. The rotation of the earth - today I answer - is not blocked. What should be the price? Real. The price should be real, on the possibilities of the Polish farmer. Inheritance, donation agreement, life sentence, or sale to loved ones, because this form is also there. There is no interference by the Agricultural Property Agency and there is no State interference. ANR. Read with attention, a lot of attention: powers are not an obligation. Today, 80% of the land is traded between farmers, and this is how it happens. There would be no discussion today if there were no protests and strikes, no farmers in the West Pomeranian Voivodeship as well. That wouldn't be here today. [[Then what's the problem?]] This discussion would probably not have been the case if it hadn't been for a protest against the Prime Minister's office for many, many months. [[Applause]] You should have answered that. I'm not hiding that you tried to answer that. I'm just complaining and regretting, and I'm turning to PSL that you guys started doing it too late. You started doing this when the situation was actually getting hotter and hotter. And I only regret it and resent it because I worked on the agricultural committee for eight years, and I know from practice and experience how this work was done. I won't mention... [[I worked there for 11 years.]] I'm talking about myself, about my experience. Not to mention the lease bill; I've been in the subcommittee for three years, we haven't done anything about it. But okay, come on. Let's try to close those compartments that are really dividing us up here today. Because they're sharing. And maybe this language should be more substantive, not as aggressive as the one who's here. He often shows up. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I'm talking about a matter of substance, a law, not other threads. That's why thanking everyone for the discussion that took place here... Oh, one more thing, because I was talking about a couple, last one, that KRUS. After all, you know very well - especially when it comes to the party which says that it is responsible for the Polish village - that today in the Polish village 80% Farmers are farmers with up to 20 hectares. After all, I at the end, as I presented this bill, said that there are compartments here and there is a ground for discussion. You do not have a person before you, a representative of the government who comes and says: This bill is the best and there is no change. You said yourself, "Oh, because you've changed it a little bit. Why was there a public consultation? That's part of it. These public consultations were, among other things, so that these proposals, which were extremely right, would give this sumptuousness to the fact that it needed to be changed a little bit. These were also the conclusions of agricultural organizations. [[Micro.]] There's still room for discussion today, probably a little smaller. Probably a little smaller, because we are already within the Sejm, we have a agriculture committee left and there we will carry out this decisive, I think, discussion, and not an argument, to develop a project that will simply find recognition of Polish farmers. And finally, I'm gonna ask you a question, maybe rhetorical, because it's also been here in almost every second, every third speech. What is it really about the Polish countryside and Polish agriculture, and Polish farmers? For selling this land? [[It's the location of the hand.]] For selling this land? About turning this land around? Is it about the Polish farmer having this land? And here it was, you can't, you can't sell, you can't trade. Well, for God's sake, the situation is that the earth should be there to give birth. The farmer's supposed to grow her, and she's having a baby. [[Applause]] So I guess that's where we should be going, not worrying that we're interfering here so that we don't trade this land. Yes, we do not want the land to be a subject of constant trade, but we do not close - as it has been many times - the possibility of trading this land. He will be. We will be careful, patiently explaining this at the committee meeting, and I hope that the common denominator - perhaps not entirely, but on many of the issues that have been addressed here - will be found. Mr Marshal, thank you very much for your patience, and I thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for keeping up with this debate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u383	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u384	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 1. Is it true that after the law has entered into force, the solutions contained in it will result in us treating Polish farmers as foreigners, imposing on them the same restrictions on the acquisition of land? 2. Is it true that the Polish farmer will often not be able to buy land from his neighbour, he will not be able to buy it in the neighboring municipality, enlarge his farm, for 5 years he will not have access to the state land? 3. Will it be possible to settle in the Polish countryside for those who would like to move out of the city to the country in the present bill? 4. Can farmers lose out as a result of the law because it can make the land cheaper? Please respond in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u385	A motion to reject the draft law at first reading was put forward in the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. A group of Members submitted a draft law amending the Act amending the Code of Civil Procedure Act and certain other laws, the Act amending the Civil Code Act, the Code of Civil Procedure Act and some other laws, the Act on Tax Administration and some other laws. The project is print number 312. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to complete the agenda by a point covering the first reading of the project. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: Report from the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the National Family Violence Action Programme for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2014 (Print No 178) together with the position of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy (Print No 268). I ask the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Mrs Elżbieta Bojanowska, to present a report.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u386	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, 2014 Report on the implementation of the National Family Violence Action Programme 2014 This report refers both to activities carried out at central and local level as well as to non-governmental organisations. In 2014, actions were carried out in four areas: prevention and social education, protection and assistance to those affected by family violence, impact on those who use domestic violence, and enhancement of the competences of services and representatives of those involved in the fight against domestic violence. Now I'm going to go over these four areas briefly. I'm moving to area one. Since the problem of family violence is multidimensional, this programme carries out tasks aimed at preventive actions for people and families at risk of violence, measures aimed at protecting people who are violent and those who are violent in the family, but also measures to improve the competences of services and representatives of actors engaged in anti-violence activities. One of the results of the actions undertaken was the cooperation of the various departments involved in the implementation of this programme, but also of representatives and services working in local environments. Preventive programmes, which were among others, have played an important role in their success in the implementation of preventive measures. aimed at children and young people, whose task was and is to create the right lifestyle and appropriate attitudes and behaviour. Within the framework of this programme, among others. The Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy carried out the programme of support for local self-government units in the creation of a system to prevent violence in the family.The Ministry of Education, the programme "Safe and friendly school', the Ministry of Internal Affairs - together safer, and the Ministry of Justice issued informants, brochures, led the contact database of those who coordinated the tasks, as well as those who ran aid centres for victims. On the other hand, the Ministry of Health, through the Polish Agency for the Solution of Alcohol Problems, carried out information activities, training for services and conducted a nationwide hotline for people experiencing violence in the family, the Blue Line. A major element of this area is also the change of public awareness. This change in public awareness takes place through campaigns. These social campaigns, which were aimed at, among others, the decline in violent behaviour, as well as the change in perception of the problems of violence not only as an individual case but as a broader phenomenon to be addressed. Regarding prevention, consideration should also be given to cooperation between local authorities and the Churches in order to introduce elements of education on the phenomenon of violence in the field of church counseling, religious unions or pre-marriage programmes. More than a thousand initiatives have also been undertaken in this cooperation. They were conducted both at the level of municipalities and powiats. When discussing these activities, it is also worth mentioning the obligation imposed on local authorities to develop and implement a municipal, district and voivodeship programme against family violence and to protect victims of domestic violence. More than 2 000 in 2014 The municipalities, almost 300 powiats and all local governments of the voivodships have developed such programs. In describing the area of prevention, it is also important to mention the studies carried out on the Diagnosis and comparison of the scale of family violence and the effectiveness of measures taken to combat family violence. These studies show that, in particular, I wanted to point out that the main cause of violence is the problem with alcohol. In the second place there is a lack of money, then there are marital problems, but what came out especially in these studies, is that often nothing affected family violence. Yes more than 17% respondents replied. Details of the report will be found on the website of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. The second area of action under the national programme is the protection and assistance of those affected by family violence. Throughout the country, according to this law, the people affected by violence in 2014 were 197 989. The aid was provided in the form of counselling 156 082 persons, including medical counseling 6328 persons, psychological - 63 953 persons, legal - 41 500 persons, social - 86 186 persons, professional and family - 25 267 persons. It should be noted that in 2014 it operated in municipalities of more than 2 000. interdisciplinary teams and 70,000. working groups dealing with individual cases. There were 905 units throughout Poland, including 690 institutions run by municipalities and 215 institutions run by powiats. Among the institutions, the vast majority were consultative points and crisis intervention centres, as well as specialised support centres for victims of domestic violence. The smallest number of institutions in Poland are support centres and homes for mothers with minors and pregnant women. When discussing aid institutions, it is worth pointing out the existence of 35 specialised support centres in the country for victims of domestic violence. The operation of these centres is a task entrusted to the county authorities and the funds are transferred from the State budget. The cost of maintaining specialised support centres for victims of violence in 2014 was over 12 million. In these specialised centres, people who experience violence receive free 24/7 assistance. More than 7717 advice was provided in these centres in 2014, including 5344 women, 1112 men and 1261 children. They included older people, 375 people, and 406 people with disabilities. Another form of support directed to people experiencing violence was nationwide and local round-the-clock phones of trust. In 2014, there were three nationwide calls of trust, while the number of local phones of trust was 467 throughout the country, 116 of which were 24 hours a day and 351 functioned at certain times. Another area is the area of impact on violent people. The application of the Blue Card procedure should be taken into account within this area. In 2014, more than 99 000 were launched. blue card procedures. Most of the procedures were initiated by the police, because more than 77 thousand, then by representatives of social services. There has also been a significant increase in the initiation of the procedure by educational representatives - more than 6 thousand, while the least started procedures were still the blue cards by the representatives of the municipal committees to solve alcohol problems, because 694, and health representatives. Like I said, more than 99,000 were founded. The Blue Cards in 2014 and the number of cases completed as a result of lack of legitimacy is 14 851 and the number of cases completed as a result of family violence is 41 522. Priority action aimed at those who use violence in the family is the implementation of programmes for correction and education in the conditions of freedom and penal units. In 2014, the corrective and educational impact of violence was over 6 000. Whereas the actual number of people who joined the programmes is more than 8 000. Another action aimed at those who use violence in the family is the implementation of psychological and therapeutic programmes for those who use violence. This is a new task in the national programme. It is also extremely important to provide protection and security for those affected by violence. This purpose is served by means of the measures provided for in the criminal procedure and in material criminal law to isolate the perpetrators of violence in cases where this is necessary to protect the life or health of victims. One example of effective forms of isolation is a precautionary measure by ordering the accused to commit a crime of violence against a person who lives together to leave the premises occupied together with the victim, where there is a legitimate concern that the accused will again commit a crime of violence against that person, especially when he threatened to commit such a crime. This measure shall apply for a period of not more than 3 months. If the grounds for its application have not ceased, the court of first instance having jurisdiction to hear the case at the request of the prosecutor may extend its application for further periods of no longer than 3 months. In 2014, the number of suspects against whom the above mentioned list was applied. the preventive measure in the form of an order to leave the dwelling occupied together with the victim was more than 2,300 persons, for example. In 2011, there were 849 such cases. The last area of action under the national programme is to increase the competences of services and representatives of actors carrying out anti-violence tasks in the family. In 2014, guidelines were developed for training against family violence for 2014 and 2015. The Marshals of the voivodships organized trainings for people carrying out tasks related to the prevention of violence in the family. In 2014, 114 such trainings took place. In total, more than 3,000 were trained. employees of first contact. The Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy organised a conference in this area. The National Family Violence Prevention Programme 2014 and 2020 - the present and the future. Finally, it should be pointed out that the actions I am discussing are only a summary and closing part of 2014. At the same time, it should be pointed out that the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy sees the need for legislative amendments to the anti-violence law, and this work is currently ongoing in the Ministry. There is a need to re-bureaucratise and simplify the procedure of Blue Cards, but also to eliminate stigmatisation by this card. Following the drafting of the bill, it will be submitted to a wide range of consultations. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u387	Thank you, Minister. I would like to ask Mrs Bożena Borys-Raccoon to present the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u388	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the report on the implementation of the National Family Violence Action Programme for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2014, print No 178. This report on 13 January 2016 was addressed by the Marshal of the Sejm to be examined by the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs. At its meeting on 24 February, the committee took note of this document and additional explanations by the Minister responsible. The report on the implementation of the National Programme against Violence in the Family for 2014 presented to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs was prepared on the basis of reports by voivodships, voivodships marshals and reports by the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Ministry of Justice, Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, Ministry of Health, Ministry of National Education, Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, Police Headquarters and National Radio and Television Council, which are co-authors of the programme. The document developed shall include a description of the programme-compliant activities and their evaluation based on the recommendations and conclusions drawn up. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy recognised that the actions already carried out under the National Anti-Family Violence Programme should be appreciated, while at the same time seeking to introduce as soon as possible changes aimed at providing more effective and quicker assistance to violent people, as well as taking action towards violent people. It is important that the law and procedures do not stigmatize families and do not create a misconception that all Polish families are burdened with violence. The family is one of the most important social groups and should therefore be protected and effectively helped in crisis situations. The meeting discussed in detail the areas, directions and activities of the anti-violence programme in the family and the way it was financed during the reporting period, i.e. 1 January to 31 December 2014 The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy has adopted this report without opposition and recommends that the High Sejm adopt this report on the implementation of the National Family Violence Action Programme for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2014, prints No 178 and 268. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u389	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Anna Schmidt-Rodziewicz, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u390	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Law and Justice Club on the report submitted by the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the National Anti-Mounting Programme in the Family for the 2014-2020 period. The report covers 2014 and was prepared by the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy in cooperation with other ministries and local government units and NGOs. The document was entered in the Sejm on 15 October 2015, in print No 178. On 13 January, he was assigned to work in the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs. The report on the implementation of the programme was adopted on 24 February by the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, which recommended that the High House adopt the report on printing No 268. The programme has a long-term perspective. It sets out areas, directions and types of action aimed at promoting prevention and carrying out tasks towards those who are both perpetrators and victims of domestic violence at all levels of public administration, in cooperation with actors representing local environments. The National Programme against Violence in the Family has been implemented in four areas: prevention and social education, protection and assistance to those affected by family violence, impact on those who are violent in the family, as well as in the last area: improving the competences of services and representatives of those involved in anti-violence activities in the family. In the first area: prevention and social education have been researched on the level of violence among Poles. The report presents the results of studies on the sources and percentage of the phenomenon by type of violence used. In this area, nationwide and local social campaigns were conducted. Cooperation was also undertaken between local authorities and churches and religious unions located in the area. These activities covered more than 1 000. initiatives in more than 1 000 municipalities and 50 powiats. Coverage and educational programmes have also been developed for family violence prevention activities, particularly in relation to children, women and the elderly or with disabilities. The Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy is implementing a cover programme to support local self-government units in the creation of a system against domestic violence. About PLN 3 million was allocated to this programme in 2014. The programme against violence and the protection of its victims has been developed and implemented at all levels of the local government in more than 2 000. Municipalities, nearly 300 powiats and regional governments. The second area concerns actions aimed at protecting and helping those affected by violence. In this area, interdisciplinary teams and working groups have been operational. In 2014, the municipalities operated more than 2.5 thousand. Teams and 70,000. working groups dealing with individual cases. The next action within this area is the creation of support facilities for people affected by violence - in Poland there are about 1 000. such facilities - and increase the availability of national and local phones of trust. In 2014, a total of over 60 thousand were held. talks, which resulted in 16 thousand talks. intervention. In more than 1350 cases, this intervention concerned the isolation of children from the environment in which they experience violence. The third area concerns the impact on violent people. Under the Blue Card procedure, in 2014 proceedings were initiated in nearly 100,000. cases, including most cases, have been initiated by the police and social assistance units. In addition, corrective and educational programmes were developed and implemented for violent people, with over 6 000 participating in 2014. people - and psychological and therapeutic programs. Since 2017, this task will be financed from the State budget in accordance with the programme schedule. In 2014, more than 1.6 thousand joined the programme at local government level. persons. The fourth area, the last one, is to improve the competences of the services and representatives of the actors involved in anti-violence activities. The programme has developed and organised a training system for those carrying out anti-violence tasks in the family. In 2014, more than 3,000 were trained in total. persons. A total of 16 400 000 are planned for the 2014 budget to carry out family-based anti-violence tasks. PLN, of which in the voivodship budgets more than PLN 14 million and in the special reserve more than 1800 thousand. In the final plan, at 31 December, this amount in the budget for the implementation of the programme after the change amounted to almost 16 700 000. zł. These funds were used in more than 98%. The activities of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy in the implementation of the programme are supported by the Monitoring Team. Against Violence in the Family. The team shall participate in the development of guidelines for the organisation of trainings and shall evaluate the proposals of local authorities under the cover programme financed by the Minister. In addition, it initiates legislative action in the area of anti-violence in the family and gives an opinion on the areas of research and nationwide social campaigns to which the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy is obliged to implement. The National Action Programme against Violence in the Family, which complements the Anti-violence Act in an operational manner, is part of the implementation of state policy in this area. Despite the large number of recommendations resulting from the analysis of the report which is necessary to improve and improve the implementation of the programme, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will support the adoption of the report on the implementation of the government programme by the High House. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u391	Thank you. Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u392	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present its position on the implementation of the National Family Violence Action Programme for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2014. We know that family violence is one of the worst social pathologies. We also know that the history of violence actually goes back centuries. In Poland, domestic violence has been said out loud for several years, perhaps only 20 years. Once upon a time, we didn't even have the opportunity to speak openly about domestic violence. Victims of domestic violence could not even dream of using such forms of help as they are today. Over the last few years, I think, we have made tremendous progress in this area. However, this does not mean that all possibilities and aid have already been exhausted, on the contrary, there is still much to be done. Usually, victims don't report to the police for any reason. Very often these are individual reasons, because the perpetrator is e.g. The only breadwinner in the family, he's the one. the owner of the apartment. It also often continues to repent of the shame that violence in the family is, however, a form of social pathology that cannot be said about. Therefore, it is very important to help victims of violence not only those instruments addressed directly to them, so this psychological assistance or legal assistance, but also social campaigns. I think that this report shows in such a detailed way what forms of assistance are today and which ones are, so to speak, the most effective. But I would also like to remind you, I think, of two very important pieces of legislation that have been put into effect over the past few years. First of all, I would like to talk about the law, about the first law of 2005, i.e. the law on anti-violence in the family. Surely this was a breakthrough, a breakthrough in showing that violence in the family is a bad thing to stigmatize and that it is absolutely necessary to help the victims. I think that the second very important legal act is the amendment of this law of 2010, which introduced the need to develop this National Anti-Mounting Programme in the Family. And today, as the Minister said, this programme contains a description of the activities carried out in four main areas, namely prevention and social education, protection and assistance to those affected by family violence, impact on those who are violent in the family and improving the competences of the services and representatives of those involved in anti-violence activities in the family. I would like to draw attention to the studies that were commissioned and carried out by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy in 2014. In 2014, fewer respondents declared that they had experienced domestic violence than in 2010. Fewer perpetrators were admitted to domestic violence than in 2010. There were also fewer witnesses of domestic violence. According to the victims' statements, violence was most commonly used against women. - over 67%. According to reports from victims and witnesses, the most common victims of violence in the family were men - over 76%. In 2014 26% The respondents declared that they knew families in their environment where there was violence against the elderly or the disabled. Nearly 20% of all respondents declared childhood experience of at least one form of violence. Statistical data from the implementation of this programme for 2014 show that a total of 1288 local diagnoses have been developed in Poland. These are very important diagnoses, because they concern both municipal, district and voivodship levels. About... I would also like to refer to this change of social awareness, because, as I remember from my own work in the late 1990s, violence was a rather hidden phenomenon, and today we see the huge impact of all the social campaigns that were of great importance, on the change of social consciousness. And so, for example, in the analysis of statistics, over 99 000 used the Blue Card procedure in 2014. Victims. Compared to 2013, this is a huge difference because in 2013 the blue cards were filled with 70,000. Next, I would like to emphasise the importance of interdisciplinary teams, which build an interdisciplinary system in which employees of various services and institutions are involved. Research has shown that over these seven years, violence has fallen by 10%. I also think that it is important to stress the fact that there has been a decrease in the use, so to speak, of people who have suffered violence in the family from institutions. I think that the reduction in the number of people using these facilities has also had a significant impact on the code changes introduced in 2010 by amending the law on anti-violence in the family, which makes it possible to issue an order to leave the premises by the perpetrator of violence in the family and to prohibit contact with the person experiencing violence. This is the first time we introduced this in the amendment of the law in 2010. This means that this measure is used and that the perpetrator leaves the house, not the victim, often a woman with her children. Yes, we see that this measure is not yet fully used, but we are aware that it is a process that requires training and time. We see great progress in this matter. The important thing is that such a provision is that such a provision works, because this is what we, legislators, people who work on it, who help in various institutions, e.g. In social assistance centers, it is the perpetrator who leaves the place of residence, not the victim, often a woman with children. We have also introduced, and this is what the report is talking about, programmes of correctional and educational influences for those who use violence in the family. Over the years, these programmes have increased their potential and, thanks to their implementation, more than 8 000 have been affected in 2014. people who are violent in the family. It's a lot, for example. In 2007, the number of people benefiting from such a scheme was just 900. I think that the most important thing is - even on the basis of these studies that I quoted from 2014 - that there is a reduction in the scale of the phenomenon of violence in the family. The first studies, in 2007, showed that 36% Poles experienced any violence. The 2010 study's result is a decrease of 33%. 2014 shows that more than 24% respondents experienced violence. So this is a very important decrease in the number of people affected by domestic violence. Most often this violence is psychological violence, including physical violence, further sexual violence and economic violence. This report clearly shows that the forms of aid proposed in the existing anti-violence law are well implemented because, on the one hand, the scale of the phenomenon of violence is decreasing, and on the other hand, we see that many instruments are increasingly being used more and more. Courts. So I think that on the one hand the phenomenon is smaller, and on the other hand the effectiveness is the most important here. I think there's a lot left. This programme has to be assessed well or even very well in 2014, and this does not mean that no further monitoring is needed. On the contrary - monitor, improve so that victims have the best help from different institutions, but also to surround the perpetrators with some corrective programs, as it has been used so far to actually solve these problems, because children are often directly and indirectly victims. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u393	Thank you very much. Ms Agnieszka Chasing, Kukiz,15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u394	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Parliamentary Club15 on the implementation of the 2014-2020 National Anti-Mounting Programme for the Family in 2014. The report itself is a very extensive study that actually exposes a big elephant on clay legs. Elephant is a system of support by the state of families experiencing a crisis, an inefficient, inefficient, bureaucratic system of social assistance, which in this case was built up by various other institutions and offices, which are supposed to help the Polish family - in a crisis unfortunately. Family violence itself, of course, is a huge crisis, and that's what we have to call it, it often poses a threat to life, to health, and it's the result of complex causes, and there's no doubt about it. It is good that we are solving this problem, that we are monitoring this phenomenon, that we are trying to help such victims or the perpetrators themselves. I told you about the elephant and his clay legs, because in this report, you can see that he's about to fall. For years in Poland, such a messy web has been constructed, which is supposed to help the Polish family in the crisis. The effect is that 70% families who benefit from social assistance, never get out of this web, even by reference to the inheritance of learned helplessness, yet generations of these families unfortunately enter this system, even without their own will. Imagine a family that has problems with violence, these problems are often complex, with unemployment, with educational failure, with disabilities or addictions, which were very often seen here in the report, are linked to violence. Let's imagine, ladies and gentlemen, that such a family is a customer of at least 11 - at least, and sometimes that over - institutions: social assistance, court, family assistant, PFRON, employment office, curator, therapists, police, counsellors, etc., that's a whole lot of it, often NGOs. In each of these institutions, as the family goes there, there is a separate diagnosis, there is a separate action, several specialists, I will say colloquially, dig in my own way and according to my procedures in this family. Of course, there are huge resources behind this, there are a lot of procedures, there is a whole staff of officials. The effect is most often this, it can also be seen in this report, that each of these specialists, to whom the family goes, says that he can't do anything here, because a plot is in another specialist, and according to the law he did his job, and now you have to direct the family to another institution. And that's how it goes, this family goes around these institutions very often for a few years, even getting used to this system, living in a certain symbiosis. Just what? You just can't see any effects, and she's still stuck with her problems. In this report, just like domestic violence, that's exactly what you see. First, the state created various institutions, obliged them to help such a family, a family with violence, gave each of them a separate procedure, separate tools - Police, social assistance, guardians to the court, assistants, alcoholic committees, which also participate in this - then saw, realized that all these institutions were not effective, because they simply did not cooperate with each other, and decided to lead them to cooperate with each other. The report shows that it is followed by staff, training, various instruments to force cooperation. Of course, it's a good thing that you realized and started to control it, but we have such an effect that very often in this family with violence many people are interfering with it, very many specialists. And all those people who have had to deal with it - and I am a person who has worked with victims of violence for many years - can say boldly that all those people who are trying to interfere there can actually do harm. Everyone who has to deal with violence knows that experimenting with their family is very easy to do about the effect of re-injuring the family for years to withdraw from the fact that it has even reached for help. I know that we are talking about the report now, but I would like to encourage you, I would like to encourage you to change your thinking about helping the Polish family in the crisis, thinking about looking at the family as a whole. Let us finally look at it by working with it and that it is a closed system. Let us help her to see her own weaknesses, but also to see her strengths and resources. When I say "help," I mean, of course, outside help, animator help. It may be an assistant, but he's an animator. The animator is not the person who tells the family what to do to get out of the crisis, and gives her his prescriptions according to his procedures, but the animator is the person who skillfully directs this family so that she finds her power, her resources and tries to get out of the situation in which she is in. Then the family can diagnose its situation, and violence is also a situation that it will be able to diagnose. Of course, this animator is the person closest to him, the only person who will be able to contact other services, along with this family, plan the form of help, plan what tools are needed for this family to get out of this situation, and, of course, will also plan the money that this family will use for it. This system of work is called a system of working with the family. This is not a novelty, such a system is successfully applied in other countries of the European Union. For many years, in recent years, it has been well, with the pilot effect used in innovative projects from the European Union, also in Poland. The advantages of this model are above all that we involve the family in a plan for helping her, which at the same time creates the conditions for her to feel responsible for changing her situation and realizes it in the way we work with her, it is also precisely targeted assistance according to the needs of this family, and not according to what exactly the state has for this family, the re-bureaucratisation of social assistance, and at the same time focusing on actual work with the family. Family crisis needs to be helped, there is no doubt here, but the current system only consolidates this crisis and costs huge money. The government's appeal to undertake even in this respect a thorough reform of this clay elephant and proposed such a system, tried to lean on a system that will be effective, because the Polish family can be helped effectively, and especially this family in crisis. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u395	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Skutecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u396	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The report is very rich, very extensive and very interesting, while it concerns family violence. I would like to focus in my speech, by nature short, on violence against the family, on violence committed against the family by the Polish state in the form of all institutions. I'd just like to introduce two very fresh things. You may be familiar with the situation of Michał from Lublin, a boy who is likely to be adopted to Belgium. I will quote Michael's nanny: I was informed about this fact and within two days I was to prepare Michael for a meeting with the Belgians and foreign adoption. To our amazement, no one considered our opinion as legal guardians of the child, that 7-year-old Michael for such adoption we believe is not ready, all the more so since recently there has been contact with the biological family. True, parents are deprived of their rights, but Michael still has an adult sister, aunt, uncles. Besides, parents, though deprived of their rights, are interested in the boy. It is natural in law and in practice to maintain such bonds between children and family. On our arguments against foreign adoption, and so fast, we have heard that we are to put out the child's ties with the biological family. It was the guardians who heard from the court that the child's ties with the biological family were eliminated. [[Voice from the hall: It's a nightmare.]] This is a nightmare, you're right, Minister. That's the other thing. Sebastian Nadolski was released a few days ago. Do you remember the high-profile case of a child alert? Since the beginning, many communities have said that this is an absolutely absurd situation, that a father who is not deprived of parental rights, without limited parental rights, cannot kidnap his own child. This is completely absurd, and the court admitted it a few days ago. The court wrote in the judgment in this way: It is difficult for the district court to conclude that a serious penalty for an act qualified by the prosecutor is in fact imminent. 189 § 2 The Penal Code, provided it is proved to him, since, according to the description of the act, the suspect was to be allowed to deal with a minor son aged less than 4 years, especially since during the period indicated as the time of the act he was not deprived of parental authority by a final judgment. Ladies and gentlemen! I am really paying attention to this because, as long as violence in the family is diagnosed, it is monitored and the state is trying to prevent this violence, the families against which violence is applied have no one to turn to. I would ask you to pay attention to this aspect as well. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u397	Thank you very much. Ms Joanna Augustynowska, Moderna, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u398	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! High Izbo! There is no point in repeating the obvious truths that we all agree on here. The report, very extensive, very thorough, shows that the program is working. So I wanted to raise issues of a technical, budgetary nature, so that these noble assumptions concerning this programme, which we have in mind, could be put into effect effectively. The shortest way to fail in this field is not to provide adequate funding. Please inform us whether we have cause for concern in this regard, because it is worth asking a question here in the context of budgetary transfers to which several voivodships were forced according to this report, as well as in the context of the 500+ programme. The contrast in the approach of the Polish state to both of these programs is striking, and so huge differences in the resources allocated to them difficult to explain. In the National Programme against Violence in the Family, we have a modern, multifaceted approach to the problem and the cooperation of professionals from various fields. Their laborious, heavy and for incomprehensible reasons not properly paid for the work on the one hand and on the other hand mechanical distribution of 500 PLN. I'm afraid that this 500+ colossus can pour out a baby with a bath, it can have a bad impact by systematically draining the budget for programmes better prepared, on programmes that produce results, because these effects are, although far from being a very satisfactory situation. I do not believe in shortcuts and I do not want to use this place to hit the 500+ programme as a rule, but both as a Member and as a mother, I cannot get away with the following doubts. Do you not think that there is a risk that one programme will contribute to destroying the effects of the other? After all, the password 500 PLN per child is a slogan. He's not gonna take that money away from the baby, but the parent is gonna take it away. In many cases, obviously because of the scale, a parent from a family affected by alcohol problems. Hard data shows that alcoholism is the main cause of domestic violence. Meanwhile, Minister Elżbieta Rafalska considered this nature to be a display of shoes. With all due respect to the Minister and the fight she fought in defence of the bill, I find such a remark inconstructive and hurtful. This is a real problem that we don't have an answer to right now. In this context, Prime Minister Szydło's statements on the response of the programme's implementing body to such a few cases are inconclusive. How will she react? According to what procedure? On what grounds? Suspicious? Whose? There's still no answer here. How do we know it's gonna be a few cases? I hope that the words that the Prime Minister used in the same speech are apprehensive because we cannot hope for the safety of the family. From a budgetary point of view, but also from a moral point of view, such cases, and certainly they will come to them, are appalling. I also wanted to join Mrs Kochan's request, which she mentioned during the committee's work on this report, to examine how many children and how long she has been returning to family homes, those children who are isolated in situations of violence in the family. As for the disturbing increase in the number of children taken away from their families, the explanation of your DCI is helpful, but incomplete. For clarity, we should use either percentages or numbers in both cases. The police made 19% of it. less of this kind of action. Which is how much less? What are the numbers? Unfortunately, this report does not show that. I am also concerned about the fact that out of 12 children, half of them were taken away from their parents without so drastic a cause. Although the number of cases is small, the percentage of complaints taken into account is worrying. It is banal, but it is true to say that the Polish state has done irreparable damage to its own citizens - both children and parents - to the psychic wounds that will heal for years. We must make every effort to minimize the number of such cases. And a brief comment on the statement of the A.D.A. Augustyniak. As far as I understand in human terms that it is difficult for the Polish justice system to function in this absurd mess of regulations, which it is flooded with every year by the Sejm, it is outrageous, although I do not deny that it is true that a representative of the Ministry of Justice says that prosecutors and judges must simply learn these instruments. Just a question: When do you teach? People who perform the most prestigious legal professions are to learn them for years at the expense of the safety of the most vulnerable citizens? I kindly ask that you influence the Minister of Justice and the Attorney General in one person to place particular emphasis on the training of staff in this area. This is undoubtedly more important than deciding what press titles the President of the court can order, probably able to make his own choice. And since we are with educated staff, I would like to conclude once again by stressing that a worthy compensation is the absolute minimum that the state should pay back to members of the interdisciplinary committees. We can't afford to lose professionals. This solution is supported both by reason of fairness and by reason of common sense. Of course, we will support the report in its entirety because it is complementary. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u399	Thank you. Mrs Elizabeth Stępień, Moderna, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u400	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm really comfortable today because I'm making a statement on a modern case over political divisions. One of the elements to illustrate its scale is presented annually by the Council of Ministers by the National Anti-Mounting Programme in the Family. In fact, this 2014 report is not easy to refer to the previous years for one simple reason and, in principle, for two reasons. Firstly, we cannot refer to the previous years as the 2014 form has been modified and expanded and, secondly, only presents the situation of cases reported and monitored by the institutions. Therefore, reference to statistics at this point is not valid. Only the 2015 report can be subjected to a deeper comparative analysis. It welcomes the fact that the National Programme against Violence in the Family is the starting point for a strategy against violence in families, because it points to four points, four areas of action that have been mentioned by the previous speakers. I will repeat them once again, namely prevention and education, protection and assistance for those affected by family violence, impact on those who abuse the family, as well as improving the competences of the services and representatives of those involved in anti-violence activities in the family. Family violence must come out of the area of social indifference, because it does not only concern the social margin, but also affects those good families. The greater the social discord against violence, the less the victims of violence are. That is why we need to address issues relating to the cooperation of social workers, workplaces, police, schools, health centres, justice and close friends, issues relating to the real implementation of the decisions of the courts to separate the perpetrator from his victim - the perpetrator must be removed from home and not evacuate the family, issues relating also to changes in the rules of functioning of institutions from bureaucratic and control to intervention, advisory and support families, issues concerning the introduction of a system of verification of candidates for work, not only in terms of qualifications, but also in terms of predisposition, because note that these are missionary professions, and issues concerning extending the offer to assist families in terms of their actuality, i.e. Internet addiction, gambling, drugs, sex, alcohol, hat, but also for support for broken and unemployed families. This is possible by increasing employment in intervention facilities. Yeah, I'll mention once again - family assistants with a mission, psychologists, psychotherapists, sociotherapists. The next item is the development by local governments of annual or multi-annual anti-violence programmes in the family, the next item - the increase by local authorities of preventive actions aimed mainly at children and young people. Another issue is interdisciplinary teams with an appointed coordinator who has legal tools to conduct a real family support policy, going further, facilitating judicial cooperation with educational and correction programmes for perpetrators of violence and violence, further, developing psychological and therapeutic programmes for perpetrators and victims of violence in the family, monitoring progress of actions, e.g. by supervisors, with so much more desire. The next point is to harmonise the scattered legal acts into a single text, the query of statutory provisions in terms of their actual effectiveness, suitability on the basis of professional experience. [[♪ The bell ♪]] staff of intervention, care and education agencies. The fight against violence in the family must be more intense, more effective, and for years more governments have been trying to deal effectively with this problem. Let's show that we can do it's effective, because it's possible. Therefore, the Modern accepts and accepts the implementation of this 2014 report. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u401	Thank you. Mr Krystian Jarubas, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u402	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I am pleased to present my position on the report presented by the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the National Family Violence Action Programme for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2014 together with the position of committees, prints No 178 and 268. Ladies and gentlemen, the report concerns the first year of operation of the National Family Violence Action Programme for the 2014-2020 period. This is another element of the broadly understood programme for the benefit of the family. The basic law perfectly indicates the importance that the State attaches to the family, its development, prosperity and protection through its action. In response to the challenges posed by modern social relations, the government of the previous term decided to step up efforts to protect family safety and combat pathologies. As statistics show for the period 2014, with a relatively small financial commitment, but a huge institutional and social commitment, much has been achieved. The Minister pointed out a significant decrease in the number of adults declaring violence from 33.8% in 2010 to 24,7% in 2014 By characterizing the collectiveity of adult victims of violence, it can be said that they are mostly women, young people, with secondary or higher education, who are married. The results of the study indicate a strong relationship between being a victim or witnessing childhood violence and experiencing family violence in adult life. The discussion discusses actions taken in the event of family violence against adults and children. Ladies and gentlemen, bearing in mind the long-term assumptions and complexity of the subject and, above all, the causes of violence in the family, we can say that everything is in our hands. Speaking of this, I mean all citizens who face the problem of family violence in their nearest environment, and I want to tell them that you have every right and duty to fight any harm in the Polish family. It is wonderful that Blue Cards, Trust Phones or Support Centres are an emanation of legislative action. For the sake of order, it should be added that a large part of the coordination of all processes under the National Family Violence Prevention Programme was carried out in 2014 by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, which, as part of the national promotion campaign, promoted the idea of responding to the problems of violence among families with regard to citizens. The sense of responsibility for the fate of all Poles is in the hands of Poles themselves, while the role of the clerks is to create the right conditions for the development of such attitudes. It is clear that such conditions were created both from the point of view of the letter of law and from the point of view of public institutions themselves. Therefore, in view of these arguments, the club of the Polish People's Party supports the report. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u403	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If any of you wanna sign up, you're welcome. I'll close the list after the first question. Mr Dariusz Starzycki, Law and Justice have the floor. Time - one and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u404	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The actions carried out in our country for victims of violence in the family show that we have many opportunities to help those who experience violence from their loved ones. However, some of the solutions put in place make it difficult for aid institutions to work. The activities of interdisciplinary teams and working groups are undoubtedly very helpful in preventing violence in families, but the very procedure of Blue Cards, and here I agree with the Minister, is very bureaucratic. In the Śląskie voivodship in 2012 a bottom-up initiative was established by the leaders of interdisciplinary teams who established the Silesian Coalition for the Anti-Mounting of Violence in the Family. During their work, they drew attention to many of the problems they face in their current work under the Blue Cards procedure. In 2013, the coalition sent a recommendation to a number of institutions, including the former Prime Minister, asking for attention to be paid to the problem. She also created a two-page design form. Today this form in part And that's seven pages. However, the previous government has not addressed this issue, which is why I am asking the Minister whether it is possible to return to these demands, analyse them and implement them as soon as possible, which would certainly help solve the problems of violence in the family. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u405	Thank you. Mrs Anna Elizabeth Sobecka, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u406	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Mr. Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Although Poland is a country that is relatively good at dealing with this problem against other countries of the European Union, no case of family violence can be ignored. It is therefore necessary to develop prevention, i.e. forms of action to prevent violence in the family, to change public awareness, to effectively protect and help victims of violence, especially children, and to change the attitudes of those who use violence in the family. The hugely shrinking number of families holding the Blue Card is pleased if, of course, this number really reflects reality, and yet the media often inform us about family tragedies. In this connection, I ask: How will the Ministry mobilise local authorities to carry out broad-based prevention measures for people and families at risk of violence? How the Ministry wants to strengthen cooperation [[♪ The bell ♪]] between courts and those implementing programmes for correction and education for those who are violent in the family? Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u407	Thank you. Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u408	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The phenomenon of unemployment generates frequent conflicts in families, as shown by sociological studies. Unfortunately, unemployment levels are still far too high and long-term unemployment is the most perverting relationship in families. Hence my question: Is it not because of the often conflicting nature of the response to unemployment that specific programmes have been prepared for the environment of the long-term unemployed to prevent the emergence of conflicts in families that could lead to violence? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u409	Thank you. Mrs Józef Rzczurek-Żelazko, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u410	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to remind you that today we are discussing a report on the implementation of the National Family Violence Action Programme, which covers activities in 2014. The modern Member has made a number of criticisms about the current government about the implementation of this programme, and this is 2014, so at that time the power was exercised by the Civic Platform and the PSL. Ladies and gentlemen! As shown in the report, the implementation of this programme in 2014 was largely based on conducting or organising various types of training, conferences and printing of a large number of different types of materials. I understand that training and conferences are necessary in the first stage of each programme, but I have a question for the Minister: Is it envisaged that this programme will be remodeled for the following years and that other forms of work with the family may be considered, perhaps those that would be linked to direct work, both with victims and perpetrators of crime? The report on the implementation of the programme provides an opportunity to verify the objectives, methods of action and the way in which the performance of the tasks is financed. Therefore, the question is: Is it possible to modify this program? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u411	Thank you. Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u412	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In the report on the implementation of the National Programme for the Prevention of Violence in the Family for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2014, we find as many as 15 recommendations indicating its shortcomings, including the need to adapt the programme to the directives of the European Parliament and of the Council of Europe. Let us remind you that this was only the first year of implementation of the programme. Therefore, I have a question for the Minister: Does the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy provide for corrective work to correct the programme, which is necessary for its better functioning and therefore also for greater efficiency in subsequent years? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u413	Thank you. Mrs Joanna Augustynowska, as corrected.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u414	I just wanted to explain to you because I don't think you understand that I didn't criticize it by saying that the programme is bad, that the report is bad. I was just talking about my concerns about how to conduct social policy and the 500+ programme, which can change these effects in this direction. That's the fundamental difference.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u415	Thank you. Mrs Lydia Gądek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u416	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Family violence is one of the more painful things we deal with, and not just in the family in general - I mean mobbing at work and other forms of violence. This law, which we are talking about today, the implementation of this programme, as well as the fact that we previously passed anti-violence law, were supposed to contribute to reducing the number of pathologies in Polish families, generally in Polish society. This report, for which I thank you very sincerely, is accurate and objective, shows that the situation is generally improving, but of course we must strive to ensure that this improvement is stable and stable in order to eliminate pathologies from our lives. I have a question that I have already said in the context of the report. We also talked about this last year. I ask, actually, to increase the scope of education and the amount of information provided e.g. to health care facilities. Of course, the law is, should familiarize themselves with the health care system, but if we do not carry out a broad information campaign, unfortunately people who most often meet with [[♪ The bell ♪]] Pathology, they just won't know exactly how to behave at a given moment. And the other thing. Sorry, just one more sentence. I think it would be important to have a broader information campaign in churches and religious unions, where of course there are no Blue Cards issued, but which have an incredibly large impact on the creation of good behavior and good attitudes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u417	Thank you, Member. Mr Józef Lassot, Civic Platform. There's no envoy. Mrs Iwona Michalek, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u418	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have carefully read the report on the implementation of the National Anti-violence Programme in the Family. This report shows that the scale of violence is high. Although some have rightly pointed out here that it is getting better, it is not good. I was particularly interested in data on children and adolescents. It turns out that violence with children and young people is more common in poor families. Children and young people from large and medium-sized cities also point to the experience of physical violence to a greater extent than in rural areas. However, I particularly pointed out that students who do not have siblings are more committed to sexual violence than students who have siblings. And now I would like to ask the Minister whether, in the opinion of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, the 500+ programme that is being implemented will reduce the scale of these bad behaviours in the future, because I think that should be the case. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I do not agree with the Member who said that the 500+ family that this programme is bad, bad and everything that is bad is focused on it. I would like to ask that in future research into family violence take into account the 500+ programme, how it affected this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u419	Thank you. Ms Agnieszka Hanaczyk, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u420	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to say that at this point, twice during my previous term of office, I acted as rapporteur for the committee on the implementation of the anti-violence programme. From the mouth of the representatives of the PiS, the most common criticism of the implementation of this programme was crushing. I would therefore like to ask the Minister... It was also supported, as I recall, by the conclusions of the NIK, the control of the NIK, which was carried out on the fight against violence. The Minister was kind to mention some of the changes you are preparing for in the Ministry. If the Minister could further discuss - I do not know if this is possible at this stage - what these changes will be about. I remember, as the rapporteur of the committee, that the question of possible salaries for members of interdisciplinary teams has been raised several times in your mouth. Do you anticipate such wages, diets? The second thing that was very often discussed concerns the inefficiency of the tools that are designed to isolate the perpetrator from the victim. And another thing I know over the years has been a problem. The weakest link in response to violence was medical services. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Moreover, members of these services rarely attend meetings of interdisciplinary teams. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u421	Thank you. Mr Paweł Skutecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u422	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I'd like to ask you two questions. In this very comprehensive, very interesting report I lacked information about one of the most horrible forms of violence that affects at least tens of thousands of Polish children today, namely parental alienation. Is the Minister aware of the scale of the issue of parental alienation, especially in the context of such a large number of divorces and still so large, nevertheless, the number of decisions to restrict or take away parental rights. The second question, on the other hand. In the report, you assess the effectiveness of combating family violence by professionals such as social workers, curators, police officers, psychologists, doctors, nurses, etc., while you do not assess in any way the effectiveness in combating violence in the family of institutions such as the Ombudsman, the Ombudsman for the rights of the child, as well as the judges of family courts and civil courts which rule e.g. About your contacts with the kids. Are you also going to look at this professional group for family and family violence? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u423	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Mrs Elżbieta Bojanowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u424	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I listened attentively to the discussion, the questions raised and the doubts raised. Thank you for all your comments. I think that everyone in this room agrees that a properly functioning family, properly fulfilling its functions, translates into a society and its functioning. What I want to draw attention to Before I go to the questions? In all our actions, we must take care of the autonomy of the family, its subjectivity and sovereignty, and only react as a last resort when we are convinced that the family is wrong when we are sure that there is violence in the family. And violence has different faces. Its forms change, but also its causes. This is also seen in the example of the development of this programme over the years, its evaluation, its changes. Nor can we talk about violence without separateing ourselves from the whole cultural and moral context. It also has a big impact on the face of violence. Therefore, thank you for all your comments. They are very important to us, especially in the beginning, as I have said, which I would like to stress, or actually the discussion that has already begun on the change of the anti-violence system. I think that all the voices that came out here, from all sides, were in line with the fact that there is no doubt that we need to change here. It seems that some solutions need to be developed, but also introduced new ones, depending on the needs, because this is our role to respond to emerging needs, so that those who experience this violence have security, and a sense of security is one of the most important needs for everyone, so that representatives of services, qualified and well-prepared representatives of different services, can truly, effectively and effectively help. She said that there is much to be done before us. I think we can all agree that we have a lot to do. I hope that, after extensive consultation, a broad debate with practices, with experts, we will develop this good proposal for change and we will be able to process it. Referring to the Member's questions regarding the modification of the Blue Card procedure: all the voices that come to us clearly state that this procedure needs to be changed, improved, simplified. What I emphasized in my speech: we have to do so that it does not mark in any way - the moment when the 14,000. In 2014, as I reported, the pending cases did not take place - because we pointed out to someone that he had a Blue Card on. In this direction we must modify this card and, of course, of all the comments, all the good experiences, all the practices we will be very happy to benefit from. There were actually a few voices about prevention. If we're talking about the four actors that have the most impact on prevention -- family, school, local environment and global environment -- that's the hardest part, the smallest part, because it's the mass media. They must work closely together, without effective cooperation between these four actors there will be no effective prevention. We also need to make these tools as efficient as possible. With regard to programmes and modifications, I think that if there is a change of law, it is impossible not to modify, not to change the programme, it is obvious - to two Member States. As far as education is concerned, I believe that the professionalism of the services, the preparation, the experience of the services, so as to be competent in helping people - those who experience violence, and the perpetrators - yes, because we also need to remember these people - is the key. But I always say, as little as possible to enter the family. Medical services. I think it was also suggested here that they too will have to be more involved in this new programme, and we are hoping for greater and more effective cooperation. I hope I have all the questions in general. I think there was a question of financial resources raised in one of the speeches. I can only reassure you that those funds that were earmarked in 2014 - that was 12 271 thousand. to maintain specialist support centres for victims of violence in the family, then 3929 thousand. for the implementation of correction and education programmes for the perpetrators of violence and 234 thousand. to finance the organisation of trainings or a cover program - all this money is still, still secured in the budget. Where do changes or shifts come from? It is the voivods who move between these two positions according to their needs. If they believe that less resources are needed for specialised centres, they give more for the implementation of the programmes, or vice versa. Hence these shifts in the programmes, while there is no risk of financing here. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u425	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy requests the adoption of a report presented by the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the National Family Violence Action Programme for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2014. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: Report from the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the Act of 4 February 2011 on childcare under the age of 3 in 2014 (print No 179) together with the position of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs (print No 278). I ask the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Mr Bartosz Marczuk to present a report.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u426	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The report on the implementation of the Act of 4 February 2011 on the care of children under the age of 3 clearly shows us that forms of care for young children, which are currently in Poland, are developing in a way that... You can say that there are more and more places for these children in these particular forms of care, because since the entry into force of this law, i.e. since 2011... In 2010 there were 511 crèches and crèches, in 2014 there were 2493 such institutions. And as we look at the number of places that these institutions offer, we see that if in 2011 there were 32,000 of these places together, then in 2014 we already have nearly 71.4 thousand. Places. I can also talk about how it is in 2015: we have further growth here, it is almost 76 thousand. Places. So there are more and more of these places, and this also increases the percentage of children under the age of 3 who can benefit from this type of care: in 2010 it was 2.6% , in 2014 it is 7.1%. That's about the main picture of this reality. Now with regard to the details where these places arise, in which particular forms of care, there is indeed still a dominant role of daycare here. We've got 65 grand. these places in 2014, but there is also clear progress in children's clubs - that is almost 6 thousand already. places, and I will remind you that in 2011 it was only 209 seats. Daily maintainer - this number is also increasing, that is 541 seats in 2014. And here really is a very high dynamic of this growth, although of course this number of day carers is not yet very impressive. With regard to the extent to which those places of care are assumed, we have more and more market activities here, simply more and more private entities decide to operate this type of activity. And that's the picture you paint when it comes to taking care of children under the age of 3. It is also worth noting that after the introduction of this annual parental leave you can clearly see - this is an earlier trend, but you can also see - that children who are in this care are usually 2-year-old or 3-year-old children, which means we have very few children who are, the youngest, the smallest, who are taking advantage of this form of care, which probably suggests that it is the parents who take care of the children during the first period. One more word about what you might want to know. The Resort programme of The Little Man is a thing that you often ask about in your speeches. Of course, it's continued this year. This year, 2016, I will remind you of the date of the decision, we decided this programme on 29 February, which is quite quickly. Last year was April 24th. The funding of the number of places, new places, is close to 5.6 thousand, i.e. more than 5.5 thousand. In 2015, it was 3.8 thousand. Places. The money that was earmarked for this is, as last year, 151 million PLN. If you would like a detailed answer, of course I am at your disposal. This report of the Council of Ministers is quite detailed and here I encourage you to look at it, because there is indeed a lot of additional information there. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u427	Thank you, Minister. I would like to ask Mrs Ewa Kozanecka to present her position to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u428	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs in relation to the report of the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the Law of 4 February 2011 on the care of children under the age of 3 in 2014, print No 179. On 9 October 2015, the Polish Parliament received a document, i.e. Council of Ministers' report on the implementation of the Act of 4 February 2011 on childcare under the age of 3 in 2014. The Speaker of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, sent this report to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs for consideration by the Council of Ministers on 13 January 2016. Art. 6 The above Act obliges the Council of Ministers to present annually to the Sejm and the Senate, by 30 September, a report on the implementation of the Act. The report submitted on the implementation of the law is the third evaluation the effects of its validity. The report presents the characteristics of the institutional care system for children under the age of 3 and the implementation of the Law on the care of young children. Children under the age of 3 can be cared for in the form of a nursery or a children's club, as well as by a daily caretaker or nanny. As part of the care, the following functions are performed: caring, educational and educational. The Commission took note of the number of institutions and the number of childcare facilities under the age of 3 in 2010 and the functioning of crèches, children's clubs and day care institutions. In addition, the committee took note of the average monthly costs associated with the above mentioned. institutions in individual municipalities and voivodships. The Minister, responsible in a comprehensive manner, presented the results of the implementation of the "Maluch 2014' programme. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, after considering this report at its meeting on 25 February 2016, adopted it without a vote of opposition and recommends that the High House adopt the report in print No 179. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u429	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Anna Krupka, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u430	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the Law of 4 February 2011 on the care of children under the age of 3 in 2014. This law gives the possibility to establish other forms of care for the youngest than existing forms, such as children's club or day care provider. The provisions which entered into force on 1 October 2011 also allow for the legal employment of a nanny. The Act sets out the principles of the various forms of childcare, the conditions of the services provided, the number and qualifications of caretakers, the supervision of the conditions and the quality of such care. Art. The 6th Act requires the Council of Ministers to submit an annual report on its implementation to the Sejm and the Senate by 30 September. The present document summarises the effects of its operation in 2014 and is the third evaluation of the functioning of the Act. The annual reports of the Council of Ministers make it possible to verify whether the law is well implemented. So what was the purpose of this law? First of all, helping women who wanted to return to work after birth and maternity leave, while the primary objective was to encourage women to have children. Have these objectives been met in 2014? 2014 was important in terms of the implementation of this law, as there was an end to the transitional period allowing compliance with the conditions required by the Act and the mandatory receipt of an entry in the register of crèches and children's clubs. In 2014, as in previous years, the Act had some effect. Small children were being cared for at a rate similar to that of the previous year. The number of such institutions in 2014 was 2,5 000. The day care workers have arrived. It was the highest height because it was almost eight times. However, in numbers it looks modest, because 440 on the whole of Poland. In fact, day care providers were more than children's clubs, because they were 380, but the development of these institutions seems insufficient, i.e. in this respect the law does not bring a clear improvement. In 2014, care institutions offered a total of just over 71 thousand. Places. Every 16th child in Poland under the age of 3 had guaranteed care in nursery, children's club or day care provider. This is a modest result, but the data on the village is even worse - approx. 4700 seats were located in rural areas, i.e. only 6,5% all the places. Dramaticly, it appears that only 1% children with disabilities are taken care of. In addition, significant geographical differences can be observed here. In the Opole Voivodship there were 10 children for one place of care, while in my Świętokrzyskie voivodship or in Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship there were 26. Although the law was supposed to support the emergence of other forms of care than nursery care, it happened the other way around. They represent only 10% existing facilities in 2014. Although there is an increase in the number of children up to 3 years of age, but only 1.4 percent, the increase is very slow. Although funding from the state budget is foreseen, e.g. The "Milch' programme, that's only 8% all municipalities reported the need to create new places of care, declaring a total demand of around 25 000. Places. The most necessary places are in Mazowsze - more than 8 thousand, least in my Świętokrzyskie Voivodeship - 217, Podkarpackie - 245 and Lublin - about 320. Demand refers to about 2% children in Poland. Here is an important question: Why are the municipalities not interested in creating new places of care? The answer seems simple. According to data, 35% it was created and operated thanks to the funds of the programme of "Maluch" and thus without a small 2/3 of the facilities is financed mostly by the municipalities. As part of the Operational Programme, 239 contracts have been completed. On the basis of them, only 380 childcare institutions started their activities. The report therefore shows great optimism, but when we look at numbers, it becomes moderate. The law set good goals, but it does not meet expectations, especially parents who hoped that the situation of care for young children would change significantly after the law was introduced. It is an example of the residual activities of the previous team in the field of social affairs. Law and Justice look at these issues differently: support for families, encouragement to bring forth children are among the main objectives of our government, parliament, current power. Despite my reservations, I ask for information, however, provided that the principles of the law and its effectiveness need to be re-examined, especially in the context of the social programme of Law and Justice. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u431	Thank you very much. Mrs. Eva Drozd, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u432	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club to present my position on the report of the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the Act of 4 February 2011 on childcare up to the age of 3. Before I proceed to the report, I would like to allow myself, Minister, to thank you for seeing how much has been left. It's done on this point. During this last period, when we hear all the time that the previous coalition has done nothing to support the family, this bill, I think, is one tiny element that supports this family, and such elements were still many. I think that in further work, the Minister will also see how much is left. made to support the family so that it can be realized in a family and professional way. Nor can I agree with the Member who, I think, has not known since the beginning of the history of the bill. Let me remind you that this is the first piece of legislation that comprehensively regulates the care system for children under the age of 3. I will tell you that before this law entered into force, the only form was nursery care, except for nannies who were illegally employed. Nurseries were subject to the Ministry of Health and were subject to huge commitments to meet the conditions for them to function. You were perfectly aware that before the law came into force, and that was not so long ago, because five years ago, these facilities were 511. This law introduced new forms, alternative to the form of nursery, such as children's clubs, daycare providers. Of course, you did not mention this to the Minister or tell the Member that this law allowed the nannies to leave the grey zone. Please check how many nannies have paid the Social Insurance Institution's contributions and are legally employed at the moment. I would like to say to you that the provision that we introduced on the preparation of this report by the Council of Ministers was to monitor this law, monitor its records, how they are implemented, because, as I said earlier, it is a novel. The idea was that each of these forms would respond to the parents' different needs. There are multi-hour forms and larger groups of children, there are forms in which these children are less and they are left for a shorter period, but there is also a form of daily caretaker, where children are few, and if the parent has the will, it uses this form. I would also like to say that this law sets out supervision and responsibility for carrying out the tasks resulting from it, including qualification requirements for staff to take care of children. In the report I examined, I did not find any reservations as to the supervision of local authorities, nor the information on unskilled staff, but, on the contrary, much information was about how many courses were carried out to prepare such staff. I would like to say once again that this is the next year of this law, which shows a really dynamic increase in the number of childcare institutions, the number of places and the number of children in these institutions. The Minister talked about it and all the numbers are talking about it. It should be noted that since the introduction of this law, the form of daily guardian has not been of particular interest. We have talked on this subject many times, we have taken various measures to encourage non-gender actors and municipalities to take advantage of this form, especially in rural areas where there is no need for institutional crèches, and this form would be excellent to help young mothers take care of their children. I have to say, it's a matter of day care. It moved a bit, as from 56 such facilities at the end of 2013, this figure increased in 2014 to 442, i.e. by 689%. It was a difficult task because, as you all know, caring for these children is a task of their own communities. For this reason, the governing coalition has prepared the programme "Milch" to support the actions of municipalities to organise childcare. The programme, as you followed, was also modified under the influence of these reports. In the first version it was intended only for municipalities, in the following years also non-dominant entities were included, in the first version only the creation of such sites was envisaged, and later support for already run establishments. It is not mentioned here that another programme was also created: "A little boy at the university." This is the consequence of the implementation of this law and these reports and the conclusions of these reports. From the information I have, it appears that many universities have benefited from this form and the programme of the University's Little One is perfect for these institutions. We also went out to meet the entrepreneurs. They have the opportunity to create benevolent crèches. This form is not very popular, but in this case we have also applied reliefs, which would help large businesses, and parents who work there, to care for small children. To sum up, I have to tell you that growth, however we look at it, is noticeable and continuous, is dynamic. The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club will therefore vote in favour of this report. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u433	Thank you. Mr Agnieszka Chasing, Kukiz,15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u434	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club, 15 I have the honour to present my position on the report of the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the Law of 4 February 2011 on the care of children under the age of 3 in 2014. State aid for child care up to 3 years is a very important initiative. The objectives of the programme include a wide range of support offers and the law itself indicates solutions to ensure good conditions for children in the area of housing, care, good monitoring of these conditions. This direction of the country's pro-family policy is in line with part of the expectations of parents, young parents. Supporting child care is a factor that certainly contributes to the fact that young moms decide to have a child because they have a sense of security that allows them to think freely about returning to work, they have this care provided, especially when we are talking about moms who live in the countryside. However, we have some comments, but these are probably comments already to the evaluation, to this programme, concerning what could be seen, especially looking at statistics, notes to the law, as well as notes to the programme Firstly, there is some injustice and unequal access to the financing of a child's stay in a nursery or a children's club. Injustice mainly concerns individuals who carry out these forms of childcare. The municipality is obliged to finance the stay of the child only if such a unit, i.e. the form of support, leads just the municipality itself or the local government, and maybe - and this is a key word: it can - finance the stay of the child if the institution is run by another entity, e.g. a private entity or a non-governmental organisation. Institutions run by other entities, such as organisations or individuals, have the right to the same rules as local authorities. Very often they provide services at a really high level. The rule that should apply to financing is a rule that is based on the quality of services, and here it cannot be clearly stated that only institutions run by the local government provide a good offer. Parents have the right to choose and this market allows for this verification. The second defect related to this inequality concerns the resort scheme Here you mentioned earlier the progress of this evaluation, that other forms were allowed after some time. Indeed, at the present time, the first and second modules of the programme are aimed at local governments, funding - so I read from the report statistically and numerically - it is 80 million, 7 thousand, slightly more than 7 thousand. places for children, while the third module, which is addressed to non-governmental organisations or private entities, is only 21 million, and surprisingly, 13 thousand were created. childcare facilities. As you can see, the efficiency of spending money by private entities or by NGOs to create these jobs is significantly greater. So this injustice is incomprehensible, why there is so little money and this inequality between applicants for funding. Hence, such rules for the management of these measures are incomprehensible. This year, too, there is a clear gap between the amounts allocated to non-governmental organisations or private actors for the creation of these jobs. In addition, it should be noted that such measures should be distributed through a competition of offers, so the competition should be aimed at the quality, for the good of this offer, at the conditions it meets, and not at who makes such an offer, because it is a denial of healthy competition and as if it does not work favorably that this competition improves the market, improves the quality of these services. It is such a conclusion in the context of the evaluation of this programme that these proposals should be taken into account. In addition, Kukiz15 will decide to support the adoption of the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u435	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Paweł Skutecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u436	Mr. Marshal! Minister! As my colleague said, we will support this report, but there is a very deep concern that you want to follow the path set by the previous coalition, which is that you know better than your parents, how to take care of these three-year-olds or these children up to 3 years old. It seems to us that the parent knows best what form of care is most suitable for his child. As we can see from the example of daily carers, ideas that go from above are not always accepted by parents themselves. We would suggest that you return to what you promised in the campaign, i.e. a return to a higher tax-free amount, which includes. It will be possible for parents to take care of their children. [[That's not gonna happen.]] We would recommend giving up VAT or reducing to zero VAT on children's clothes, on food, on all the articles that are necessary to care for young children, to care for them, to raise them. In our opinion, this is the right way, not the creation of such fictional beings as this day caretaker. Because, as in the lens, you can see how Poles' expectations and aspirations of the government, of every government that has dealt with this matter, are missing. Most importantly, let's try... I know that this goes beyond the scope of this law, but in some ways the nanny's institution was supposed to legalize, among others. taking care of grandmothers' grandchildren. I'm just wondering if the Minister has any idea how else to activate these grandmothers that are about to be needed, because if your 500+ program goes off, you assume it's going to work, I'm not that optimistic, but if it goes off... (Mr Joanna Borowiak: Of course it will. Of course it'll work.) ...it will appear on the nursery market a lot of children, and your report shows that there are not enough of these places today. Do you have any ideas about that? My idea in person would be to activate grandmothers. Thank you. [[Voice from the room: We can do this.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u437	Thank you very much, sir. Ms Joanna Augustynowska, Moderna, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u438	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The reading of the Council of Ministers' report on the implementation of the Act of 4 February 2011 on the care of children under the age of 3 raises very mixed feelings. I welcome the fact that the Minister's words of appreciation for the actions of the previous government are coming from the Minister's mouth. Unfortunately, however, we are looking with concern at the future of this programme and the intentions of the current government regarding social policy. Clearly, the number of institutions and places of care has increased considerably. However, a glance at the numbers shows that the progress that has taken place is far from sufficient. We have advanced from dramatically low to very weak, and it is in everyone's interest to follow carefully the conclusions that come from the report and to ask questions that come to mind. First of all, I am worried about how the results of the sensible programme can be destroyed by the government's withdrawal from the school obligation of six-year-olds. How is it possible that the Polish State is introducing systemic solutions that will very likely lead to - I apologise for the expression - congestion at the interface between early school care and education systems? I am, of course, referring to the gap in institutional care and the problem that will arise when six-year-olds who are not sent to school take the seats that children need by 3 years younger. Secondly, the results cannot be expected to be satisfactory when the municipalities are delegated further tasks, reducing them financially. Again - which social programme is already plagued by this problem? - the competence of the persons responsible for its implementation comes first. We all agree with Minister Rafalska's statement that children are not costs, but investment, but, Minister, every investment should be preceded by detailed analyses, any investment can prove to be a failure and bring losses. It is not art to give 500 PLN to some children. If we were to use this part of the 17 billion that will absorb the 500+ programme to support local forms of childcare - I am thinking, above all, of the institutions of children's clubs, day carers and the improvement of local staff and carers' candidates - the results could be much better and more expected. Perhaps less people would also apply to their employers for a reduction in their salary in order to receive funding. I asked myself why Opole Voivodeship left far behind other regions of the country. They must be modelled and carefully analysed why this has happened. However, I would not be surprised if the quality of local staff and the strong tradition of local activity were responsible for a significant part of this advantage. Small communities organize better and alternative in relation to daycare, care should be particularly strongly promoted. This raises the next question: How did it happen that in some voivodships not one day's caretaker was hired? In the face of such huge problems, queues to place and save your children to nursery long before they were born? Is the problem too high requirements for candidates? Lack of funding? There is no doubt that the most important thing remains to be done in this area. It cannot be expected that the State will take institutional care of children from all over the country. They're fantasies. The natural environment of raising children is the family, and its substitute will undoubtedly be better provided by a well-known and chosen caretaker, who looks after a few of the comforts of his neighbors, grandmother, than even a very good nursery. An additional advantage is, let's call it, the half return of such a carer, if it is a mother or senior, to the labour market. And the cost to parents is barely, averaging, of course, PLN 168 per month. The majority of the caretaker's salary is covered by the municipality. For the time being, in 2014, the State has spent 6200 000 for this purpose. zł. This is dramaticly low. It's just nothing compared to the program the government prides itself on. There was also no consultation. Parents should be more empowered, most of whom successfully raise their children without any state aid. These people are really better than the clerk or the collegial body of the Sejm, who know what their children need. The state should only relieve them financially and create the conditions for training as many carers as possible. This means an incentive system and an intensified information campaign. It is important to act on all fronts here, although as Minister Marczuk rightly pointed out, it is never at the expense of children's safety. With certain standards, such as the need to control the principles of first aid by daily carers, we must never give up under any circumstances. However, it cannot be that certain forms of childcare are under-used, because the staff are not aware of legal solutions or - it is already completely absurd - local authorities are not particularly interested in supporting alternatives to daycare, because - I will quote the Minister again - these are not things that can be said later. I don't think that's the point. To conclude, I would like to call for the simplification of the rudely bureaucratic programme "Milch" and greater emphasis on the use of still available European funds. Thankfully, this last financial opportunity that the European Union gives us was passed before the Law and Justice came to power. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u439	Thank you very much. I guess Mrs. Cornelia Wróblewska isn't here, right? [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] Mr Krystian Jarubas, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u440	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I am pleased to present my position on the report of the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the Act of 4 February 2011 on the care of children under the age of 3 in 2014 together with the position of committees, prints No. 179 and 278. Ladies and gentlemen! The Commission proposes the adoption of a report on the implementation of the Law of 4 February 2011 concerning the care of children under the age of 3. This law introduced two new ways of helping parents into the child care system by the age of 3. Children's clubs and day care and the legal form of hiring a nanny. The report covers the period from 4 April 2011 to 4 April 2014. At this time, as we read in the report's conclusions, we are seeing a dynamic increase in the number of childcare institutions and the number of places in these institutions. Of course, this welcomes and is a tangible help at the end of the annual parental leave and at the return to work of young parents working on the job and outside the Labour Code system under contract law. Attention should also be paid to the growth of private childcare initiatives up to three years old. This is a good forecast for the development of this type of business, especially since the number of children per place in daycare, children's club or day care in 2014 was on average 16. There is an increase in the number of places in different types of childcare up to 3 years of age in the employment of carers, nurses and technical workers needed for the proper functioning of care institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, such a way of subsidising, creating and functioning of care institutions is effective and part of family policies, which the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz gave the real beginning and development of which in 2011 and 2015. Thus, in relation to the article. Article 71 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 the Constitution, which provides: The state in its social and economic policy takes into account the well-being of the family. Families in difficult material and social situations, especially many children and underprivileged ones, have the right to special assistance from public authorities, it should be considered that the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party will support the report. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u441	Thank you very much, sir. I'm ordering a five-minute recess. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 21 mins 30 hours 21 min 35]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 17 of the agenda. Let's get to the questions. Mrs Anna Elizabeth Sobecka, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u442	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The statistical data show that municipalities continue to make little use of the possibility of ordering care organisations in the form of a children's club, daily carers or nannies to other entities pursuant to Article. 61 laws. Only 15% Municipal children's clubs were run by other entities. This may indicate potential inefficiencies, as well as ignorance of the practical implementation of the above-mentioned provisions. Unfortunately, I'm not a crèche supporter. I think, unfortunately, that knowledge of the consequences of premature separation of a child from a mother is very low in our country, and yet this leads to health and emotional disorders of a child who is shadowed throughout his life. The nursery is an absolute necessity. Then I ask: How will the possibilities of municipalities be increased by ordering other care organisations in the form of a children's club or daily carers? What costs [[♪ The bell ♪]] will they be involved in this task? Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u443	Thank you. [[Where's the bravo?]] [[Applause]] Ms Agnieszka Hanaczyk, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u444	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Act on Child Welfare up to the age of 3 of 2011 provided that economic operators had to comply with the requirements of the Act by 2014. Do you have any information on how many economic operators have complied with this provision and how many have resigned from continuing to operate under the terms of the Act? And the second question I would like to ask is, do you have any idea of what could be done under the legislation or the act of the law itself, in order to promote the need for a daily caretaker institution, which is so far developing its activities, but still inadequately? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u445	Thank you. Mrs Lydia Gądek, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u446	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! First of all, the report is very well presented. Thank you, Minister, for admitting that this bill is a good bill, good for Polish families. Of course, that is why these reports are required by law, so that we can not only judge, but also draw conclusions, what else should be done to make this law work better, of course for the sake of Polish children. The consensus is that practically all representatives of the clubs as well as the Minister and the representative of the committee are present. Good records are working. It is evident that progress in the years to come has been increasing in the number of crèches, small clubs, but also children's carers. Therefore, I have a question as to whether the current government has secured the means to ensure that, this year and in subsequent years, these forms of childcare up to the age of 3 are not only functioning as before but also developing. What are education systems and support systems for local governments and employers to develop these forms of care decisively? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I dare not agree with one of the previous speakers who said that nursery is evil. A well run nursery definitely improves the development of a small child, especially emotional development. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u447	Thank you. Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u448	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In the report of the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the Act of 4 February 2011 on the care of children under the age of 3 in 2014, we find an analysis of the Ministry's development programme of childcare institutions under the age of 3 years. The program consists of three modules. In module one, intended for municipalities, only a few voivodships took advantage of the possibility of creating new places of care in children's clubs and day-to-day carers. In Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship, which is very much in my heart, because I am a Member of this voivodship, the number of these places created in crèches, children's clubs, with daily carers in 2014 amounted to zero. Minister, my question is, how can this happen? Is it a negative effect, difficult for the municipalities to meet the criteria, or is it a result of the failure of municipalities or defective applications made by the municipalities? Or did the amount of PLN 101 million allocated to the implementation of all three modules - for the first module 40 million - turn out to be too small? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Like a star from the theater.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u449	Thank you. Mrs Iwona Michalek, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u450	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The report relates to the implementation of the childcare programme under the age of 3. I want to focus on this age of children, of course. I would like to say that I am very pleased that the number of childcare facilities and the number of places in these institutions are increasing. It is good that the family becomes - I hope it will be - this highest value for all, absolutely all Members in this Parliament. I wanted to ask you if the Ministry thinks that the 500+ programme has a chance to alleviate the problem of many families where Mom has to go to work for financial reasons right now and not afford a babysitter or nursery. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u451	Thank you. Mr Józef Lassot, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u452	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Indeed, this report shows that there are very positive effects of this action, of which we are all very sure that we are happy, all Members of this House, because this is concrete. And I have this question, actually a little systemic, for the report itself. Well, the report is very well presented and various data are shown in very detail, but I believe that the report has two objectives. What's the purpose of this report? The report is done to see what the reality is, what the effect is, but also in my opinion the report should give some conclusions, indications of what's next, right? I looked with this hope to the last point: Conclusions resulting from the implementation of the law and unfortunately I did not find these conclusions there, because I found only a summary. A summary is not a conclusion. Would the Minister be able to present any conclusions from your analysis that result from your thoughts? Should these projects be carried out in the same way, or should something be supplemented, changed? Is there any way for the Minister to present this? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u453	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Mr Bartosz Marczuk.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u454	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm gonna answer some specific questions. Mrs Sobecka asks what can be done to create more children's clubs and there are more daily carers. I agree with the honourable Member here that these are the very forms of care that are flexible, small, adapted to the needs of parents, these are the forms that seem to be the best here. Apart from the fact that, of course, if we want to build the whole crèche infrastructure, we have to bear the specific costs of this infrastructure. As far as the day caretaker is concerned, I would remind you that in quotes there is a promotion of this daily caretaker, because the municipalities that are applying for money in the "Money" are supposed to declare whether they are preferred in the program if they launch this day caretaker. However, it seems that here, despite, of course, a certain consensus regarding the fact that the law is functioning fairly well, there is indeed a need for some changes. Of course, I will not present these changes today, because it is difficult at this point to talk very much about it, but it seems that the first example on the side is an open question whether the guardian of children should remain only and only the person who is employed by the municipality or another institution. I mean, in a situation where we have, especially 500... I will come to that, to Mrs Michalek's question. If we have a demand for money that people probably want to use for this kind of service, the question is whether to continue to hold on to this kind of solution. Why not just let people start companies and do it in the form of self-employment or simply in the form of a contract-ordering? A mother who takes care of a child at home receives two children, I don't know, a neighbor or from the neighborhood and she issues an invoice or possibly they order it to her and there is 500 PLN per child. So I think this is where you have to think about this direction. Similarly, the question is whether the child club should only be able to care for up to 5 hours, because that is the rule at the moment. So that here are question marks, what to do next, so that the real supply of these flexible services, good for parents, is greater. The question of Mrs Hanajczyk is whether they have adapted. Allow me to reply in writing because I don't have accurate data here right now. As far as the day caretaker is concerned, as I said, we will think about doing so. Turning right to Mrs Michalek's question, I will say that 500+ is the ideal programme, a project that allows parents to choose freely. I mean, they have money at this point, and I expect it, and I've said this many times, that 500+ will cause demand for these services, and that's also going to be followed by supply. It seems that everything must now be done to open up this supply and try to act so that these various forms arise so that people do not have a problem with it. And of course 500 PLN per child greatly relieves the stress of parents due to the fact that they have nothing to do with small children because they can simply buy these services on the market, and it is known that these services are not yet cheap. Mrs Gądek's question is whether the measures are secured. I have already said here that in 2016 this is the amount of PLN 151 million, i.e. the funds for the programme "Maluch" are secured. In fact, the issue of the program is already settled, so as to answer the question, it's just that the money is. And let me remind you what I mentioned earlier - 5605 places, this is the number of places that will be co-financed as part of care, these are those that will arise. Here, during the presentation of positions, there was a question about these university places - 1700 places at universities, 31 universities applied in module 3 to create places at universities. The support system for local governments is also Mrs Gądek's question. They're training for municipalities. A total of PLN 30 million from the European Union is foreseen for the dissemination of these forms. As regards the question by Mrs Borowiak, Kujawsko-Pomorskie Voivodeship, 2014 - zero. Of course, I do not know exactly what happened in this voivodship, but it can be assumed that the municipalities did not submit applications for the program or that they were - because there was a rank in this program - cut off, because not all the municipalities that submitted applications for the creation by last year received aid. We have come to the conclusion this year, because a larger amount is allocated - and this is probably the second reason, it was 101 million, now it is 151 - that we have come to the conclusion that we will pay all the municipalities without cutting off those that would not have caught the full amount. We thought that because the municipality has a 20% contribution there and has already booked this money at its own place, if it doesn't even get 100% These measures that she would expect, and she will get, as this year, about 65%, are still able to make this effort and find that extra money somewhere. That way we'll have more of these places just. But when there was a previous model, it was that we cut off, e.g. This year, we're going to cut off 30 municipalities, so at this point, the 80 would get 100%. but these 30 would get nothing, so they would only have 20% booked in the budget, and they would have to find 80. And perhaps that was also the reason why the Kujawsko-Pomorskie Voivodeship did not create these places. So money, a possible conclusion, and a system of distribution of that money. And to conclude, the answer to Mr Lassota's question means... As far as the proposals for the future are concerned, as I said, the fact is that the 500+ programme offers a very good opportunity to think about supporting, in particular, these family-friendly smaller forms of care. Of course, we'll think about it and work on it. Like I said before, here is, among others. It is the issue of the day care provider, so whether or not to do it on our own, with the children's club, whether it has to be 5 hours, with the change in the program - this is what we have already done, i.e. all the municipalities receive this money. We will move in this direction so that parents who have the will, if they also receive these additional 500 PLN, can benefit as much as possible from these forms of care for a small child. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u455	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy requests the adoption of a report by the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the Law of 4 February 2011 on the care of children under the age of 3 in 2014. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 22. of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Law on the amendment of the Civil Procedure Code Act and some other laws, the Act amending the Civil Code Act, the Code of Civil Procedure Act and some other laws, the Tax Administration Act and some other laws (print No 312). I ask Mr Mark Ast to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u456	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the applicants, I have the honour to present a bill amending the Act amending the Code of Civil Procedure Act and certain other laws, the Act amending the Civil Code Act, the Code of Civil Procedure Act and some other laws, the Act on Tax Administration and some other laws contained in print No 312. The proposed changes are dictated by the fact that, although the development of an IT system enabling applications to be submitted via the IT system is already completed, tests of this system by its users are still being carried out. In view of the fact that the National Council of Notarials raises reservations about the operation of the system and points out that it is too short a time to prepare thoroughly for the submission of formal applications for inclusion in the perpetual ledger by means of an electronic system, it is justified to postpone the date of entry into force of the Act. Electronic applications for inclusion in so-called. the electronic accounting procedures submitted by means of an electronic system have been prepared in accordance with the assumptions in order to make it as easy as possible for courts to work, to speed up the perpetual accounting procedure and to enable automatic mention of the application to be made when the application is submitted. This assumption makes the applications formalized, and their use requires further training and training. Taking into account all the above-mentioned circumstances and the need for very thorough verification of the EKW system by notaries, bailiffs and courts, it is justified to change the date of entry into force of the Act of 15 January 2015 amending the Code of Civil Procedure Act and certain other laws in so far as it has not yet entered into force. It is proposed that the Act in this respect should enter into force on 8 September 2016, that is, on the date of the entry into force of the Act of 10 July 2015 amending the Civil Code Act, the Code of Civil Procedure Act and certain other laws. Both of these laws are interrelated. Repeal of the Article The Law of 15 January 2015 amending the Civil Procedure Code and certain other laws is justified by the fact that this provision is of a transitional nature and its duration is specified until 23 August 2016. As it is proposed that the Act of 15 January 2015 should enter into force on 8 September 2016, the maintenance of that provision is without object. Repeal of point 1 of Article 1 The Civil Code Act, the Civil Procedure Code Act and certain other laws of 10 July 2015 are the consequence of the transfer of the date of entry into force of the Civil Code Act of 15 January 2015 to 8 September 2015. Listed in Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 23 point 1 of the Law of 10 July 2015 Art. 2 point 48 (a) The Commission It is therefore desirable that this provision also enter into force on 8 September 2016, that is, on the date of the entry into force of the Law of 10 July 2015. The amendment of the date of entry into force of the Law of 15 January 2015 justifies the amendment of point 1 in Article. 77 of the Tax Administration Act of 10 July 2015. The article mentioned in this editorial unit. 13 should enter into force on the date of the entry into force of the Act of 15 January 2015, with which it is closely connected. Amendments proposed in Article 4, 5 and 6 result from the entry into force of the Law of 28 January 2016. The Law on the Prosecutor's Office and the Provisions introducing the Law on the Prosecutor's Office and aim to eliminate obvious typographical errors. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 4 it is proposed to add in the statutory authorisation provided for in Article. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Law of 18 December 1998 on judicial staff and prosecutors to point 1 of that provision in the wording of the terms and military terms. The proposed amendment aims to eliminate a typographical error by deleting these words. This will allow the appointment by regulation of positions in military courts in which officials and other servants are employed in accordance with the existing legal status and prescribed by the law, since the regulation issued under this authorisation has been retained in force under Article. 73 (2) of the Law of 28 January 2016. Provisions introducing the Law on the Prosecutor's Office, Art. 5. In a word, High Izbo, it seems that these changes are necessary, are justified and, of course, on behalf of the applicants, I request that the bill be passed on to further legislative work. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u457	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u458	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present on behalf of the club Law and Justice a position on the draft law amending the Law on the amendment of the Code of Civil Procedure Act and some other laws, the Act amending the Civil Code Act, the Code of Civil Procedure Act and some other laws, the Act on Tax Administration and some other laws. This amendment includes amendments to several laws, in particular to postpone the date of entry into force of the Act of 15 January 2015 amending the Code of Civil Procedure Act and certain other laws in so far as it has not yet entered into force. The Act would enter into force on 8 September 2016, i.e. on the date of entry into force of the related Act of 10 July 2015 amending the Civil Code and other laws. This concerns the development of an electronic system enabling applications to be submitted in the perpetual accounting procedure via the electronic system. The aim is to facilitate the work of courts and to speed up proceedings in such cases. Although work on the system has been completed, the system tests have not been completed. Too short time is indicated for thorough preparation for the use of the system. As the proposals are formalised, it seems advisable to complete the necessary training and training. Given the circumstances indicated, the project is well-founded. By acting on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, I declare that the club will support further legislative work on this project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u459	Thank you very much. Mr Arkadiusz Myrch, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u460	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Requestor! I see that after the introduction of the new meaning of the word "immediately" we now have a new definition of the concept of a typographical mistake, because it is not possible to call the scope of these changes such a quality. Ladies and gentlemen, this seemingly innocent-looking bill, and modest in its content at the same time, arouses mixed feelings. This is a picture of the way the Law and Justice treats the law and its rules. The intention of applicants is, as it may seem, only a monthly deferral of the date of entry into force of the electronic system enabling applications to be submitted in the perpetual accounting procedure. That is what the article is about. 1 to 3. However, reading the following articles shows that, by the way, Law and Justice amends rules that have no substantive or functional connection with the preceding rules. Please note that Article. From 4 to 6 refer to laws which should be amended as a result of the adoption of the Law on the Prosecutor's Office. Thus, half of this draft law is in no way related to the title of this draft. This matter should therefore be a separate subject of regulation and should be covered by a separate legal act. This law therefore smuggles laws that are not included in the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Law on the Law implementing the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office by mere negligence on the part of the Law and Justice. Moreover, this draft law contains an amendment to the article. 57 Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office to the extent that during the committee's work this defect was indicated not only by the Civic Platform but also by the employees of the Legislative Office. Unfortunately, at the time, there was no willingness to listen, and the result is now to adopt another law. Especially noteworthy is the fact that once again Law and Justice introduces a vacathio legis of zero days, excluding, of course, Article. 4. Not before yesterday, as yesterday, the Constitutional Tribunal stressed the great role of this important institution in the law-making process. It shall find its anchor in Article. 2 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland, which states that Poland is a democratic legal state. The lack of vacathio legis shows that once again Law and Justice is in a hurry, that once again Law and Justice voted the defective bill. Unfortunately, as I regret, this law improves with a kind of legal bubble, because it cannot be otherwise called a normative act which is contrary to the principles of correct legislation. In conclusion, I would just like to point out that I do not have any comments on the provisions of the draft law itself, because delaying the deadline or correcting other laws is nothing wrong, but the circumstances and the procedure for adopting this proposal leave much to be desired. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u461	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Długi, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u462	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I'm sorry I don't have a tie, but it's late. [[The Marshal isn't here either.]] Secondly, I would like to say that I am taking an example from the marshal, thirdly, in the parliaments of Greece, Israel, etc. ties are not used at all, so I think we can be a little more comfortable here, and there is no Mrs Pomaska to shout to me that I am dressed inappropriately. I'm getting to the bottom of this. I am not surprised by the number of smiles on the face of the Member who spoke on behalf of the Club of Law and Justice, because the case is at the border of grotesque. We have two elements in this project: one element, which is consistent with the title of the bill, and the other element, which was simply smuggled in, so we put a tiny face here, hoping that no one would notice. Let's start with what's relevant here, i.e. issues relating to the electronic initiation of the perpetual accounting procedure. This case is very important because we know that the security of real estate trading in this country depends on the smooth operation of this system. This system is being developed in a multi-stage manner. It started with the introduction of an electronic perpetual book, access via the Internet to it. Now, the next step is that notaries, bailiffs, treasure officials will be able to post their applications electronically immediately, which is immediately. The hope is that we can get things done faster, we can get things done faster. This should also help the courts that have to deal with the terrible number of accounts, so this idea is of course very right and a little bit closer to modernity. However, it is not difficult at this point to support the fact that if the system is not ready, we cannot introduce it. This is understandable to us and in this respect we can support it, only that we are counting on it - and I am glad that the Minister of Justice is here - that it will be explained, however, why this delay has taken place. Someone won the bid, somebody probably got a lot of money to prepare this system, and the system's not working. That someone knew what time he was gonna do it. I understand that it was the previous government that did this, but that doesn't change the fact that the current government should explain why such delays occurred because it is unacceptable. I learned today that after half an hour of testing, after half an hour of trying this system, everything just collapsed. This can't be right. I think we're a country that has enough good computer scientists to create a good system. So perhaps we should see if this agreement has been properly constructed. Second problem. I will no longer talk about the electronic book of perpetual electronic initiation, but the changes that are proposed in the Law about the prosecutor's office and others indicate that with great pain, really with great pain I must admit here to the right of my previous speaker. It can't be that the law is done on the knee, and here's an example of doing the law on the knee. Such a law then has many unintended errors. I won't mind whether it's an obvious typographical mistake or another, because that's not our goal, but it can't be that way. Because we make law every day, then we have this kind of problem. Maybe these problems aren't crucial yet, they won't kill these projects, but they might be one that, if we make the law that way, they'll create a hybrid that will kill the idea at all. This is unacceptable. And on the one hand, we understand that this needs to be improved - and here, of course, our club has no other choice but to agree to it - but we want to emphasize that we cannot create law on the knee. This law, which concerned the Constitutional Tribunal, was also created on the knee. The marshal here said that, for this reason, we could not support the Constitutional Court Act in the first place. Now we see on this little example that just too fast, too nervous means wrong. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u463	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Mirosław Pampuch, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u464	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! The Parliamentary draft law amending the Civil Procedure Code Act and certain other laws, the Law amending the Civil Code Act, the Civil Procedure Code Act and some other laws, the Tax Administration Act and some other laws. Once again, MEPs must reach out to the government with a helping hand, because the government cannot solve the problems it faces on its own, which lie within its responsibilities. Of course, the introduction of this bill as a parliamentary project, and in this mode that we are experiencing today, has nothing to do with the principle of correct legislation. I fully share the Member's comments on the systematics of this legislation, so the first three articles are nothing like another three articles covered by this standard. [[And the title.]] Both titles, yes. And so indeed in the article. 1, 2 and 3 are faced with a proposal from the National Notarial Council, which raises reservations about the IT system in the perpetual accounting procedure. This change in the date of entry into force should be considered as indicated, as the Act of 15 January 2015 introduces inter alia. the obligation to initiate the perpetual accounting procedure by electronic means by certain entities, i.e. notaries, bailiffs and heads of tax offices acting as enforcement bodies. This obligation exists when a specific provision of the law obliges one of these entities to submit an application for entry in the perpetual book. In addition, it will be permissible for the parties to submit letters in this system. It is therefore important that the IT system handling this procedure functions properly and verify these identification data submitted by notaries or bailiffs. It is therefore important to work on these irregularities and eliminate them so that these systems work properly in the future. On the other hand, the article. 4, 5 and 6, as I have already mentioned, is nothing more than the result of the wrong organization of government work. I must say that the honeymoon is over, Mr Minister, and we need to get to work, not make this type of drop-offs, and this is such a taunting deadline that violates all the principles of correct legislation. In presenting these comments, thank you. Of course, we will not be asking for this to be rejected at first reading. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u465	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u466	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party Allow me to present the position of the club regarding the draft law amending the Act amending the Code of Civil Procedure Act and certain other laws, the Act amending the Civil Code Act, the Code of Civil Procedure Act and some other laws, the Act on Tax Administration and some other laws. The mere fact that the agenda is being extended to include this draft is a serious concern. On average, it actually gives us an opportunity to recognize, even though matter is not very complicated. It is important to understand the intentions of designers. Nevertheless, it is not good for a project in this kind of process, as it has happened today, complex. Nevertheless, in a few sentences Let me refer to a few aspects. First thing. It's not good that there's an unsavory tradition going on. It's a disappointing tradition that we have regardless of the area we are computerizing, in which we try to implement systems that improve labour standards with the spirit of time and keep up with the demands of modern times, so that we can do so in due time... Unfortunately, this is another example of a series of similar situations where it is not possible to do so on time, no matter who takes this initiative. And today I agree with the previous speaker that so little on the Sejm, the High House today has an obligation to make up for certain shortcomings that have been made during the implementation of this system. That's the first reservation. And a second reservation. I'm not gonna be original here, either, in what I'm gonna say. This project is not - I will say it gently - the best prepared from the point of view of legislative technology. Chaos, as far as his records are concerned, can be seen at first glance. This, unfortunately, is also something that needs to be emphasized. Nevertheless, I wanted to stress on behalf of the PSL Parliamentary Club that we feel and understand the arguments which have been put forward by the notariat, and the possible consequences, however, of failing to address these shortcomings in terms of the degree of progress in the implementation of the system. Therefore, we will not create as a club here also obstacles in order to be able to adopt this law in an efficient manner and give the possibility to refine this system so that both for those who will serve it, i.e. notaries, and above all for citizens whose cases will be solved through this system, do not create any major problems. This is why we are in favour of directing the project to further work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u467	Thank you very much, sir. That concludes the discussion. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Parliament's draft law amending the Act amending the Civil Procedure Code and certain other laws, the Act amending the Civil Code Act, the Code of Civil Procedure Act and certain other laws, the Tax Administration Act and some other laws contained in print No 312, to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. This concludes the discussion of the agenda items scheduled for 10 March this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. Mrs Bożena Kamińska, Civic Platform Club, absent. Mr Józef Lassota, Civic Platform Club, absent. Mr Dariusz Bąk, club of Law and Justice, absent. Mrs Józef Szczurek-Żelazko, law and justice club, present. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u468	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On March 11 we celebrate the Day of the Sołtys in Poland. Every year this holiday becomes more popular and more appreciated. This is a good opportunity to show respect for all the chiefs not only for the residents, but also for the representatives of the authorities. This is an opportunity to thank them for their hard work and commitment to achieving specific objectives and activities for the development and improvement of the quality of life of local communities. The Chiefs have a very important role to play. As an executive body, they combine the activities of these units with the activities of the municipalities, assist the municipalities in carrying out their tasks, but also organise assistance to residents and work together for a given place of residence. That's, among other things. thanks to the involvement of the chiefs and conscientiously performed duties and care for people, the image of Polish communes is constantly improving, the living conditions improve, the condition of roads improves, sewerage networks are built, street lighting, pavements are created, playgrounds, safe passageways for pedestrians, new bus news. The work of the Chief is not only a privilege, but, above all, a great responsibility. It is people who are involved in the town's affairs that are making efforts to make various investments, and most importantly, they are close to people, close to their problems such as poverty, alcoholism or unemployment. It's a special function of public trust. On the occasion of your holiday, my dear Chiefs, I wish you all the best. In my opinion, as a parliamentarians, your dedication and your work are very important for the development of every local community. I would like not only to draw attention to the role played by the Council of the Polish countryside, but also to express special thanks for good cooperation, commitment and numerous initiatives which translate into the development of the villages and the fulfilment of the needs of their inhabitants. I wish you good health, happiness and all good fortune.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-sejm-13-2.u469	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Waldemar Andzel, the Law and Justice Club. Absent. That concludes our parliamentary statements. I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. On 11 March 2016, by 3 p.m. 9. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 22 min 24]]
