ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u1	I'm opening a sitting. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I would like to appoint Mr Kinga Gajewska-Płochocka, Mr Piotr Łukasz Babiarz, Mr Arthur Sobonia and Mr Krzysztof Truskolas as secretaries of today's proceedings. Piotr Łukasz Babiarz and Artur Soboń will be in the first part of the session. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Krzysztof Truskolas and Artur Soboń. I consider the minutes of the 26th session of the Sejm to be adopted in the absence of objections. The group of Members submitted a draft act on the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. The design is 880. At the meeting of the Convention, objections were raised to the completion of the agenda for the first reading of the draft. This is according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the We will proceed to the vote tomorrow in the voting block. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - amending the Law on Government Departments and certain other laws, - amending certain laws laying down the conditions for carrying out innovative activities, - amending the Social Security Act, - amending the Act on Employment Promotion and Employment Market Institutions and the Act on Pre-retirement Benefits, - ratification of the enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Kazakhstan, of the other part, drawn up at Astana on 21 December 2015. The reports shall include prints 861, 868, 856, 857 and 869 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. The High Sejm has been requested to hear ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and five-minute statements on behalf of the circles in the discussion at first reading of the draft law amending the law on the application for an infringement of the right of the party to investigate the case in preparatory proceedings conducted or supervised by the prosecutor and judicial proceedings without undue delay and certain other laws. The design is 851. The Bureau of the Sejm gave an opinion on the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in the discussion on this item. Since, as I said, the request to hear 10 minutes' statements has been made, we must vote on it. We proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the Sejm Bureau. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the proposal that the Bureau of the Sejm will listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in the discussion on this item, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 346 Members voted. The vote was 216 against - 130, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the offer. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm hear ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and five-minute statements on behalf of the circles in discussions on: - information for the Sejm and the Senate on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union between January and June 2016, - a report on draft resolutions on TTIP and CETA international agreements. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles in a joint discussion in the first readings of the draft laws on the amendment of the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - the Committee on the pursuit of Crime against the Polish Nationals and other laws. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that the Sejm should listen to three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in discussions on the Law on ratification of the enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Kazakhstan. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in discussions on the other items on the agenda. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to inform you that the Seniors' Convention accepted the proposal of the Sejm Bureau to consider at its meeting the current information on social dialogue led by the Minister of Health, which was requested by Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. The agenda items of this meeting will be dealt with in accordance with the order adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm and the Seniors' Convention. Information on this matter, as well as the list of laws that the Senate adopted without amendments, are available in the Sejm Information System. Before reading the messages, you made formal requests to the Members. Mrs Joanna Mucha, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I declare a formal application pursuant to Article. Paragraph 184. 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. Mr. Marshal, women's demonstrations took place yesterday throughout Poland. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: 8 years old!]] [[Voices from the room: 8 years!]] Tens of thousands of women have been protesting against what you want to bring in against the hell of the women you're cooking for them. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] They protested young and older women in defense of their daughters, their grandchildren. [[The unborn children.]] They protested men in defense of their wives, their partners, as well as their children. [[Your kids?]] Ladies and gentlemen, you are increasingly becoming a party that represents zygote and embryos, not half of society. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] Warren Buffett once said famous words... [[And who's that?]] If you screwed up, the best thing you can do is stop digging. Today we're giving you a chance to stop digging in. [[Voice from the room: 8 years!]] Vote at this meeting our resolution, which defends the compromise, which is the only way out of the current situation. [[Applause]] This will allow you not to start an ideological war in Poland. [[You're doing it right now.]] I want to remind you: embryos and zygotes do not vote, and women also your government will overthrow women in Poland. [[Applause]] [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Product of fertilization!]] [[Voice from the O.R.: Right to fertilize...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, the Member has come forward without drawing up a formal proposal. [[Voice from the room: What do you mean?]] [[Voice from the room: You should have listened!]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, without making a formal request, and I would like to remind you... [[That the government will knock women down.]] Ma'am, please step out of the podium. I repeat, Member, step out of the podium. [[Voice from the O.R.: Call the police immediately.]] [[Mr. Marshal, I just want to say...]] I should like to warn you, Madam President, that I will have to proceed to a procedure which shows that you are preventing me from taking part in the proceedings. [[Don't exaggerate.]] I would like to inform the High House that the formal proposals - this is Article. Paragraph 184. 2 - may relate only to matters on the agenda and to the proceedings of the sitting, so this is not a formal proposal. [[And the addition of order?]] [[But the request to extend order!]] [[What about supplementing the agenda?]] Even if it were to be submitted in the form of a request for a break and a convent of the Senior Convention, it would also not be a formal request. Therefore, all your Members who have come forward with formal proposals, please forward here to me [[Joy in the Chamber]] in front of the speaker, to present to me what this request concerns. [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Citizens' Platform chant: Cenzura! Censor! Censor!]] And for what purpose? Good. Mrs Monika Wielichowska, a formal request for a break. [[But you know what she's trying to say.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I submit a formal request for a break and clarification by the Prime Minister of the Government, a woman, contemptible statements of Minister Waszczykowski... [[Bravo!]] ...who yesterday and today to tens of thousands of Poles, [[Applause]] to tens of thousands of women in Poland, cities and towns, said that the black protest was a joke that on black Monday women play. We demand answers to questions, Prime Minister. Does the PiS have a line of contempt for women? Is there a limit to vulgarity in the PiS? On behalf of very aware of our rights, strong, solidarity and united women from the black protest, on Black Monday, we demand explanations and answers. What consequences will the Prime Minister have for such outrageous statements? Unless Minister Waszczykowski, who is present in this Chamber, will be brave enough and as heroic as yesterday were women, Polish women all over Poland, and will confess to the mistake, and will say "I'm sorry." [[I'm sorry I'm so weak.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u5	And here I must tell you that yes, the first part of the statement... [[She was formal.]] [[And the other was a supplement.]] [[And a reason.]] ...is a formal request for a break, and if you had finished that, it would have been a formal request for a break. [[Don't you like the justification?]] On the other hand, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, if you have still used the conjunction here and justified it in this way, I must kindly say that this justification does not refer to the agenda of this sitting of the Sejm, and I should therefore consider that this is not a formal proposal which concerns the agenda. [[But 52% of the citizens!]] Mr Krzysztof Brejza, Civic Platform Club. But I ask you, Mr... Please come to me and tell me what the proposal is about, what is the proposal. [[On what grounds?]] What is the formal conclusion? [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Citizens' Platform chant: Cenzura! Censor! Censor!]] One moment, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u6	Mr. Marshal, all requests concern... [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u7	Don't bother me, because I'm gonna have to start reprimanding those who are screaming. [[Don't be embarrassed.]] Please, Mr Krzysztof Brejza, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u8	Mr. Marshal! In accordance with Article 2, the following paragraph is added: 184 of the Rules of Procedure shall be formally requested, as in the previous case, on the agenda of the sitting, but this shall be a request for the adjournment of the sitting until tomorrow and for the preparation of information by the Minister of the Special Service Coordinator and the Minister of Justice on the surveillance of the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] Yesterday, when thousands of women fought for their fundamental rights on the streets of Poland, to ensure that Poland did not move towards Somalia, Uganda, Yemen, the state probably made a roll-out on TVP Info and immediately before these protests, television informed about the leak of e-mails of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. This is a strange situation which may indicate that services are used to spy on Polish judges. [[Applause]] From what source did the television have the content of the private correspondence of the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal? [[Have you heard of investigative journalists?]] Does this relate to the operational actions taken against the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal? Does this have to do with the fact that Katowice is under investigation, the President of the Constitutional Tribunal is under investigation? Tell me straight, don't be afraid to answer the Sejm. [[How's Daddy?]] Do you take surveillance of judges, independent judges? We demand this information on the justice committee, which is due tomorrow. We demand your honesty, whether you play Polish public opinion by e-mails. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u9	In this case, you are asking for the floor of Minister Mariusz Kaminski. [[His place is in prison, not in the podium.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I want to protest strongly against the insinuations that have taken place... [[Yes, sir.]] ...just now in Mr Brejza's statement. No more lies, no more insinuations. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the courtroom: Don't pardon me anymore.]] Special forces shall carry out their statutory tasks. As regards the case of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, e-mail leakage, etc., special forces are not dealing with these cases. They have their statutory tasks and these tasks are carried out. And enough of the insinuations, enough of the vile lies. [[Where are these e-mails coming from?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u11	Good. This is a formal proposal, yes, and I will put it to the vote immediately. But still Mr Meysztowicz, right? There you go. [[Oh, Jesus, another one.]] Only, sir, in what... [[Exactly.]] There you go. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Within the framework of the Article. 184 requesting a recess. This is the end. I address Minister Waszczykowski. I think a ten-minute break like this would be good for you to prepare an apology for all the women you insulted yesterday. It was unworthy, what you did last night. [[Applause]] Just unworthy not only of the Foreign Minister, it was unworthy of a man. As a man, I demand an apology from you today. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Call him to the ground.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u13	Good. Ladies and gentlemen, these two applications for deferral and interruption, in fact, the request for deferral consumes the request for interruption, we will take it as one. Then we'll vote him out. I'll use the procedural formula here. A formal request has been made for an adjournment, and I understand that by tomorrow at noon. 9. I will put this request to adjourn, I am sorry, I will put this request to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of ordering a recess, or adjournment, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 355 Members voted. 136 voted against - 214, 5 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u14	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 11.15, - Poselska etiquette - hour. 11.30, - Infrastructure - hour 11.30, - Extraordinary for changes in codification - hour. 11.30, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 12, - Health-- hour. 12, - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 13, - Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs - hour. 13, - Extraordinary deregulation - hour. 13, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 13.30, - National Defense at 5 p.m. 14, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 14, - Foreign Affairs - hour 16, - National Defense at 5 p.m. 17, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 17, - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 19. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Communication on the meetings of the teams. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: public health - hour 11, - Parliamentary Group for: County Hospitals - hour 13.30, - Parliamentary Group for: Oncology - hour 2.30 p.m., - Parliamentary Animal Friends Team - h.m. 16, - Parliamentary Group for: Multiple sclerosis - hour 4:30 p.m., - Parliamentary Group for: privatised hospitals - hour 18, - Parliamentary Support Team of Entrepreneurs Damaged in Employee Outsourcing by the authorities of the state administration of the Republic of Poland and Wołomin Wołomin - hour. 18.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u15	Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: Report of the National Defence Committee on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the Military Property Agency (prints No. 841 and 866). I ask Mr Wojciech Buczak to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u16	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present a report from the National Defence Committee on the Government's draft law amending the Military Property Agency Act, print No 841. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] The Parliament held its 26th meeting on 22 September this year. pursuant to Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm referred the above draft law to the Committee on National Defence for consideration. The National Defence Commission after considering this draft law at its meeting on 22 September this year. asks the Sejm to adopt a draft law with amendments, which are primarily legislative, editorial and linguistic corrections. A single text is attached to the committee's report. During the committee's work, this single text was adopted. We ask that the Sejm adopt the attached act. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u17	There you go. I would like to inform you that in the discussion on this item, we will hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Rafał Weber, Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u18	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! By representing the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, I will present our position towards the government's draft law amending the Act on the Military Property Agency, print No 841, and the report of the National Defence Committee, which is the result of the meeting of the Commission on 22 September this year, print No 866. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports this government submission, recognising that the proposed changes will contribute to the improvement of the functioning of the Military Property Agency and to the wider exploitation of the Agency's potential by increasing the capacity to provide services to or supervised by the national defence minister's organisational units. Here it should be mentioned that now on the basis of the article. 53 of the Military Property Agency Act, the Agency may provide services only and exclusively to the Minister of National Defence, i.e. this provision excludes the provision of such services to military units. The amendments to the draft law aim to ensure that the Agency and its subsidiaries can provide specialised services related, for example, to critical infrastructure. Such a solution ensures the safety of the provision of sensitive services, e.g. construction of ammunition warehouses or other elements of military infrastructure. We therefore understand the government's intention to carry out such important tasks as are carried out by an entity under the full control of the Minister of National Defence. Another important element of the amendment to this Act is the proposal for solutions that will improve the functioning of the Agency: the election of the president and deputy president of the Military Property Agency will take place on the same basis as in other executive agencies, e.g. Agricultural Real Estate Agency or Agricultural Market Agency. The proposed provisions provide that the President of the Military Property Agency will appoint and dismiss the President of the Council of Ministers at the request of the Minister for National Defence. It is worth mentioning that the amendment of the contested law gives the opportunity, on the basis of a decision of the Minister of National Defence or the Minister responsible for Home Affairs, to transfer or dispose of military equipment or dual-use items and arms, as well as to dispose of military equipment or dual-use items and of strategic importance for the maintenance of international peace and security, which are in the hands of organisational units subordinate to the Minister of National Defence or the Minister competent for Home Affairs. The proposed amendments are designed to reduce the time involved in deciding whether to transfer or dispose of military equipment or dual-use items free of charge. Previous practice in this area indicates that negotiation processes related to the conclusion of international agreements are too time-consuming and that the situation sometimes requires immediate action. The maintenance of decision-making procedures and processes may lead to the loss of the ability of foreign entities to dispose of military equipment or dual-use items and sometimes to take over a given contract or market. In conclusion, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, recognising the proposed changes as justified, supports the government's submission together with legislative amendments which were voted on at the committee meeting. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u19	Thank you very much, sir. I will ask Mr Sławomir Nitras to speak. I also have a request for you. In order for the Member to be able to present his position easily, please either turn the conversation down or conduct it in the clowns of the Sejm. Thank you very much. And I ask the Member to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u20	Thank you, Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Parliamentary Majority! We are really discussing a project within two weeks that completely overturns the functioning of an institution that is part of public administration, an institution that I am not saying was working perfectly, I am not saying that there was no case of an incompetent official there - I do not know, but this could of course have happened - but there were certain criteria in this institution, certain rules were in place. Selection rules were in place, competitions were in force, criteria were in force. You had to show your resume, you had to finish some school, appropriate of course, not some one, you had to have elementary competences. You're trying to eliminate these requirements, and that's what happens when you have to explain yourself. It can't be like this. It cannot be argued to us that, on the one hand, the Prime Minister is fighting with pathologists, dismissing Mr Misiewicz under the cover of the night, spends all night fighting for him not to perform the proper functions in the PGZ, and on the same day, you are changing the law, which in the next state institution offers the same possibilities. You're destroying our country. Competitions for positions in public administration are one of the most important elements of recruitment. The criteria of competence are important, gentlemen, they are important. This will turn against you against the state. You're trying to create a state administration a little bit like martial law. You are trying to prove to us that in the institutions subordinate to Minister Macierewicz there can be no rule of law, there can be no criteria, because Minister Macierewicz... because there is a state of siege. There's no state of siege. If there is a state of siege of the Polish army, institutions associated with the army, it is a state of siege by Macierewicz and his people. [[Applause]] And that's what these criteria are for, for there to be some kind of defense mechanism so that we can defend ourselves against Macierewicz. [[Minister.]] The most hypocritical argument, the most hypocritical argument... [[Minister.]] Unfortunately, Minister Macierewicz - I speak from this speaker - unfortunately Minister Macierewicz, because he is irresponsible and most Poles do not want him. The Sovereign doesn't want him as Minister. Ask the normal Poles. [[Applause]] And the last sentence. This is the most hypocritical, most hypocritical saying that there are different criteria in the military than in other institutions. It's a fear that in a moment you'll be choosing officers without any criteria... [[You guys would've given a horse to the minister.]] ...no school, at your discretion. First he worked at the KRUS, and now he's going to be an officer. That's what we're afraid of, and that's what you're giving us. Remembrance, gentlemen, remembrance! [[Applause]] [[A horse to the minister!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u21	The second part of the speech will be delivered by Paweł Suski. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u22	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a continuation of the position of the Civic Platform Club on the amendment of the Military Property Agency Act. This bill is a new loot of Law and Justice. [[Scalp.]] It is a situation in which behind the smoke screen so-called. You expect a good change to storm the state's assets. This storm's going on. As my previous speaker said, this is a state of siege. And we actually have a smoke screen, because I'm going to talk about another aspect of this amendment, which is to allow for a gentle, more free disposal of sensitive property. I'm thinking about weapons being removed from the position of the Armed Forces' needs, as well as explosives. You have removed the security that allowed for trade between the countries that are parties to the agreements concluded between the agency represented by the Minister and the services and the armed forces of those States, which are parties to the agreements, I stress. That's what you've crossed out, giving us a chance to move weapons freely. I would like to ask: Minister, what guarantees do you give that this weapon will not be in irresponsible hands? Please do not explain to me that actually other laws, other laws say that there must be a licensed entity, etc. It's not enough because this entity is going to be a middleman. Give me a guarantee that our nationalist or neo-fascist groups will not be parties to such an amendment. This is an absolutely unacceptable amendment. There is no easy way to talk about this piece of legislation. This is an absolute attack not only on positions - also [[♪ The bell ♪]] Gives us a chance to move our weapons freely. [[For the equipment.]] Dear Marshal! The Civic Platform Club therefore makes a far-reaching proposal to reject this project at second reading and a set of amendments deleting these changes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[A horse with a row of people who can understand that.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u23	Thank you very much. I ask Mr Szramka to speak on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u24	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, please. In the explanatory memorandum of the bill, we can read that the analysis of the functioning of the Military Property Agency has shown that there are many problems that need to be solved by statutory changes. It is very interesting to recognise that the current problem is how to appoint the President of the AMW and its deputies. The Government intends to enable the President of the Council of Ministers, at the request of the Minister for National Defence, to appoint and dismiss the President and thus to resign from recruitment in an open and competitive competition. In addition, in accordance with the wording of the draft Act, the Vice-President of the Agency will be appointed and cancelled by the Minister of Defence. As if this were not enough, the amendment of the current law provides for the Minister of Defence to be given the national competence to determine the remuneration not only to the President of the Agency and its alternates, but also to the President and to the other members of the Supervisory Board. If the chimney bill goes down, the forks will be gone, fixing the salary. Consequently, these salaries can be determined in any way possible and will be in accordance with the Act. Therefore, the entire authority over the Military Property Agency will rest in the hands of the Minister of Defence. As we go on, we read that the proposed lifting of the mouth. Article 2 28 aims at establishing a single annual financial plan within the Agency, thereby eliminating the financial autonomy of the directors of the regional branches of the agencies. This record clearly indicates a change in direction towards centralisation - instead of the current decentralisation - the functioning and level of decision-making of the various regional departments of the AMW. In conclusion, the most important changes that the government intends to make in relation to the current Military Property Agency Act, it should be clearly pointed out that the change in the current democratic principles of the entity's operation in favour of the authoritarian decisions of the Minister of Defence cannot and probably will not produce positive results. For future agency and supervisory staff, this will be a clear signal that competence, knowledge and skills are not as important as party membership. Unfortunately, we will be dealing with a departure from democratic principles for the well-known partyocracy of the last 25 years. In view of the above, Kukiz15 will not be able to vote otherwise than against this project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u25	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Radosław Lubczyk on behalf of the Modern Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u26	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As is well known, it is impossible to deceive the queen of the teachings of mathematics for the world. Therefore, everyone present in this Chamber must be aware that the same draft law on the Military Property Agency will be put to the vote and adopted only because the majority have representatives of the Law and Justice Club. The very fact that this project was considered at a committee meeting was only demonstrational. We all know what its composition looks like. After all, half of its 32 members belong to the ruling party. It was not possible for the form of the report to be different from today's report. This law, I repeat, allows the introduction into the ranks of the subsidiary of the State Treasury of subsequent Misiewiczs, people who without qualifications will be able to manage powerful financial and factual resources. The modern one once again speaks decisively not to the guys, nepotism, lack of transparency and understatement of the standard during the selection of persons for executive positions in companies dependent on the State Treasury. We cannot allow this to happen in our country. Therefore, now from this place, from this speaker I would like to remind you of our share of the "Miesiewicze" action. It's another yellow card for the PiS. You can be sure that every person will be tested and the truth will come out sooner or later, and this country will have to explain to the public why incompetent people run such an agency. Perhaps you will find them at: www.miesiecznicze. en on the list of people associated with the PiS structures. The Modern Posel Club disagrees with the adoption of the bill in this wording and requests that it be rejected in its entirety so that any worrying issues are resolved accordingly, in line with the standards of the European democratic country in the 21st century. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u27	Thank you very much. I ask Mr Paul to speak on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u28	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Seym! Polish People's Party will be against this law... [[You can get off the stand now.]] ...because it seems to us that this is a new opening for a new hand for the Misiewiczs. I've already come from this tribune before, at first reading, I said it seemed to be so transparent, at least in the election campaign. Law and Justice emphasized nepotism, emphasized guys. Now what do we got? A situation similar, or even - to the power of the Entej: Bear, Pisewicze, guyhood, nepotism. [[PSL shouldn't talk about it.]] My question is, is the Minister of Defense building a new empire? Is this empire also needed for the institution that the Sejm is currently working on? Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The Polish People's Party will be against this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u29	Thank you very much. Six persons were included in the list of Members who were included in the question. Anybody else want to ask you a question? In this situation, I'm closing the list. He begins with a question by Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, a club called Law and Justice. Time, two minutes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u30	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In the explanatory memorandum of the draft law, the purpose of this regulation is to remove interpretation doubts, including those relevant to the functioning of the Agency, as regards the factual characteristics of the directors of regional branches and to indicate their catalogue of competences. I would therefore ask you to indicate what interpretation doubts we will avoid, which occurred earlier and at the same time concerned the catalogue of competence of the directors of the regional branches of the agencies. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u31	Thank you very much. Another question, Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u32	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! This law is primarily the elimination of competition procedures, which have so far been in force in the field of personnel decisions concerning agencies. I would like to remind you that on this speaker a few months ago the Minister of the Treasury stood up and said that the guarantee of proper supervision of the agendas, state companies is primarily the origin of these people, trust in these people. Today there is no longer a minister who spoke of this trust. There were people left he probably trusted. We're probably gonna have to cancel these people today. This is for frequent changes: every 2, 3 months or every 5 months changes in companies of the State Treasury. What this has to do with the functioning of these entities, you can assess for yourself. The competitions, I agree, weren't the best method, but they were the method that led to the fulfilment of the minimum competence. These were also procedures which, from your point of view, could be very beneficial. I want to give you some advice here. If a person came to you who aspired to a particular position and had no competence, you could always say to her: "Man, you are a few years old, finish your studies, gain experience, come, we will consider your candidacy. Today you simply do not belong to this position, and the fact that you have the legitimacy of law and justice or that you are a sympathizer of one party or another is not the right recommendation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u33	Thank you very much. Mrs Elisabeth Stępień, the Modern Club, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u34	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! You're talking about how you want to keep order. So I'm gonna ask, what are you gonna do tonight? You're going to talk about the abuse of power by the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber in the seat seat, the failure to apply the rules of the contest procedure. What are you doing? You're rejecting the whole contest procedure just to make a field and a place for your Misiewicz. Is that what this is about? The second question is, what are you going to do with the agency's assets? Will it go to social services or to equip the army? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u35	Another question, Mr Michał Jach, club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u36	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, here the discussion goes towards completely incomprehensible problems for me. I'm not surprised if that's for example. Mr Nitras says that he does not know the subject, because he was neither a member of the National Defence Parliamentary Committee nor was he in the process of establishing a new law on the Military Property Agency last year. But I am surprised by Mr Suski, who led the amendment of the law that we supported last year. This bill was being processed at an extra-express rate, because there was such a requirement, it was necessary to merge two agencies. It was introduced there, among others. the provision concerning the extension of trading opportunities for military equipment or dual-use equipment. We had doubts about this, because there was no clear rule of trade for these goods. And this is where it comes from... And this is one of the main principles, one of the objectives of the amendment of this law. On the other hand, I would like to ask whether these ladies and gentlemen who are so critical of the change in the procedure for the appointment of the President of the Military Property Agency... does any of them know what the procedure for the appointment of the President of the Military Property Agency is so far - a procedure which is still written in the Act and will be amended. If not, I'm referring it to the bill. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This bill doesn't have much to do with the rules you're talking about. Minister, I would very much like to ask you to answer the question: What is the main purpose of amending this law, as well as the procedure for the appointment of the new President of the Military Property Agency so far? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u37	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Wojciech Skurkiewicz, the Law and Justice Club. I see you volunteered. Finally, after the questions, Mr President, I will give you the floor to correct them. [[Thank you.]] And I ask you to ask me another question. But before you ask that question, sir... I was asked to greet my students from the 1st High School in Turku. [[Applause]] It's on the right. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Enjoy your visit to the Sejm and enjoy the experience of the Sejm. Now, sir, I ask you to ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u38	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Question. If we are talking about the contest procedure under the new law on the Military Property Agency, which has only been in force since last year, I will remind you of those competitions which the Civic Platform invented. The competitions - here an eloquent stamp. Ladies and gentlemen of the Minister, is it true that the competition procedure proposed in the last year's amendment or amendment of the Act on the Military Property Agency provides that not the best candidate selected in this procedure is appointed President of the Military Property Agency, only the competition committee indicates how many? Three so the minister can choose the one who's going to be president of the Military Property Agency. And you think that this competition procedure is the best, transparent, transparent, etc. Three. Not the best three. [[Then correct this procedure.]] [[Minister Macierewicz trumps everyone.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is why we want to end fiction, we want to end the eight-year regime of the Civic Platform, we want to end the fiction of your governments. If gentlemen, my predecessors from the Platform, referred to issues concerning what is happening in the Ministry of National Defence under the rule of Law and Justice and Minister Antoni Macierewicz, I would like to recall just one episode from the times of your incompetent governments, when Mr Bogdan Klich, a psychiatrist from a military hospital somewhere outside Krakow, was the Minister of National Defence. A very valuable initiative - the Institute of Strategic Studies, which he managed. B, in the years 2008 and 2013... [[What's your wife doing?]] ...from Treasury companies The Institute of Strategic Studies received, attention, 5800 thousand. zł co-financing - money which could be used by this institution, which Minister Klich assumed, which is now managed by his wife, and in which Minister Klich... [[What's your wife doing?]] ...he played the first violin. [[♪ The bell ♪]] as a speaker, giving out various kinds of points. So that if you throw anything in our backyard, hit your breasts very hard - 5700 thousand. For four years. [[Game in the hall, applause]] [[Voice from the room: And he could have taken 20.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u39	Thank you very much, sir. Of course, I greet the guests on the other side of the balcony and wish them, like the high school students, a pleasant experience of a trip to the Sejm. [[Mr President, and the husband of the Prime Minister is 30 million.]] And now... Mrs... [[Rich.]] And now I ask Małgorzata Płępek from the Civic Platform Club to speak and ask another question. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[What about your wife?]] [[Get your shit together.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u40	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Putting high positions in the Military Property Agency without competitions is another gateway for Misiewicz. In the television program.Black and white journalists have shown some of this phenomenon, which at the moment has a huge scale in our country. Law and Justice supporters are placed on lucrative stools. It can be said that it was for them that the assumptions of a good change were prepared, because that is actually what the PiS governments are for them. This year, from the sale of land property and premises, the Military Property Agency wants to obtain PLN 300 million. At the turn of November and December, one of the biggest offers of this year's agency - for sale of real estate in Łódź will be launched. The starting price is over PLN 40 million. Next year an even larger transaction is planned - the sale of 350 ha of military property in Oleśnica. I have a question: Is the solution whereby the management of such assets will be entrusted to those whose qualifications will not be verified by any competition, certainly a good change? I'm sure it's a good change in PiS, right? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[We'll give Klich back.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u41	Thank you very much. Another question, Mr Paweł Bejda, a club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u42	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister. The fact that this bill will be pushed, it's obvious, you have the majority of the Seym. On the other hand, Minister, please answer: What criteria will apply when hiring presidents, vice-presidents, directors, or will the party membership of Law and Justice also be taken into account, or are there other criteria that will make this person, and not another person employed as president, vice-president or branch director? Please answer me. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u43	Thank you very much. Mr Czesław Mroczek, Civic Platform Club. Here's another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u44	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! It is known that the essence of this law, this change, is the abolition of free, competitive competitions. And the fact that you will do this is obvious, as Mr Beida has just said. It is wondering why a few serious parliamentarians are coming out on this platform and trying to convince us that competitions are a bad thing. You'll be ashamed of it, gentlemen, for years, that you've done such a thing. Because you can violate the law, you can do the wrong thing, but you can boast about doing the wrong thing, it's just a dramatic thing. You ridicule the rules of the state in many areas and then introduce a world without rules, the world after being considered, the world of Misiewicz, guys. At the moment we have a discussion in Poland about how you want to correct this evil, which your president noticed. Besides, your President Jarosław Kaczyński noticed this evil because he seems to have noticed his own friends on supervisory boards, on boards of various companies. Today you want to fix this evil by doing some kind of audit, sending CBA. You make such an impression in Poland that Jarosław Kaczyński noticed evil in the ranks of PiS, he is just, he will burn evil with hot iron. Meanwhile, at the same time as you create this fiction in Poland, in this act you try to do the same. You're putting up with all the rules. I have no question today for Deputy Minister Grabski of the Ministry of National Defence, because what can he say today, when is the will and decision of Jarosław Kaczyński and the government? Why, at the same time that you're showing this fiction to Poles that you're going to fix that you're going to introduce rules, dozens, maybe even a few hundred jobs at the Military Property Agency, you're going to release them, you're going to end the competitions, [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're gonna do a paycheck on your guard, from under a big finger? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u45	Thank you very much. And the last question will be asked by Mr Piotr Cieślinski, also by the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u46	Dear Marshal! Minister! In the election campaign, you promised the public that one of the first laws you will adopt would regulate the rules of competitions open to positions in the Treasury companies. You started a good change by systematically ripping down the rules of qualifications and competitions in the civil service, the prosecution, the military and the police. Is what you are proposing today exactly the fulfillment of your electoral promise? Isn't the attempt to take over the state again at a time when public opinion learns about nepotism in your issue on an unprecedented scale, an expression of disgusting cynicism? Is it still not enough for you to use the Bear and the Pissing Bear? Do you want to tell Poles that the dark people will also buy this? I can assure you he won't buy it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u47	Thank you very much. To correct Mr Sławomir Nitras, the Civic Platform Club. Two minutes, sir. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u48	Thank you, Marshal. Mr President, in the procedure of correcting, because you have indeed misunderstood or misunderstood, it is difficult for me to assess this. You accused me of two things. The first is that when the decision was made on this issue, when you made your decision on this issue, I wasn't there. It's true. There was no one. There was only you and Minister Macierewicz. And it's up to you to decide. Just you guys. You're gonna be... Before the story, before the Polish soldiers, also the soldiers in Stargard, you will be responsible for these decisions. They'll never forgive you for building a country in which... [[Increase the army, increase the expenditure on the army.]] ... The assistant from the pharmacy drills Polish soldiers. Polish soldiers will never forgive you for the assistant - please do not disturb me - the assistant from the pharmacy drills... [[Increase money for the army, increase investment.]] ...Polish soldiers. They won't forgive you, and neither will your colleagues. You also question my competence in this matter, wrongly, because I know it very well. 'Cause I lived in a country like you guys build. It was called the PRL, and the minister's name was Florian Siwicki. And today you are walking the same marching step. You and Minister Macierewicz follow the same marching step that was followed by Minister Florian Siwicki. Only this is not a step of a democratic state, because in the army in a democratic country, Members, Mr President, there are procedures in place first and foremost. Procedures. Let me repeat: procedures, because procedures depend on the lives of soldiers, the lives of partners. And you bring the army to an institution in which a deranged superior is bound. These are not procedures, this is not a democratic state. And that's what we're protesting. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Your marshal, in corrigendum mode.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u49	Mr Jach, right? You're welcome, in terms of corrigendum. [[The corrigendum is what I reserve.]] No, I'm not giving anyone another voice. The Member may refer to this point, because you have raised quite a lot of issues, so please, two minutes, but this is the end of the corrigendum. [[I always accept your Marshal's decisions without discussion.]] I'm very happy for you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u50	Thank you, Marshal. High Izbo! In corrigendum mode, I'll only say one thing. At the moment, ladies and gentlemen, Minister Kownacki presents the effects of competent managers selected and designated by the Government of the Civic Platform and PSL to Polish Armed Group companies. I recommend this of you... [[To your place! To your place!]] ...to participate in today's debate so that you can get acquainted with this data. They were really very special managers. Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u51	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence, Mr Bartłomiej Grabski. I ask you, Minister, to answer the questions you have asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u52	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Maybe I should start by referring to Mr Nitras's statement. I think... [[Answer me, these are questions. Please answer the questions, not address them.]] Okay, one thing. I would like to say that the abuse of such statements here, that the Minister of National Defence, Mr Antoni Macierewicz, goes on the road of Florian Siwicki... [[But your Marshal, the Minister is not from judging Members!]] ...is a reprehensible statement and should...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u53	I ask you to remain calm. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of National Defence Bartłomiej Grabski: I would like to say one more thing, sir, that in your governments, under the rule of the Civic Platform... [[This isn't an army, your powers don't reach here to straighten me out.]] Mr President, I would very much like to ask you to allow the Ministry's representative to respond, and I would ask you to remain calm. Minister, you're welcome. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of National Defence Bartłomiej Grabski: As regards the clarification of the provisions concerning the appointment of Regional Directors of the Military Property Agency, I would like to add that, when it comes to Regional Branch Directors, this concerns situations where they appear in labour courts and now the mandate for them will be clear, it will be the result of the Military Property Agency Act. As far as competitions are concerned, it might be worth mentioning the situation that took place under the rule of the Civic Platform. So-called. competitive recruitments for positions in military agencies such as the Military Property Agency and the Military Housing Agency, under the Civic Platform, in many cases proved to be fictional. The best example of these pathologies is the competition for the position of director of the regional branch in Krakow, it is the Military Property Agency, as well as the Military Housing Agency. [[But that's not in this bill.]] The first one was won by a political scientist, currently a member of the Board of the National Civic Platform, while the winner of the second one... [[But give me your name.]] ...is also a political scientist, Vice-President of the Civic Platform in Cracow since 2006. This case was described in detail in 2009. [[You're not telling the truth.]] ...and was the subject of an interpellation by Mr Opioła. As regards the positions of these Regional Branch Directors, these were the issues that Mr Bogdan Klich commissioned from the Minister for National Defence. The competitions were repeated and again won by both politicians, members of the Civic Platform, and their hard-earned jobs, despite the evident lack of qualifications, were held for 6 years... [[You're not qualified either.]] ...from 2009 to 2015 In addition, the question should be addressed to you... [[You're supposed to answer questions, not ask questions to us.]] ...why in the period 2014 to 2015, for more than 20 months, no competitions were held for the positions of the President of the Military Property Agency. We maintain our position that competitions in the case of the Military Property Agency are not the best solution and the practice so far indicates that such solutions, whether in the case of agricultural agencies such as Agricultural Property Agency or Agricultural Market Agency... These presidents and vice presidents are appointed on a different basis. The proposed provisions provide that the President of the AMW will be appointed by the President of the Council of Ministers at the request of the Minister of Defence. The same applies to vice-presidents who will be appointed by the Minister of National Defence. The fact that the provision that was in the previous Act of 2015, art. 123, allows the Minister of National Defence without a competition for a period of 3 years to appoint the President and Vice-Presidents of the Agency. As regards the question, Madam President, I would just like to add that the detailed arrangements and regulations concerning revenues from the sale of real estate or licensed property are being funded by the Armed Forces modernisation fund. As regards Mr Skurkiewicz and his questions, I would like to agree with the statement that the procedure for the election of the Minister for National Defence of one of the three candidates presented by the competition committee is a kind of wrong solution, which we believe should be amended. [[So it's kind of like that.]] And I think that's it. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. Mr Wojciech Buczak asked for the floor. You're welcome. You're quitting, aren't you? Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment and the motion for rejection were tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on National Defence in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. That is where we concluded this item. Let's move on to the next one. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: Report of the Administrative and Internal Affairs Committee on the draft parliamentary law amending the Law on the departments of government administration and certain other laws (prints No 750 and 861). I would like to ask Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u54	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Report of the Administrative and Internal Affairs Commission on the draft law amending the Law on the departments of government administration and certain other laws (print No 750). The Sejm at its 24th meeting on 5 September 2016 pursuant to Article 5 of the Rules of Procedure. 39 (1) (a) 2 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, addressed the above draft law to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. The Committee on Administration and Home Affairs examined the draft at two meetings, 14 and 21 September, and asks the Sejm to approve the attached draft law. The Commission shall, in accordance with Article. Article 43 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall, at the request of the applicant, submit the following request from a minority: In Article 7, point 3 is replaced by the following: Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 is replaced by the following: "1. Representatives of the Treasury in the supervisory boards of the companies referred to in Article. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 One, three, are the persons designated by the Minister responsible for maritime affairs.' Mr Raniewicz was authorised by a minority who made this request. The Committee on Administration and Home Affairs for the purpose of considering a draft law amending the Law on the departments of government administration and some other laws - as I said earlier - held two meetings. A number of amendments were adopted in the course of the work, with the vast majority being clear and legislative. They most often referred to the technical means of making changes, as well as the location of the amended rules. In several cases, the amendments were also intended to supplement the provisions authorising guidance on the content of the implementing act. An amendment was adopted to change the participation of the Minister responsible for inland waterway transport in the adoption of the Regulation pursuant to Article. 49 Dangerous Goods Transport Act. As a result of the amendments adopted, amendments to the Law on the Agency for the Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture and the Law on the Principles for the Financing of Science were waived. Also as a result of the amendment adopted, the article was supplemented. 19 Act on ports and marinas for a provision according to which the representatives of the municipalities in the supervisory boards of companies: the Management Board of the Maritime Port of Gdansk SA, the Management Board of the Maritime Port of Gdynia SA and the Management Board of Maritime Ports of Szczecin and Świnoujście SA shall not constitute more than 1/5 of the composition of the board if the municipalities have not taken up shares representing at least 10% of the shares the total share capital of the company concerned, each municipality should have at least one representative on the supervisory board of the relevant company regardless of the size of the shares. On the other hand, no amendment was adopted to limit the changes to the article. 19 Law on ports and marinas only to point 1, i.e. the amendment of minorities, which I presented earlier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u55	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. And I will ask Mr Sylvester Tulayev to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u56	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the report of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the draft law amending the Law on the departments of government administration and certain other laws, print No 861. The Parliamentary draft law amending the Law on the departments of government administration and certain other laws concerns the creation of ministers competent for maritime, fisheries and inland navigation legal instruments necessary for the proper performance of the tasks entrusted to them. The state policy on these three divisions requires a deep reconstruction, and on many issues of reconstruction - reconstruction of the Polish shipbuilding industry, reconstruction of the Polish shipping market and the Polish inland fleet, as well as the development of a new fisheries development strategy. A number of amendments were adopted during the drafting of the Act in the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. The vast majority of them were purely legislative, it was simply a different way of making changes, but also a substantive one, among others. The aim was to supplement the guidelines in accordance with constitutional requirements. In the course of the work in committee at first reading, the article was deleted. 20 and Article 20 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 37, on the delegation of part of the competence to oversee a certain section of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. The applicants, in consultation with the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, agreed to simply abandon this transfer and to leave the ARiMR unchanged. Article 1 is also deleted. 21 amending the Law on the Principles for the Financing of Science. Here, in turn, the issue concerned the exclusion of part of the competence from the area of the Minister for Science in the field of research. As previously, the consultation of the applicants with the ministries led to conclusions, however, in order to leave these regulations unchanged, hence the deletion of Article. 21. This law on amending the Law on Government Administrations is another step towards strengthening the state's policy to promote the development of maritime economy, the development of shipyards, ports, fishing and inland waterway transport, which can become a flywheel of the Polish economy. High Izbo! The Ministry of Maritime Affairs, created in the times of Law and Justice in 2005-2007, was unfortunately abolished by the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party, and unfortunately its achievements were largely wasted. Maritime affairs, inland waterway transport have been dispersed between the ministries of infrastructure, treasure, economy, environmental protection and many others, which have not been treated as it should have been, have not been treated with the utmost care. Today we see that the rebuilt Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping has proved successful, we see that it is successful. However, additional tools must be provided to ensure that these important issues are developed as soon as possible for our economy. Therefore, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice requests that the Act amending the Government Departments Act and certain other laws from print No 861 be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u57	Thank you very much, sir. And to make a statement on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I would like to ask Mr Tadeusz Azievicz. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u58	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the Administrative and Internal Affairs Committee on the draft law amending the Law on the Departments of Government and some other laws. High Izbo! As I mentioned in the first reading, the project creates an instrument for the policy of returning to the Ministry Poland, to the ungrateful and archaic tradition of the Polish People's Republic of Poland's unity. I would like to remind you that as a result of the majority decision, our ports were institutionally separated from the land facilities in the form of roads and railway lines and were in one resort together with the shipbuilding industry. This happened during the dynamic development of intermodal transport, when the world rather integrates the management of this type of infrastructure. I don't really know what shipyards and ports have in common except that they're located by the sea. It's kind of like one ministry to combine surveillance over highways and car factories. High Seym! This project provides the Minister for Maritime and Inland Navigation with a wide range of competence in the area of corporate ownership, from ports and shipyards to the Gdynia Dalmor, which has been engaged in development activities for several years. As if that were not enough, the project also proposes to amend the Law on ports and marinas, which weakens the influence of local authorities on the management of seaports. I would remind you that, in accordance with the current wording of this law, representatives of the relevant municipalities are the chairmen of the supervisory boards of seaports. This strengthens the position of local authorities - the owners of the ports where representatives of the State Treasury have a majority on these boards. As we know, this privilege is the result of a long discussion between the supporters of leaving ports in the hands of the State Treasury and local governmentmen seeking their communalisation. The provisions of the Ports and Seaports Act reflect the compromise that is now being undermined. It is clear that the relationship between the local government and the port in the coastal city goes far beyond the normal relationship between the shareholders of the capital company. Port development is crucial for the municipality and, on the other hand, through smart local government policy can do a lot of good for the port. It is in the public interest to associate these institutions. The experience of Pomerania local authorities shows that their close cooperation brings real added value both for businesses and for local residents. It is difficult to call the exchange of views that took place at the meeting of the Administrative Committee a serious systemic discussion. The argument in defence of the provisions of the project came almost exclusively to the invective at the Pomeranian local authorities. If you don't know what's going on, it's the stools. The experience gained so far from the observation of changes in the Pomeranian authorities of ports helps to defend the idea that the standard was to fill these functions by PiS activists with a very debatable accompaniment. This is at the expense of independent managers. A good example is the president of the Gdynia port, cancelled in the spring, who worked in this company for over 30 years. The port under his leadership has achieved record results in recent years, making powerful investments. High Seym! At first reading, I also talked about the strange behaviours of the then president of the Council of the Gdynia port, the activist of the PiS and one of the Gdańsk, not the Gdynia, housing cooperatives. I would remind you that this person, acting as a member of the Supervisory Board, was elected President of the subsidiary by the Management Board in which she had previously participated in the selection. It's been a few weeks since the first reading. In the meantime, the minister didn't respond. All I learned was that the activist resigned from the supervisory board of the port and was called to the supervisory board of another company with his participation, of course maintaining the above-mentioned position of President. High Izbo! The above example illustrates well the quality of ownership oversight exercised by the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation. It is highly likely that the proposed amendment is intended to take over the role of the Heads of the Supervisory Boards of Maritime Ports by the subsequent so-called. Pisiewicz. Similarly, another change appears to be toxic, which reduces the requirements for the supervisory boards of subsidiaries. Question: "Why?" For these reasons, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform of the Republic of Poland makes an amendment which maintains the current state, which is definitely better for both ports and for local governments. I ask the High House to accept it. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u59	Thank you very much. I would like to speak with Mr Mirosław Suchon, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u60	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am pleased to present my position on the parliamentary draft law amending the Law on the departments of government administration and some other laws, print No 750, presented in the committee's report in print No 861. Ladies and gentlemen! This draft law, as the applicants state in the explanatory memorandum, provides for the establishment of the ministers responsible for maritime, fisheries and inland waterway transport, the legal instruments necessary for the proper performance of the tasks entrusted to them. It is of course the right of every government to shape the system according to the needs of government plans. In fact, if it weren't for some of the proposed regulations, it would be natural for this project to be supported by our club. Unfortunately, like other such submissions addressed by the High House in recent months, it has significant shortcomings preventing, at least at this moment, voting in favour of its adoption. And so the first question concerns the authorship of this project. It is a parliamentary project, not a government project, but in fact it should be the result of government practice and in our view it should be presented to the High House by the government. Why is this so important? Even during the project process, it turned out that the proposed rules were not in line with the government's view on the issue of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. The project originally provided that, for this agency, the minister responsible for fisheries would have almost equal rights as the minister responsible for rural development. I feel like it was part of some fractal struggle inside the ruling party. Similarly, although, of course, on a smaller scale, the proposed amendment to the Law on the Financing of Science - the Minister for Maritime Affairs - was to be some sort of consultant in terms of the amount of resources allocated to research in the field of maritime, inland waterway and fisheries, which in my view could have resulted in permanent blockage of decisions. Another example of the failure of the Parliamentary project was the constitutional question expressed by the State Treasury's Public Prosecutor's Office regarding the regulation of the issuing of implementing acts in the field of transport law, namely their impreciseness due to generality. Of course, this was improved during the committee's work. However, the examples I have cited lead to the conclusion that it is indeed up to the government to submit a draft amendment to the Law on administrative departments, as this is a kind of range of activities of individual ministers and it is difficult for the High House to share competences among individual ministers. I regret to say that the position we share with the President of the Polish Academy of Sciences, which draws attention to the changes in the Act on the National Centre for Research and Development, which are causing a disruption of representativeness between scientific, economic and government administration, is still valid. Despite wide support for the request to maintain the appropriate proportion, the government and the Members of the applicant failed to take into account the conclusions of the position of the Polish State. Therefore, the government administration will be privileged in the Council and we believe that this could undermine the quality of the Council's findings and its politicalisation. There are still serious doubts about the changes that the project introduced in the Education Act. They entrust the Minister with power over the establishment and running of public maritime, inland waterway and fisheries schools, thereby limiting the competence of the district government in the field of vocational education. Meanwhile, the opinion of the Polish County Association is absolute in this matter. These schools already existed, and they were inefficient, that's the wrong way. Although, of course, I understand and even welcome the proposal that competition curricula should be evaluated by ministries, although generally based on guidance from industry entrepreneurs. I appreciate that, because in this field of vocational education, our Ministry of Education... I'll leave three dots. Finally, I would like to express my critical opinion on the article. 6 and Article 6 40. Art. 6 is a typical stool jump in companies of the State Treasury, whereas art. 40 is a typical staff article. Unfortunately, the Bear action. en did not teach the government side or members of the parliamentary majority anything. I have no illusions that you still want to fire competent people and hire your officers. It's ruining our country. High Izbo! In view of my position, I would like to inform you that the Modern Posel Club cannot support the submission as presented by the committee. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u61	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Sylvester Khrushch, Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u62	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Kukiz Club15 our position on amending the Law on Government Departments and some other laws. Why are we going to vote in favour as a club? I am already saying at the beginning of my position: because these changes have been made, these corrections have already been needed for the past 15 and 20 years. For the last years after 1989. Poland has really turned its back on the sea. Not only, see what happened before World War II. Poland steamed to the sea, steamed to Gdynia, built a railway bus in this direction, developed shipping, had a very large fleet, and for the last 25 years of freedom we rolled out of the seas, oceans, rolled up our shipbuilding industry, our inland shipping, our maritime education and today we found a state of affairs. We are pleased that our country sees the need to reverse this process. Changes in cannons have been necessary for a long time, but it's a good thing we're doing it today. As a Member of Szczecin, I am impressed by the scope of the changes that we have really dreamed of over the years. In any sectoral debate that has taken place Whether in the Tricity or in Szczecin, we said this: there must be one coordination around the rivers, around the ports, around the shipbuilding industry, in one place. Poland must understand that this direction is a huge budgetary cumulation. As we read in the explanatory memorandum to the bill, from 3 to 5% EU gross domestic product is developed in the maritime sector, 90% Foreign trade and 43% EU internal trade is carried out by sea. Let's add here all inland freight transport, after all this is half the transport in the Netherlands, 30% in Germany. The shipbuilding industry accounts for 10% world production. In the fishing fleet only Europe engages without a small 100,000. People. These numbers represent how we've been backwards from the Baltic Sea, from the sea. Those who live on the Oder remember how many barges used to swim this river, we remember how many inland schools there were. Those who live in the Tricity, in Szczecin, remember how well our shipyards used to work. We also remember in fishing ports, in Kołobrzeg, in Darłów, in Ustko, how good it used to be for fishermen. Today, as I said before, we are moving towards such far-reaching changes. Here I've scored them, that's an impressive number. I don't know, a revision of the Waste Act, some investment control, development policy rules, telecommunications law, transportation law, state border protection. Laik might ask why it's so profound, why it's, for example. amendment of the law on arms and ammunition, on inland navigation. Because this is one of the most sensitive places in our economy. If we are talking about the state border, we must be aware that the Oder is in contact with the German border, there is the HoFriWa channel, there is the strategic exit of the port in Świnoujście. We must keep it in one decision-making place and the Ministry of Maritime Affairs is such a place. Already in the years 2005-2007, when the ministers of this ministry were counsel Rafał Wiechecki and Minister Gróbarczyk, there was a basis for these processes to take place, but we had to wait 10 years to put a dot over i. He's glad we're going this way. So that this law will not bring additional financial burdens and is in line with the European Union's regulations. So, Minister, we ask you to proceed with this as soon as possible. The Kukiz Members' Club15 will vote in favour with two hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u63	Thank you very much. I would ask Mr Kazimierz Kotowski to speak on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u64	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The proposed novel is intended to equip the established Ministry of Economy with legal bases, mechanisms and give the opportunity and opportunity to carry out tasks of competence. When we analyse the proposed changes, we can divide them into four groups. In the first group, the Minister of Maritime Affairs is granted authority over the state institutions in this area. Among other things, there is one thing that goes on here. about the Maritime Search and Rescue Service, the Central Maritime Examination Commission or the Maritime Institute. The second group of amendments concerns the establishment of a general competence of the Minister for Maritime Affairs as a minister exercising powers in institutions belonging to the Treasury in areas such as maritime affairs, inland navigation and fisheries. It is about including its role in laws that concern these companies, e.g. companies related to ports and marinas. The third group deals with changes in transport security laws, exceptional conditions, increased security and clarification of rules. In the fourth group of changes, we are talking about strengthening the role of the Minister of Maritime Affairs as a supervisory authority in the field of secondary education and research on maritime and inland affairs. This is good, but in our opinion and in the opinion of the club there are many points and moments that remain unexplained. We're not really talking about targets, we're not really talking about results. Above all, we are talking about fulfilling functions and obligations on supervisory boards. It's not here. also speech and a clear picture, which concerns staff policy. Given the experience and effects of certain activities in recent years, we may have and have reasonable doubts about the implementation of this area and the selection of human resources. We do not demand participation for a clear reason, because we know the outcome of the elections, but some clear, clear criteria for the selection of persons for certain functions and positions should be indicated, defined and followed - observed. I would also like to draw attention to the implementation of tasks and competences in the fields of education, research and progress and tasks in the field of innovative solutions. My previous speakers spoke of these doubts. It also concerns and questions the fact that the next act of local governments is treated again not as a partner, but as a party that is co-opted into certain bodies to carry out certain tasks. Hence, having such doubts and taking into account those understatements which were not explained during the legislative process, our club will not be able to support this draft law in this form. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u65	Thank you very much. I would also like to ask Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan to speak on behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarni Circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u66	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Members' Circle of Free and Solidarni, I present my position on the proposal for a parliamentary bill amending the law on the departments of government administration and certain other laws after work in committee. The aim of the proposed regulation was to strengthen the Polish maritime economy. The measures that would lead to the implementation of the proposed concepts are, among others. transfer from other ministries to the Minister responsible for inland waterway transport for the proper fulfilment of the tasks assigned to him. However, as a result of the consultation between the resorts, the original scope of the powers which the Minister responsible for inland waterway transport would have obtained as a result of the adoption of that law was reduced. The functioning of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture has been left in its current form and part of the competence of the Minister responsible for Science has been excluded from the field of research. As these changes are the result of discussions between the ministries concerned, we have no objection to them. In addition to this, a number of amendments have been introduced in the committee's work by the applicants, which should not raise any doubts. These are among others. changes in the area of examinations confirming professional qualifications governing the form of approval of the composition of the examination boards and the catalogue of questions, the identification of implementing acts which would be no longer valid in connection with the amendments introduced by the law, and other amendments of an editorial and clarification nature. In our view, there should also be no change in the personal compositions of the supervisory boards of public limited liability companies referred to in the article. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and 3 laws on ports and marinas. According to this regulation, representatives of municipalities may not constitute more than 1/5 of the composition of that board if the municipalities do not have at least 10% shares in the total share capital of the company concerned. At the same time, it is noted that at least one representative of the municipality must be in the Council. Such a solution will avoid a situation where the fate of the company is decided by the Supervisory Board, where the majority are representatives of a municipality with a negligible amount of shares in its total share capital. This regulation will also contribute to the greater contribution of the municipality to the development of the company, not only the decision-making but also the capital contribution. In view of the fact that, despite many changes, this draft law after work in committee still meets the original assumptions of strengthening and restoring the maritime economy that we have supported from the outset, the Free and Solidarni Circle will vote in favour of the contested law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[We invite you to read the bill.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u67	Thank you so much for speaking. Four Members have entered the list of Members wishing to ask a question on this point. You start with Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, the Law and Justice Club. Time, two minutes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u68	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Over the past decades, there has been a systematic reduction in the length of inland waterway routes with adequate parameters for shipping. Due to the deteriorating state of the waterways, there is little interest in inland navigation as an alternative mode of transport. The development of river transport in Poland depends on the construction of a network of adequate quality waterways and the infrastructure attached to them. Social education is also very important, because river transport is one of the cheapest and most environmentally friendly modes of transport. My question is: Will the creation of a new department of government administration: Inland navigation contribute to another, better treatment and development of inland waterway transport? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u69	Thank you very much. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform Club. Here's another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u70	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Parliamentary drafts of laws amending the Law on the departments of government administration and some other laws are processed almost at each meeting of the Sejm. No one knows what the current law on government departments is anymore. Today, the second reading of another parliamentary project on competences this time, the powers of the Minister for Maritime Affairs. At the same time, as many as 30 other laws are amended. These changes are made without the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office, without inter-ministerial arrangements. Nobody's got it under control. The recent time has clearly highlighted the serious deficiencies of government coordination. This project is a mess of chaos. Does the Prime Minister know what's going on in her subordinate ministries? I'm asking for an answer. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u71	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u72	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In fact, I would like to ask questions from three areas. The first concerns the ownership supervision of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. It fell off the project, although it was there from the beginning. And I'd like to ask, where did this come from? Didn't you really consult with the ministries before submitting this project, how to They wanna introduce this surveillance, who's gonna bring it in? Did the state really give up on this important project with the government? The second question concerns the competences of local authorities. I have the impression that the records in this act are shifting us back to the Polish People's Republic, where such a guiding thought was that from Warsaw it was better visible than from Gdańsk, Gdynia, from Szczecin. This is how this project looks at these companies, at the activities of the ports that are on the Coast. And I would like to ask, what is the reason for this return to such thinking is that from Warsaw it is better visible than directly from Gdańsk, from Szczecin, from Gdynia, from all those places that this law will apply. And the third thing I wanted to ask you is this unfortunate art. 40, which will probably lead to the release from the department of a large group of people working in this area until now. Did you estimate how many people would lose their jobs? Because the fact that a lot of people are gonna lose their jobs, we're sure. Once, on the occasion of the Act on the National Defence Academy, which is now called the Academy of War Art, the state swore at every sanctity that no one would lose their job or that it would be a small amount. Over 100 people have lost their jobs. And I have a question: how many people will lose their jobs again to find your Teddy Bear stools, [[♪ The bell ♪]] What do you think they're gonna be able to do? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u73	Thank you very much, sir. And the last question will be asked by Mr Sylvester Khrushch, the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u74	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I must add now that the public consultation on the pooling of competences, the strengthening of the Minister for Maritime Affairs in port cities has been going on for many years, so that the industry is ready and aware of the changes that are necessary to return to the sea to look at the Baltic Sea and develop fisheries, inland navigation or shipyards. And now it's an important, important question for me. The Chinese, when they wanted to sail to the Pacific, started planting forests on masts, prepared themselves 100 years before building their armadas for this departure. And now I have a question. We should be strong on education by now. We're going to build ships, and Szczecin is limping: we don't have a technician to build ships, and the ship building department is limping. Do we see in the ministry the need to prepare programs, prepare staff, actually rebuild staff of people who may have a lot of work in three or four years' time? We're already seeing this great Szczecin coming back, our strong shipyard, but do we have welders, do we have the right people to put the cables in, who know how to sand, how to paint such ships and what paint? We just have to rebuild it, and that's my question: Are we ready for this? And now for inland education. Few people in Poland know and boast that our company OT Logistics is today a serious player in inland transport in northern Germany. Now that we've realized... Here we applaud: we want to connect Odra with the Danube, we want future water thresholds, which we will then connect with Belarus, to bring barges to Warsaw. But for that, we have to educate people who are going to swim with these shoulders today. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and manage these water thresholds. Is the Ministry prepared for this? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u75	Thank you very much. I would like an answer from the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping of Mr Grzegorz Witkowski. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u76	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This law on the amendment of the law on administrative departments is a technical law, it sanctiones a situation from November last year, i.e. the creation of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping, which was enshrined in the Law and Justice programme and as announced by Prime Minister Beata Szydło in the exposé. I refer to the questions of our honourable Members and Members. Mr Gonciusz asks about inland navigation. Of course, our goal until 2030 in the strategy adopted by the Council of Ministers is to sail the Oder, build a cascade on the central and lower Vistula, connect the Oder and the Vistula on their upper sections with the Silesian channel. It's gonna take us some time, but I'm sure it will, that's the plan. We are at the stage of ratifying the AGN Convention, which will bring us closer to the family of countries that have inland navigation. Let me remind you that in Poland, river transport is some sort of ferry of all transport in the country. In Germany, the Netherlands, Belgium, in France these are huge numbers. It's a big charge to previous governments, to the Civic Platform, that it wasn't done. Why, sir, why? It's so simple, so obvious. Mrs Czernow is accusing a lack of consultation. Not exactly, there was an interministerial consultation on this bill. He says there was no opinion of the Sejm Analysis Bureau. There was an opinion of the Legislative Bureau, you were still from the Legislative Office of the Sejm and all their amendments - Mr Czartoryski can improve me - all the amendments during the consultation were accepted in committee. Modern Member - I'm sorry, I didn't get a name - he was talking about Art. 40, about firing people in the ministry. No, they all moved from the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction to the Ministry of Maritime Affairs. So that all those people who were engaged in maritime affairs... Yeah, who took care of it? For the last eight years of the maritime economy in the government? 80 people - shipyards, ports, inland navigation. They're all planning by one host now, they know what to do, and nobody's gonna be fired from this department. Mr Sylvester Khrushch. Thank you very much for these 2 speeches at all, because they touch the essence of the problem: rebuilding, turning Poland to the sea, not treating ports as a domestic cow, not treating shipyards as land for a developer. You mentioned Dalmor, Mr Azievicz. What's...? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I knew it. What does Dalmor do? What does Dalmor do? You said it perfectly. And who did it, who did it? [[But that's very good.]] Okay, I'll leave it without comment, but I hope it's in the record. Very well, Dalmor doesn't do deep sea fishing, she does developer. Vocational education, technology. We have two inland navigation techniques in Nakle and Koźl. We want to return to our resort being subject to vocational schools, and this is part of the plan of the Ministry of National Education to rebuild vocational education, which was also destroyed by... Exactly. OT Logistics. Yeah, we have a good relationship with them. They build, expand quays in the port of Świnoujście. Of course, at many conferences, in Wroclaw, especially, which, as it is contractualally possible to say, is the capital of the Odrzaska Waterway, very actively you state, i.e. these companies, especially OT Logistics, engage, are interested. It's easier for them to sail Oder to Berlin and west than Szczecin, which, of course, makes it more competitive... Ports in Szczecin and Świnoujście obviously lose on this. [[What about the Pisievichs in the ports?]] I guess that'll be all. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u77	Thank you very much, Minister. And I have a question for Mr Marcin Horala: Would you like to take the floor as a representative of the applicants? You're welcome. [[Voice from the room: There will be an answer.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u78	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the applicants, I would like to address a few points and questions that have been raised in this discussion. The first issue that has been raised here - very well - is that ports are being disconnected from the ground. This would allegedly be the result of the concentration of ports together with other maritime departments in the Ministry of Maritime Affairs. So let's see how this connection between ports and land facilities looked like in the previous concept when they were part of the Ministry of Infrastructure. Port in Gdynia - not connected to the system of national roads, connected only by the district road, Estakada Kwiatkowskiego, actually requiring closure and renovation, in very poor technical condition. The answer to this need would be the construction of the so-called. Opat - the ring road of the northern tri-city agglomeration with the Red Road liaison, which has been the last 8 years of which the infrastructure management authorities, the general management, the Minister of Infrastructure, have persistently refused to include national road needs in the list. Even in this famous project, the construction plan, which remained after the governments of the Civic Platform, where almost twice as many roads were presented as there were finances for their implementation - even in such, say, a little science fiction program - the project of building this road was not found. Now the Ministry of Infrastructure, working with the Ministry of Maritime Affairs in this area, must run from practically zero. Sorry, I'd be unfair, something's done. A letter of intent was signed one month before the 2015 elections - a letter covering three parties to the responsibilities of the port and city of Gdynia, in which they commit themselves to carrying out a number of actions, plans, consultations, arrangements, and finally, the Ministry of Infrastructure undertakes to take account of the effects of these actions. This is the question of access to land storage for ports. What's more, there's another problem, and we can't avoid these personal issues here either. Mr Paweł Adamowicz, the president of the city of Gdańsk, allowed and led to the construction of the Raduni Forum, which is such a conference and commercial centre... I do not know what else on the album over the main railway bus going through the Tri-City, including the port in Gdynia. This will cause that, due to safety regulations, if there is a dangerous goods wagon on a train, it will not be able to use this route because such loads cannot be located under large human clusters. The answer to this problem is the alternative route, railway line 201 from Bydgoszcz to Gdynia, following the trail of the former coal bus, which we found in the construction program for the years 2019 to 2022 after previous governments. Counting from the beginning of the Civil Platform's reign, it is 15 years, which is longer than it took to build a port in Gdynia from the level of the fishing village to the level of the largest port in the Baltic. [[Applause]] Weakening the influence of local governments. I agree, of course, that the original wording of the Ports and Piers Act was a provision of some kind of compromise as regards companies managing strategic ports, but that this compromise was not fulfilled. He was formally executed, a number of proprietary transformations were made, which... It can be said that there has not been a breach of the law, but the fact is that the law states that in the airports management companies, local governments are to take on serious shares by bringing them in capital or by importing land. In Gdynia and Gdańsk it was to be 33% shares. Currently in these companies in Gdynia local government has 0.04 , and there further figures, the percentage of total share capital, and in Gdańsk it has 2,32 As long as my memory doesn't confuse me. So this compromise has been made. Worked unilaterally. Perhaps this is a matter of imprecise rules in the original Ports Act. I do not blame the local authorities for adopting new competences and not fulfilling their obligations or obligations, from which the provisions of the law have allowed them to fail, but the fact remains. I would also like to draw your attention - especially to some of the non-coastal Members speaking on this issue - to the fact that Gdansk, Gdynia and Szczecin-Świnoujście are three ports of strategic importance for the state economy. These are not the only ports, there are dozens of other ports in Poland, which are of course also managed by local governments, and praise them for that, and very well, while these are three ports of key importance for the country's economy. This is the equivalent of national roads and motorways in the field of road infrastructure in the field of port infrastructure, and these are managed entirely by the State. Therefore, given this imbalance - gross imbalance - capital in port management companies, given that these are strategic ports for the economy of the whole state and that the economy of the whole state depends on them, we are actually introducing a mechanism which - attention - will not exclude local governments. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Of course.]] He'll guarantee them a seat on the board of directors. This is not enough, they are shown the way to increase their impact in ports by bringing their shares or land into a fetch, so as to cover at least 10% shares in port management companies, only 10%. Another issue, the issue that has been raised here: as ours - supposedly ours - nominates with questionable managerial achievements are taking positions in port management companies. At first reading, I presented what these supposedly questionable competences look like. I'm going to address the question of one person who's been raised again. Mr Azievicz was gracious to say that the chairman of the Supervisory Board is a PiS activist. I conclude that it was a slip and that it was about the vice-president, because the president of the port supervisory board is Professor Grzelakowski appointed by the municipality of Gdynia... [[Vice.]] ...the vice-president was indeed appointed by the Treasury. As president of the PiS in Gdynia, I know all its members and I inform you that it is not a member of the PiS in Gdynia or any other city from what I know. Apart from being on the supervisory board of one of the housing cooperatives, as you always mention, he also has the experience of Vice-President and Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Dalmor at a time when it was still a maritime economy company and not a developer. Of course, after taking over... [[Under the rule of Pis and Self-Defense.]] ...by the Civic Platform immediately revoked from this function. It's obvious. And then it wasn't about Peowicz. Some kind of reflection was foreign to the state. So that it is a person experienced on this ground, also professionally in infrastructure management. And it's not unusual, it often happens, for example. persons who check whether they operate on the supervisory board may be delegated at all to the management of the undertaking, then become CEOs of undertakings. [[But show me your résumé. Why don't you do it?]] So there's nothing unusual here again, something that wouldn't happen in the normal economy. Another issue is the acquis of the cancelled President of the port in Gdynia. I have great respect for President Jarosinski, actually spent his entire life in the harbor. On the other hand, the natural thing is that people burn out. There is such a phenomenon that even those who have great success in some positions will no longer be able to do so in time. A certain exchange, refreshment of management staff is something obvious and natural in the economy. And it's not like any CEOs in the companies were there for life. But if we look at the recent effects of the work of the port management in Gdynia, we cannot fail to notice many of their negligence or many of their shortcomings. The Member spoke of an increasing number of transhipments, and last year it fell. Most importantly, it fell in the key group, small change, 6%... [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Exactly.]] ...and in the containerized small group by 20%. And we know why. Well, that was... [[But we know why. The Member works in a port company, so that...]] ...from neglecting one significant investment. Someone who turned around in this industry, went to trade fairs, read specialist literature, knew that in the world we have a trend of displacement of large ships on increasingly less important lines, that we have a trend of moving away from fider shipping to transoceanic shipping, that such large ships will influence the Baltic and will want to maintain a connection from the Baltic and that therefore we need to deepen the port in Gdynia and expand the turntables. [[What's going on? It was exactly initiated by Jarosinski.]] This has not been done for many years, and then for many years it took time for the Navy Shipyard to agree to transfer a piece of land between one state company and the other. [[Managed by a syndicate.]] Now, sir, I am speaking.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u79	Mr President, please allow me to finish this speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u80	Thank you very much, Marshal. I'm on my way to the end. So this negligence, one can say, directly resulted in the decrease in the number of transhipments, the departure of parts of ship owners from Gdynia port and the creation of a situation in which we currently have a monopoly in Poland on the ocean shipping market, one terminal. This is a serious charge. Another issue is the requirements in subsidiaries. We simply exclude companies in which local governments are such a minority shareholder, from the action of the regime on municipal companies and apply general, generally accepted rules in all companies of the Treasury, including your governments, also for previous governments. We are not introducing any specific provisions here, on the contrary, we are eliminating certain specific provisions... [[That's the need to have powers.]] ...and we introduce general principles. In reply to Mr PSL - it is probably no longer there - who would like clear rules for selecting people for such a position, I would like to inform you that they are very clear, they are defined by company statutes. In Skarb Państwa companies there is a requirement to hold a certificate and pass an exam, the authorities of these companies are selected in the competition procedure and the authorities of the subsidiaries on general terms, such as in all other companies of the Skarb Państwa. These are very clear rules. Let's get to the questions. In fact, I have already answered most of them, but I cannot leave without answering the question of a Member from the Civic Platform. She asked if anyone now knows what the law on government departments is. Well, I volunteer, I know. I recommend reading the Journal of Laws or the online legal information system, there such information [[Applause]] You can reach out. Of course, this bill was consulted, even though it was a parliamentary project, the applicants were in contact with the government, with the ministries. Of course, he received all the required opinions. Mr Suchoń of Modernity was also surprised - from the fact that the amendments were accepted in committee, he asked whether he was not consulted. Well, Mr, that's what committees are for, to work on the text and sometimes to accept amendments. It's okay to accept an amendment to the bill in committee. I'd even say it's better that the bill is probably more refined. And as for the return to the PRL you were talking about, about how it is better to manage from Warsaw, I'm just going to refer to what I said. We have several dozen ports in Poland, a large number of them are managed entirely by local authorities, but these three ports of key importance for the state economy should be managed primarily taking into account the prospects of benefits for the economy of the whole state, because the whole country, the whole economy of the whole country benefits from this. [[Applause]] A voice or a perspective... [[Bravo.]] ...the municipalities or local authorities in which they are located are valuable, so we retain their participation in the supervisory bodies, while they cannot be dominant. And I can't imagine anything else, and that was the subtext of one of the statements that these changes are wrong, because good cooperation with local governments is needed, i.e. that in guession after these changes this good cooperation will not be - I think it is a little offensive even for local governments - that they will resent that they have lost their seats on supervisory boards. And what are they going to do now, block access to ports, or do they have a negative impact on local development plans? I think we're in the midst of some serious people. The port authorities will certainly be ready to talk and cooperate with local authorities. I am a great optimist and I hope that the local governments will accept this hand extended to cooperation. On the other hand, the issue is completely different - and this is not a matter of the powers of local governments at all, it is not an issue of the empire, it is a matter of the dominion - ownership, participation in the ownership of the shareholder company grossly minority, which has so far had an extremely excessive influence on its management in relation to the size of its shares. We're just trying to make things more balanced. And as I say, we leave the gate, we point out the roads for local governments to be more involved in port development. The maritime economy and ports need above all more land for their development. Let the local authorities carry these land, ports will develop and cooperation between ports and local authorities, I think, will flourish. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u81	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. [[May I, Your Marshal?]] In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, an amendment was tabled to the proposed bill, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: the report of the Digital, Innovation and Modern Technologies Committee, the Education, Science and Youth Committee and the Public Finance Committee on the Government's draft law amending certain laws defining the conditions for conducting innovative activities (prints No 789 and No 868). I would like to ask Mr Marcin Horala to present a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u82	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the joint committees: the Committee on Public Finance, the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies on the Government's draft law amending certain laws defining the conditions for conducting innovative activities. This draft was examined by the Sejm in its first reading at its meeting on 13 September and addressed to these joint committees. On 14 September, the committees set up a special subcommittee to work on a project I had the honour of chairing, and on 22 September we presented a report to the joint committees on the work of the subcommittee. The committees have adopted the report I am presenting today. Two words of general nature about the project. Ladies and gentlemen, this project, although it has not so far aroused a greater interest in the media, is a project, I would say a key, fundamental one, because it responds to this fundamental problem that we have and which we will have in a few years' time, especially in the case of the Polish economy, the exhaustion of a certain functional model, or perhaps rather dysfunctional economic development. What is his character? First of all, it is characterised by the fact that it is based on cheap labour, on the exploitation of natural resources, moreover, on the exploitation of robbery, carried out under such conditions that this resource, the Poles, did not renew itself. We all know the demographic collapse we're currently in. Young Poles forced to work more than their own at low rates, often under bad conditions, not on the basis of a contract of employment, elected emigration or, while staying in the country, did not feel confident enough to start a family, buy an apartment, ensure their family's existence, so that also those families would expand. So that so far our economic model - I will repeat this because this is a very important issue - was based on the robbing operation of an unrenewed natural resource. We have to change that. We need to move on to the economy in which Poles earn well, under stable conditions, which ties them to Poland and makes them want to bind their future to it, to start families and live here, and in order to achieve this, we need, among others. move towards a knowledge-based economy, innovation, high-quality services and products. How does it look today? Not so good. Poland committed to increase R &amp; D expenditure to 1,7% GDP in 2020 However, in 2014 it was only 0.94% , of which almost half are in private companies. In the EU's innovation ranking, we have a long 24th place, and in the global innovation competitiveness ranking we are at 72nd place. We can therefore say that, so far, the existing innovation support mechanisms are insufficient, and particularly insufficient incentives are available to encourage action in the area of: research and development in the private sector. That is why it is necessary - and that is the aim of this project - to construct a series of tools, a series of instruments that will reward such innovative activities. It naturally involves certain risks, of course, with certain costs, so entrepreneurs may often not be willing to bear these risks. That is why we need to build a tax system and a whole legal environment that will support and promote these activities. The subcommittee and committees adopted a total of three substantive amendments and a number of drafting amendments for the project at their meetings. I will now present these substantive amendments, briefly presenting the principles of the law. In the course of this, I will refer to the amendments adopted. What are the main assumptions here? Firstly, it is a change in the income tax laws which will exclude from the catalogue the taxable value revenue corresponding to the import to companies in the form of intellectual capital, i.e. from now on companies that will be created to commercialise to implement innovative products, ideas, patents or such cases... If a person joins such a company by bringing in his intellectual value, then his income will not be taxed. We also extend the catalogue of eligible costs to R &amp; D. They can be deducted from the tax base. We increase the amount of these deductions and, above all, simplify them for small and medium-sized enterprises. This will avoid costly accounting and cumbersome separation of costs, because so far these deductions have varied for different types of costs, and now for those so-called ones. Teddy bears, i.e. small and medium-sized enterprises, are unified. The first change - I will signal - which we have worked in committee, is to exclude these tax reductions from the scope of R &amp; D from the catalogue of permitted public aid according to EU regulations. Without this, they would involve a number of additional bureaucratic and reporting harassments. The comparative analysis of solutions in other European countries, as well as the decisions of the European institutions in this respect, shows that we can exclude them from this and not treat them as permitted state aid. We extend from 3 to 6 years the settlement period of these expenditures. Another very important issue. In the case of start-ups, i.e. companies that are just starting their business and may still not earn enough revenue from their activities, i.e. in order to be able to benefit fully from this increased R &amp; D allowance, a mechanism for reimbursement of eligible cash costs has been introduced. We are also deregulating low value public property management for the benefit of research, science and universities, so that they can obtain additional revenue from their activities more quickly and more easily. We are introducing the possibility of funding funds for environmental protection and water management projects related to the environmental technology verification system. Here again within the committee, an amendment has been introduced to allow GreenEvo to be supported, which is the implementation of the NIK audit recommendations. Another important change is the exclusion from the governance regime of the Treasury's assets requiring the approval of the Minister of the Treasury of cases where universities carry out commercialisation of the subject matter of their research, e.g. through technology transfer centers. The so-called procedure is simplified and verified. the patronage of scientists, i.e. the acquisition by scientific staff of rights to the results of their research and development. We extend the periods in which researchers have the right to participate in the benefits of commercialisation of their work, make the ownership of inventions created by the financing of research by the NCBR more flexible, and finally introduce a minimum level of expenditure for the commercialisation of research results. Here, too, I signal a substantive change made at committee meetings. Well, it was originally this. 0,5% , we increase it to 2% appropriations to finance the maintenance of research capacity. We want to encourage and encourage, and even, I would say, a little bit of pressure on scientific institutes to translate the results of their research into real economic benefits, that is, to say the least, simply commercialised. In conclusion, I would like to add that the bill was very efficient, with the support of all political forces in committee and subcommittees, above divisions. The amendments were usually submitted unanimously, without any comments. The final content of the report was also recommended unanimously by the committees. Finally, I would like to inform you that the joint committees recommend that the High House adopt the draft as set out in the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u83	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I ask Mr Witold Czarnecki to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u84	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present to the High House the position of my club on the government draft law amending certain laws setting out the conditions for the conduct of innovative activities contained in the report of the three joint committees, i.e. Digital, Innovation and Modern Technologies Committee, Education, Science and Youth Committee and Public Finance Committee, Parliamentary Printing No. 868. I presented a broader justification for the need for this project at first reading, first of all quoting the government's position that the country's development model so far has a serious risk of becoming trapped in the medium growth trap and the average product. It is clear that the development opportunities of the 2007-2013 financial perspective have been largely wasted and will be very difficult to implement, for example. the call for 2020 to achieve the level of R &amp; D expenditure foreseen in the Europe 2020 strategy. The arrears in this area have been enormous, and I have been talking about it for many years, for seven years. Every time I was a rapporteur, I had a koreferate on the education committee, and I said that something like this was going to happen to us, and it really is. So the arrears in this area are huge, and I will give you an example here to make this case clear. If Poland's investigation to the level set in the Europe 2020 strategy were to proceed as has been the case so far, the Polish government negotiated a reduced ceiling, 1.7% GDP, we would have reached 14 years of delay in 2034 - and 3% GDP in 2066 - 46 years of delays compared to developed countries. It is fair to say that some countries will not reach this level either, but that scale, so to speak, is incomparable with the Polish scale. For the record, I'd like to add that. Finland has already exceeded this level of funding by 2010. Returning to the government bill, it must be said that its aim is to launch a whole range of instruments that will contribute to the growth of innovation in the economy. The solutions adopted by the joint committees to improve the draft government law originally contained in print No 789 were widely discussed by the rapporteur and, at the same time, the chairman of the subcommittee working on this law. I will draw attention to two issues concerning this report and the amendments tabled in the report. In order to ensure a stable source of funding for the commercialisation of research and development results, it was proposed that research units should allocate 2% resources received to maintain the research capacity to finance commercialisation activities - the original version predicted 0.5% That's what print number 789 says. The second substantive change - tax relief for R &amp; D was excluded from the scope of treatment in terms of permitted state aid under EU rules. To conclude my speech, I would like to say that we can have no doubt that the financing of innovative measures will be significant, although we do not know today, in so far as it reduces with the new financial perspective 2021 and 2027. We do not agree that the competitiveness of the Polish economy is still due to low labour costs. We still have five years left from the current financial perspective, and we need to use that time. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of the government bill contained in the report of the joint committees. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u85	Thank you very much. And to speak in the name of the Civic Platform Club, I would like to ask Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u86	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present its position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending certain laws laying down the conditions for the conduct of innovative activities. My speech will consist of two elements. The first is the overall assessment of the project, the second is a brief justification for the two amendments we make. You're welcome, Marshal. Well, the bill or the project that will be, I hope, this law deserves a positive assessment in general. Why? First of all, it's good in substance. Secondly, there are no major technical and legislative concerns. Thirdly, it was the subject of consultation and a number of opinions. Fourthly, the regulations present in this project represent a natural evolution of the solutions that are in force today, only more favourable, go further. So I have no doubt that this is a good project. The amendments that I propose on behalf of the club fit into the target are on the line that my previous speakers mentioned here. We have such a provision in the draft which says that the taxable person is obliged to repay the amount shown in his statement under the previous paragraphs if, before the expiry of the three tax years, he is to be put into bankruptcy or liquidation from the end of the tax year for which he gave his statement. And that's okay. But a natural person, a single-member entrepreneur and a businessman in the form of a civil partnership is not formally put into liquidation. It is simply a declaration of termination of business activity in the Central Register and Information of Economic Activity. In the case of commercial passenger companies, it is possible, although in the light of Article, to carry out a formal liquidation procedure. 67 Commercial Companies Code Act is not necessary if the partners have agreed on a different way to terminate their business, but then liquidation or liquidation concerns a company which is not a taxpayer of income tax on individuals at all, the taxpayer is the partners. It is therefore also necessary to refer simply to the cessation or termination of business activities, not only to the liquidation. Second amendment. It is important to consider eliminating the need to implement a time-consuming procedure for obtaining the approval of the Minister of the Treasury after prior agreement of the university Senate in the case of short-term, up to 90 days, the rental of fixed assets for scientific purposes, e.g. testing apparatus. The proposed provision refers to conference, training, teaching, recreational and sports purposes or audiovisual production. These objectives are all right, but there are no scientific objectives here and they should be taken into account. If we want to facilitate cooperation between universities and innovative entrepreneurs, stimulate research, R &amp; D activities of the private sector, short-term paid access to scientific equipment should also be more formalised. And there is no doubt that those already included in the project are conference, training, teaching, etc. However, they do not cover scientific activities, because they can be scientific research, not just a scientific conference. In my opinion, this justifies the second amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u87	Thank you very much, sir. [[Did I put it together?]] Yes, you did. I already did. Don't worry, everything's fine. On behalf of the Club Modern Mr Paweł Pudłowski. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u88	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It is returning to our deliberations a government bill amending certain laws defining the conditions for conducting innovative activities. It is already after work in the committees mentioned by the three committees: the Committee on Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies, the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Public Finance. As we know, as we have heard from the rapporteur, the aim of the project is to create instruments that will contribute to the innovation of our economy. The most important elements that this law introduces include proposals for tax solutions, an increase in the amount of maximum deduction of eligible costs, or an extension of the period from the current 3 years to 6 in which it is possible to deduct costs incurred for activities: R &amp; D. During her work in the subcommittee, she requested, among others. increase the maximum deduction of all eligible costs per activity: R &amp; D from the tax base to at least 80%. In response, the Ministry of Finance stated that it would be too high a cost, to be valued at PLN 550 million per year, which is too much. It is a pity that the Ministry of Finance did not show similar concern by deciding to agree to increase the budget for restructuring of mining, when without a detailed plan for which these expenses would go, it agreed to increase it from PLN 3 to PLN 7 billion. This shows what our goals really are, where we really want the country to develop or where we don't want too loud demonstrations to appear. In addition, we proposed to introduce a non-standard, higher amount of deduction of all eligible costs incurred for R &amp; D activities from the basis for the calculation of the public-private partnership tax to 200%. Nor did this idea meet with the favor of the rulers. Finally, we proposed to set a minimum of 1% the financial resources to be allocated by the scientific body to finance the maintenance of research capacity. The PiS did not accept our amendment, but happily proposed 2% , emphasising this, should be given to the role of Modern as the initiator in terms of the proposed change. The law, in our opinion, meets the innovative activity in Poland, although not enough, as you have heard, and far too late. We will support this project because it is very much needed. It is right, however, to call the law a small law - you can have small ambitions, low goals and unfortunately, consistently, poor results. We can see it. I appeal to the government: Have more ambition, prefer to create the best possible right for entrepreneurs, for people who want to invest in our country, create new, well-paid jobs, new, innovative and, hopefully, revolutionary products and services worldwide. Be brave, be groundbreaking or go away. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u89	On behalf of the Polish People's Party Club Mr Krzysztof Paszyk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u90	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour on behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club to present our position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending certain laws defining the conditions for conducting innovative activities, prints No. 789 and 868. Today's package of changes in tax law, in the Law on the Rules of Exercise of the Rights of the State Treasury, in the Law on Higher Education and in the Act on the Polish Academy of Sciences is an attempt to dynamicize the innovative activities of Polish research centres and improve the conditions of innovative activity in our country. This, I think, is beyond doubt, and we are all exceptionally in agreement in this House. It's been a few years. you can see symptoms of improvement in this area, just mention this year's promotion of 7 places in Global Innovation Index, but the 39th position in the world certainly does not exhaust our dreams and ambitions in this area, and above all - what the previous speakers mentioned - the needs in our economy. This project concerns amendments to the Income Tax Act and the Tax Order. They are based on legitimate demands, i.e. abolishing the tax on intellectual and industrial property imports, extending the list of eligible costs to include the costs of obtaining a patent or increasing the amount of eligible costs related to R &amp; D expenditure. All of these changes must be clearly assessed positively, subject to or rather some doubt as to the tightness and enforcement of the regularity in this respect as regards the fiscal apparatus. We would not, I think, all of us, all of a sudden, that many of the projects or initiatives carried out, which have the value of innovation, would have this character only on paper or would have been fictitious, in order to optimize taxation, some of the companies would have become centres of innovation, because this is not the kind of innovation we want. The subsequent amendments proposed by the authors concern the Law on the Rules for the exercise of the powers of the State Treasury. In the Article provision. 5a the amended act is added paragraph. 1a, which is to be established in respect of legal activities carried out by a public university, the Polish Academy of Sciences and its research institute, the requirement to notify the Minister responsible for State treasury matters if the market value of the subject-matter of the regulation exceeds the equivalent of 250 000. Euros. So far, this limit has been much less than 50,000. Euros. The draft amendment also provides for more flexibility in the rules governing public legal entities' access to infrastructure, including research. This means that e.g. universities, research institutes, the Polish Academy of Sciences will be able to conclude short, paid leases and leases - conference rooms, audiovisual equipment. In practice, these entities will be able to dispose of their assets much more freely. Undoubtedly, the proposed direction of change is right and should improve the condition of state research centres and, above all, their independence. Here we would also like to draw attention to: May this release of the autonomy of centres apply to all, including the smaller ones located outside larger centres, which today deserve such support. To sum up, the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party also calls for the adoption of a government bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u91	Thank you very much. Mr Ireneus Gains from the Free and Solidarnia circle has made a statement on behalf of the Circle in writing. On the list of people who signed up for the question, we have four people. Anyone else want to sign up? I don't see anyone else, so I'm closing the list. First question, Mr Jacek Osuch, the Law and Justice Club. Two minutes. You're welcome. There's no envoy? Oh, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u92	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In fact, I wanted to ask two questions, but on the first question I wanted to ask, I actually got the answer - it's about raising the level of funding to 2%. And for that, thank you very much to the committee. On the other hand, my second question concerns the efficiency of the patent office. I have a question: Does the government intend to allocate 4 million missing funds to the patent office for innovative activities next year? If the office had received this money, it would have been able to issue more patent decisions and shorten the waiting time in this regard. I think this would be crucial to speed up the development of our innovative economy. The Patent Office declares to provide additional revenue to the budget in exchange for the 4 million zlotys they would have received. I think the game is worth the candle. So my question is, will the government spend $4 million? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u93	Thank you very much. Another question - Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u94	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! For starters, just so there's no doubt, I'm in favour of innovation. This is a priority and here I have no doubts. But at the first reading of the bill, I asked the government about the effects of this action on local government units. It follows from the justification of the law that the introduction of the law will result in a reduction of revenue of local government units by more than PLN 1.3 billion in the period analysed. At the same time, the bill does not provide for any compensation for local authorities, but the local authorities are in an increasingly difficult financial situation. More and more tasks are being done without guaranteeing funding. What does the government want to do? Do we want weak municipalities that are looking for almost every dollar from the state budget? And yet the inhabitants of individual local communities expect development, they have growing demands. I have a question: What forms of compensation is the government going to introduce and when? In my opinion, this is necessary for a multi-annual self-government officer. It is not possible to impose tasks at the expense of local governments all the time without trying to make it up to them in some way. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u95	Another question - Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u96	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I wanted to ask you about the effectiveness of the changes that this project is making. We feel like it's kind of half a step. We have such information that the environments expect more courage in these regulations, to meet their needs. I just wanted to ask you this: What is the opinion of the Ministry on the effectiveness of these changes that you expect? Is it really going to be such a very clear signal for development, or do you expect it to be some, I don't know, perhaps such, I would say, very slow but stable development? How do you assess this impulse, what effect will it have? And the second thing I wanted to ask you was about the sandbox regulators, about the regulatory sandboxes. This is a very common tool in the world, which for these innovative industries is an important area in which they can grow, because, as we know, today's law for innovation is not very much keeping up. Therefore, do you think about this Polish regulatory sandbox, or do you not take this issue so far? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u97	Thank you very much. Mrs Iwona Michalek, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u98	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Legal changes setting out the conditions for carrying out innovative activities are very, very expected by entrepreneurs. This is demonstrated by last week's business meeting with the Minister in Toruń. I am interested in extending the period of the possibility to deduct costs for R &amp; D activities. It is well known that the effects of introducing new solutions and achieving some results need to be waited for some time. This project sets out the possibility of using the relief, increasing this time from 3 to 6 years. I wanted to ask you on what basis this six-year settlement period was determined. Isn't it too short? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u99	Thank you very much. And the last question will be asked by Mr Piotr Misilo, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u100	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have this question - because I know it will be created so-called. big bill, now we are debating a small one - I wanted to ask, because I do not find a word in this small bill about the possibility of increasing the risk in evaluating projects and supporting the projects concerned. And I would like to ask this question, and at the same time - a suggestion - very much to ask that the State in the Ministry pay attention to it. Because when I talk to many marshals of voivodships, I often hear that they only co-finance those projects that can be successful. And you yourself and you will admit that an innovation that can certainly succeed has little to do with this. In the United States, where innovation reigns, many projects fail so that others can succeed. I also understand that if the tendency to risk is not somehow defined by a letter, by law, then, I am also aware, it will be very difficult for the companies of the Treasury to operate in this area. Everyone is afraid of spending money on projects that do not guarantee success, and projects that are innovative may not guarantee success, otherwise they would not be innovative, as the name suggests. So I think that this is a very important issue, and I would very much ask you to pay attention to this and somehow try to solve this problem systematically, in order to be prone to risk - not to bravado, but to be prone to risk - it was somehow secured in this bill and that the officials simply do not be afraid to make difficult decisions and co-finance projects that are innovative and that may not work out, and which maybe should be realized so that others can do it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u101	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education of Mr Piotr Dardziński. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u102	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Before answering the questions, I would like to thank you because, as has been mentioned many times in the previous discussion, the work on this law has been extremely efficient, which we owe to the three committees. I would like to thank the chairmen of these three committees and, of course, the Chair of the subcommittee, which managed the whole process well. Thank you very much for the amendments tabled. They actually make this project even better, making it more efficient. We are very hoping for such cooperation also in the preparation of the second Innovation Act, which should be ready by the end of the year and will most likely be in the Sejm at the beginning of next year. A little in response to the question about the effectiveness of change and the strategy we have adopted, and a little in response to the Member's call for our ambitions, we think that there are things in which evolution is better than revolution. This is also a good example - as the professor mentioned, we are continuing some work that had already been undertaken - that it is good to make changes in such a way as to know whether they are effective and effective. In this sense, Mr President, we are going to be consistent, which means that we can stay on this issue for a long time. As far as the scale of these changes is concerned, they are clear because they almost duplicate the proposals so far. From our consultation with the environments not only entrepreneurs, but also investors, which were conducted in the White Paper, it appears that entrepreneurs believe that these are important changes, although of course they expect further and larger changes. This applies especially to the amount of write-downs. We hope that in the next act there will be an opportunity, a potential that can be used to increase these copies. Professor Mirosław Suchoń asked about regulatory sandboxes. This topic has not been raised in the public consultation so far, neither the entrepreneur nor our social partners, nor investors, nor the resorts during the consultation of the law, nor in the White Paper, but because the Member has asked this in the context of the second Innovation Act, we will pay attention to it. Mrs Michalek asked about extending the period to 6 years. 6 years have been adopted on the basis of analysis and some good practices which relate to innovative projects. There it was pointed out that we adopted about such an investor model, that investors usually withdraw from companies between 3 and 5 years of investment, because then they begin to have the greatest impact. So we decided to give an additional year for a certain guarantee, knowing that in mature innovative systems this ageing process is faster. However, in our country, this ecosystem is only being built and this period may be a little longer. Mr Piotr Misilo asked about the risks. Thank you very much for this question, because this is actually a key element of the whole investment process concerning innovative solutions. We have mentioned this many times and we encourage... In general, this is a question that concerns a very important topic, namely the laws can create a good law, a friendly climate, but they do not always create a good practice. What will now be the concern of ladies and gentlemen of Members, is that we should be able to use these records - in this sense, I return to the topic of risk - also to encourage officials - but not only officials, also university administration, the administration of research institutes - to be willing to take the risks associated with the use of the instruments presented in this law. The government's position on this issue is clear - we should introduce tolerance for failure in our dictionary. Innovative projects in most cases end in failure, but in those cases where they do not end in failure, they guarantee success, which compensates for failure. The logic by which we say that each spent gold must turn is appropriate, but only for the whole process, not for individual projects. So we have to sum it up at the end, see what the results are, not account for every single project. With regard to questions that concern financial issues, since a certain innovation is applied in the case of this law, as you know, the position of the government is presented by two ministries, I will allow myself not to answer these questions and leave them to the person with the right characteristics. Once again, thank you very much for your cooperation with this law and for the unanimous adoption of the report of the Joint Committees. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u103	Already announced Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Mr Leszek Skiba. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u104	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The two remaining questions on financial issues. First, to increase the funding of the patent office. I would remind you that the budget law is now being adopted by the Council of Ministers. So that this is the time of the High House to pay attention to the financing of the patent office. The second issue is related to local governments. This case, i.e. that the fiscal effect for local governments is presented as negative in the OSR, has already been raised. There was a meeting of the joint government and local government committee twice - in April and July. The joint Commission and the local government have considered that this law in the longer term will indeed increase the revenue of the budgets of local government units in an appropriate way. Assuming that the Act will lead to an increase in innovation and that the increase in innovation will result in an increase in tax revenues, financial resources will be sent to the budgets of local government units sooner or later. Therefore, since local authorities themselves considered this to be a sufficient form of compensation, this compensation can be considered to be an increased budget revenue in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u105	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u106	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the Government draft law amending certain laws specifying the conditions for carrying out the innovative activities covered by the prints No 789 and 868. Ladies and gentlemen, objectively speaking, all are in favour of the dynamic development of innovative activities. The aim of the proposed law is to launch instruments that will contribute to the innovation of the Polish economy and thus increase national income and increase the level of prosperity in Poland. The question arises as to whether the proposed instruments are sufficient. I went to the trouble of searching the library resources of the University of Warsaw and Harvard University for available publications, in which there is a key word for innovation. It turns out that both universities have a similar number of publications and books at the level of several thousand. So the knowledge base is close. What happens next that Poland is one of the least innovative countries in the world? Why is this potential not translated into the state of our economy? Several reasons are mentioned in the explanatory memorandum of the Act. These are: weak tax incentives for innovation, low availability of funding for the next stages of innovative activity, bureaucratic science, aversion to the risk of institutions in the business environment. This law only partially responds to these problems, focusing on tax instruments and those that introduce greater flexibility in the R &amp; D sector. However, Poland urgently needs a real breakthrough in the area of innovation. Without improving the education system and the R &amp; D sector, it will be very difficult to escape the traps identified in the Responsible Development Strategy. We therefore have comprehensive actions ahead of us in all areas of scientific, research and economic activity that will foster innovation. Let's just look at two selected elements. According to Dr. Michio Kaku - American physicist-theoretician of Japanese origin, professor at the University of New York, string theory researcher, science promoter, futurologist, author of over 70 works and many books - America has a secret weapon providing its world premieres in innovation. This weapon is H-lb. What's this? It is a visa for geniuses without which in the United States there would be no Google or the famous Silicon Valley. Almost half of the PhD students in the best American universities are foreigners. America is the strongest magnet for the world's most capable people, and without them it is difficult to achieve an innovative economy. This makes us look at the problem of immigrants in a completely different light. The second point concerns creativity. I'm gonna bring up a very popular YouTube speech about creativity by John Cleese, an English comedy actor, a member of Monty Python's group, an author of a sketch about the Ministry of Stupid Steps. In a witty way, he pointed out factors conducive to creativity without which there is no innovation. In his opinion, the most important is a pressure-free environment in which the ideas of teams can be created. If this thesis is true, then Poland is far from such an organizational culture. The lack of partnership in social life and the farming way of management kill creativity in state and local institutions, but above all in economic organisations. Strong leadership must yield to the ability to manage a team of people, where there is room for very diverse types of personality and ways of receiving the outside world. Personnel policy is a very sensitive aspect of management - above all, a state body. In addition, I would like to draw attention to the ongoing revolutionary changes in the energy field, which can become a trigger for innovative changes in the economy and leading us to initiatives in Industry 4.0. We should give new mechanisms to create an interactive electricity market, as this will create a field for incubating innovative Polish companies. The Circle of Free and Solidarni - after reading the report by the Commission on Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies, the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending certain laws defining the conditions for conducting innovative activities - will vote in favour of the proposed law.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u107	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies, the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government draft law amending the Social Insurance Act (Prints Nos 803 and 856). I would like to ask Mrs Bożena Borys-Raccoon to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u108	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Government bill amending the Social Security Act, print No 803, entered the Sejm on 2 August this year. The proposal envisages an amendment to the Act of 13 October 1998 on the social security system consisting in the addition of paragraphs. Article 7a 84, which regulates the limitation of the institution in respect of the reimbursement of the benefits unduly collected and introduces the principle that a decision requiring reimbursement may not be taken later than 5 years after the last day of the period for which the undue benefit was claimed. This solution amends the applicable regulation, which provides that claims for unduly collected benefits shall expire 10 years after the date on which the decision fixing those claims has become valid. The draft also introduces transitional provisions concerning the recognition of appeals against decisions brought and examined before the entry into force of the Law. September 22nd this year The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, following its first reading and examination of the project and after adoption of the stylistic amendments, adopted without a vote of objection and without a vote of abstentions the draft law amending the Act on the social security system and pursuant to print No 856 asks the High House to adopt it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u109	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I would ask Mrs Barbara Bartus to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u110	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour, but also the great pleasure of presenting the position of my club, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, on the government bill amending the Social Security Act. I said I had a great pleasure because it's a pleasure working on this bill. It is a pleasure that the Polish government, the government of Mrs Beata Szydło, has noticed the legal gaps that are in this law, gaps that undermine even the constitutional principles of citizens' trust in the state and their rights. The Social Insurance Institution is an institution that is misunderstood by citizens, both by recipients and by contributors and by insured persons. And there's nothing to be surprised about, for example. last year, in 2015, as many as 507 decisions on the reimbursement of unduly collected short-term benefits were issued 5 years after the occurrence of this fact. As the rapporteur said, the existing rules state for what period the Social Security Office may require reimbursement of benefits. This is a period of one year, in one year's time, if the person who received the benefit has reported it, or even three years from the last payment, if the person has not returned it. Of course, this applies to long-term benefits. As far as short-term benefits are concerned, I will tell you how this project changes the situation, how important it is. As I said, 507 decisions were made last year after 5 years. And what are the decisions? Well, I know the situation. She applied to my parliamentary office of the lady - it was a few years ago - who worked full-time and had an additional 1/8 jobs, very little, somewhere else. When she got sick, she simply didn't go where she had 1/8 jobs and where she didn't go, but only with the employer with whom she was full-time. It turned out that after a few years of receiving this medical benefit from the Social Security Office, while checking the documents of the payers, he suddenly demanded reimbursement of the benefit as undue in the situation that you presented this exemption only in one place. It seemed irrational, abnormal, and this person received a call for reimbursement after a very long period of time since he stopped receiving sickness benefits. This bill won't allow it anymore. It introduces a 5-year period that is correlated with other regulations. It is very good that this government, Mrs. Beata Szydło's government, has noticed this situation and that this bill changes that. It is a pity that for so many years this has worked and no court has... nor has anyone asked the Constitutional Tribunal to determine whether this provision, the absence of this record of the period during which these benefits can be claimed, is in line with the Constitution. Because, in my opinion and, as is justified, in the government's view, such a lack, i.e. the absence of a record, for what period of time a decision can be made, would be inconsistent with the constitution. That is why I said it was a great pleasure to present the position of my parliamentary club, because, of course, my club - Parliamentary Club Law and Justice - fully supports and will be in favour of this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u111	Thank you very much, Member. On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, Mrs Bożena Henczyca. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u112	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I would like to present our position on amending the Social Security Act, print No.803. According to Art. Article 84 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Act of 13 October 1998 on the social security system, the person who has received an undue social security benefit shall be obliged to pay it back. According to the abovementioned above. the law may not be required to reimburse the amounts of social security benefits unduly collected for more than the last 12 months if the person receiving the benefit has notified the paying authority of the circumstances leading to the cessation of the right to benefits or the suspension of their payment, and yet the benefits have still been paid and in other cases for more than 3 years. In the current legal state, the provisions provide only for a period for which the pension authority may require the refund of the benefits unduly collected from the person who received the benefit, i.e. 3 years back from the last payment of the benefit. On the other hand, it does not provide for a period after which the Social Insurance Institution is unable to claim the refund of an unduly collected benefit. It follows from the Act that the claims for the wrongly received benefits are valid after 10 years, but the above period starts only from the date on which the decision fixing those claims is valid. Consequently, the pension authority shall not be limited by any time limit for a decision requiring the reimbursement of the benefits unduly collected. The provisions providing for the reimbursement of unduly collected benefits are as reasonable as possible, but there is a reasonable need to indicate the period during which it would be possible to make a decision allowing the recovery of the unduly collected benefit. In view of the above, it is proposed to amend the statute governing the institution of limitation as regards the reimbursement of unduly collected benefits in such a way that a decision requiring the reimbursement of the amount of unduly collected social security benefits may not be issued later than 5 years after the last day of the period for which undue benefits have been claimed. The expected effect of the entry into force of the regulation will be to protect the certainty and stability of the legal order and to exclude claims from the pension body, which would be separated from the actual situation of the insured person in view of the significant expiry of the period from the date on which they were created at the time of their completion. The Civic Platform Club is in favour of the amendment to the Social Security Act. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u113	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Jarosław Porwich from the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u114	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club, I have the honour to present my position on the government draft law amending the Social Security Act, print No.803. The proposed amendment concerns the Social Insurance Act, specifically the introduction in the provisions relating to the issue of the unduly collected provision of a limitation of the pension body, in so far as it is possible to make a decision requiring the reimbursement of the benefits unduly collected. The current rules only provide for a period for which the pension authority may require the person who received the benefits unduly to be reimbursed, i.e. three years back from the last payment, i.e. the receipt of the benefit. In addition, Article 2 is replaced by the following: The 84th Act on the social security system shows that claims for unduly collected benefits are valid after 10 years, but the expiry of the above period starts only from the date of the decision establishing those claims. Consequently, the pension authority shall not be limited by any time limit for a decision requiring the reimbursement of benefits unduly collected. It may be issued at any time, even 10 years after the person is unduly entitled to benefits. The amendment to the Act proposes an amendment by specifying that a decision requiring reimbursement of the amount of social security benefits unduly collected may not be issued later than 5 years after the last day of the period for which the benefits were unduly collected. The introduction of such a temporary limitation in the case of the possibility of a decision requiring the reimbursement of an unduly collected social security benefit disciplines the pension authority, affects the strengthening of the legal order and thus constitutes a decisive pro-Citizen element. Therefore, the Kukiz Club15 considers it appropriate to introduce such a solution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u115	Thank you very much, sir. A further statement, this time on behalf of the Modern Club, will be made by Mrs Joanna Augustynowska. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u116	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The standard should be the legislator's response to signals from the Supreme Court about the existence of a gap in the national legal system. Surely such a gap was the possibility for the pension authority at any time to issue a decision to reimburse the wrongly collected benefits. The lack of limitation in this matter was clearly a matter of regulation contrary to the intentions of the legislators. In one row, there were no statute of limitations for unjustly collected benefits, but also war crimes or crimes against humanity, which was probably not the case. This was an oversight detrimental to citizens, to their confidence in the state, but also detrimental to the pension body. This was a typical example of sloppy legislation that we have dealt with. The Modern Club therefore welcomes the government's initiative to correct an obvious legislative error. The proposed solution implements a reasonable balance of two values, one of which is legal certainty on the part of the citizen and the other a desire to improve the functioning of the pension body by imposing a temporary framework for action on it. Citizens' relations with state institutions should follow predictable, clear rules. Their basis should be trust in the institutions. Unfortunately, so far there has been a shortage of records in this area. The joint responsibility of the pension body, due to its own tardiness, has been expressed in the current legal state by relaxing the ailment of sanctions against the citizen, who has informed about the circumstances leading to the cessation of entitlement to benefits. But that's not enough. The limitation of the period for which the citizen is obliged in such a case to reimburse the benefits unduly received shall be maintained but only the establishment of a rigid time frame for the issuing by the authority of the decision requiring the reimbursement of the independent benefits shall bring the legal situation into order. For incomprehensible reasons in this matter, Poles have not yet been protected in the form of limitation of claims. It is difficult to regard as such a protection as a 10-year limitation period, which started only after the decision of the pension authority was finalized. In this situation, the expected slight loss of revenue to the ZUS and KRUS for the reimbursement of unduly collected benefits seems to be a price worth paying. On a yearly basis, we are barely talking about several hundred decisions concerning mostly short-term benefits. Modern in this and similar situations will always stand on the side of the citizen, transparency of the rules. The institutions and administrations must serve citizens, for that is what they are and are functioning for. We will therefore vote in favour of this law by sharing the government's argument. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u117	Thank you very much, Member. I would like another speech, on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club, from Mr Krystian Jarubas. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u118	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I am pleased to present my position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Act on the social security system (prints Nos 803 and 856). Ladies and gentlemen! The amendment proposed by the applicants concerns Article. Article 84 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Act of 13 October 1998 on the social security system (i.e.: Dz. U. z 2015 poz. 121, zm.). The reason for the amendment is the judgment of the Constitutional Court, which concluded that the above-mentioned judgment was of the opinion. the article is incompatible with the basic law. The judges indicated in the statement of reasons that the Social Insurance Institution, as a specialised public body, should carry out its control tasks in the field of social security without undue delay, since it has the appropriate tools to achieve this objective. At the same time, it was considered that the Social Insurance Institution was not too eager to enforce claims, although on the other hand it was always very meticulous - the reason: although the main amount was symbolic, interest was no longer. The reason for the problems of insured persons was that the Social Insurance Institution started to count the statute only after its decision was made, and this is because the funds for unduly collected benefits are subject to an statute of 10 years from the date of the decision establishing those entitlements. This also meant that the insurance was practically in an impossible situation. Moreover, the legislator did not specify the time between the payment of the last of these benefits and the date by which the authority may issue the above decision. In practice, the proposed amendment will mean protecting the certainty and stability of the legal order and excluding claims from the pension body which, in view of the significant expiry of the period from the date of their creation at the time of completion, would be separated from the actual situation of the insured person. Therefore, the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party will vote in favour of this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u119	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, Circle of Members of Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u120	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the government proposal for a law amending the Act on the Social Security System. In the current legal state, those who unduly collect social security benefits are obliged to pay them back. The reimbursement of amounts unduly collected may be requested by the pension authorities for a period of 12 months or 3 years, depending on whether the person collecting them informs the paying authority of the benefit in question. According to the provisions in force, the period after which the amounts due for the benefits unduly collected have expired shall be 10 years. However, this is the time calculated from the moment the pension authority issued the return decision. The deadline for such a decision is currently not set. In this draft law, designers propose to set this deadline to 5 years. While there is no doubt that those who have unduly taken social security benefits must be obliged to pay them back, I consider the solution proposed by the applicants to be beneficial. This is because the cases in which 5 or 10 years after the event it appears to be the decision to reimburse the benefits unduly received, especially if the event was due to the pension authority. In order to clarify the current arrangements, it is necessary to introduce this regulation relating to the rules for the recovery of claims by pension authorities. The Free and Solidarni Circle will vote in favour of the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u121	Thank you very much, Member. Five Members joined the questions. Anyone else want to join this list? If not, I'm closing the list. Mr Jarosław Gonciusz will be the first question to be asked. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u122	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! According to the current provisions, claims for unduly collected benefits are valid after 10 years, whereas in the draft law this period is reduced to 5 years. I would like to ask what was the percentage of benefits unduly received in the last five years and what has been in the last 10 years. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u123	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Jack Osuch, the Law and Justice Club. I'm inviting another person. Mrs Barbara Bartus, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u124	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Social Insurance Act dates back to October 1998, which has been in force since 1 January 1999, which is almost 20 years. This law has many amendments. Further articles with letters are added. This bill also has many gaps. Today we're talking about closing one legal gap. But when it comes to reimbursement of contributions and art. 24, which has been amended many times, in my opinion, there is also a lot of confusion. And I have a question for the Minister. There is work on changes in the social security system, of course we hear about it only from the media, but we hear it. I have a question: Is the Ministry planning to write a whole new law on social security? Or a different-sounding name? Will the current law remain [[♪ The bell ♪]] Replaced by a new one? Because it still requires a lot of revision, even after the many. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u125	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Waldemar Buda, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u126	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! A short, uncomplicated project, and how necessary. We all know that because we met with people who came to us at the Members' Offices, who presented a problem of this kind, where, after years, debts were incurred in cases that had been forgotten for a long time. However, my question is this: How many of those decisions which determine the wrongly received benefits are the result of an error of officials, and what percentage is the result of the error of those who have received them? Because I've met with cases where most of the time it's a bad analysis of documents and the granting of the benefit was a mistake on the office's side, and then all of the premeditated claims were recovered. Of course, any requests for remission were not accepted and were not taken into account. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u127	Thank you very much, sir. The last question will be asked by Iwona Michalek, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u128	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, it is undisputed that the person who took the wrong benefit must return it, that is clear. I have a question: What is the scale of the wrongly received benefits and what are the most common causes of such actions? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u129	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I would like to ask the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Mr Marcin Zielenecki for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u130	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank the committee for its efficient and substantive work on the government bill amending the Social Insurance Act. The course of today's discussion on this bill shows that the issue of this amendment is not controversial. Representatives of all parliamentary clubs considered that there was a need to amend the Social Security Act in this regard. So that I would also like to thank all the representatives of all the parliamentary clubs for this unanimity. I would like to address the questions raised during the discussion. So, as far as the scale of the problem is concerned, because the two questions concerned the scale of the problem that we want to solve by amending the Social Security Act, I can give you the 2015 data. It can be said that we want to solve a problem which, in the vast majority of cases, concerns short-term benefits, in particular situations where a person is applying for a pension or pension, presents documents and the Social Insurance Institution on the basis of the attached documents, stating that during a period of insurance often distant from the time at which the insured person applies for a pension, such person has unduly collected sickness benefits, short-term benefits. Since there has been no time limit so far, the Social Insurance Institution could have issued a decision declaring the benefit unduly collected at the time of the application for pension and could have applied to the insured person for reimbursement of the benefit. Thus, in 2015 for short-term benefits, the Social Insurance Institution issued 507 decisions on the reimbursement of unduly collected benefits, decisions relating to a longer period than 5 years from the last day of the unduly collected benefit. This number of decisions represents 5.1% the total decision to reimburse unduly collected short-term benefits. This is therefore not a large-scale problem. On the other hand, as regards the value of benefits received on the basis of such decisions, these are benefits amounting to 1200 000. zł, which represents 3.7% the total amount of short-term benefits unduly collected. As far as long-term benefits are concerned, the share of such decisions, decisions taken 5 years after the receipt of the benefit, is negligible, does not even amount to 0,5% the total decision to reimburse unduly collected long-term benefits. As far as the possible issue of the new Social Security Act is concerned, I agree that this law has been amended several times, that many new laws were of a nature, I would say, even amending the existing provisions of this law, right? If we recall a law introducing new rules for the functioning of open pension funds and new rules for the transfer of contributions to these funds, we will notice that we have had a change in the foundations of the social security system. At the moment, work on a project or a law that would somehow violate the existing basic principles, the principles set out in the Social Security Act, are not taking place. So that at the moment we are not planning to issue a new law on the social security system. That's all I can say. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u131	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government draft law amending the Act on Employment Promotion and Employment Market Institutions and the Act on Pre-retirement Benefits (Prints Nos 804 and 857). I ask Mrs Beata Mazurek to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u132	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs a position on the report of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Print No 857 on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Employment Promotion and Employment Market Institutions and the Act on Pre-retirement Benefits from Print No 804. This short but very important amendment, meeting the expectations of carers of persons with disabilities, gives the possibility to acquire the right to unemployment benefits and the pre-retirement benefit by persons who have received care or special care benefits in connection with the care of a disabled person. This solution applies to persons who have lost their right to benefits or benefits in connection with the death of the person to whom care was provided. The purpose of the proposed measures is due to the fact that we want to treat the period of care for a disabled person in a similar way to the period of employment. The provision of benefits or benefits to the caretaker of a disabled person is a partial compensation for termination of employment, and therefore it is appropriate to treat this form of activity similarly to employment as regards the possibility of receiving unemployment benefits or retirement benefits after the loss of care benefits for the disabled person. On behalf of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, I request that the report submitted in print No 857 be adopted. The project did not cause any controversy and there is financial security for it. I hope the whole Sejm will accept such a solution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u133	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Bożena Borys-Raccoon, Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u134	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I took part in the honour of presenting the position of the club Law and Justice on the Act amending the Act on Employment Promotion and Employment Market Institutions and the Act on Pre-retirement Benefits. This draft of changes is primarily a response to the expectations of those taking care of people with disabilities. It introduces the possibility of acquiring a right to unemployment benefit and a pre-retirement benefit by persons who have received a care allowance or a special care allowance under the Law of 28 November 2003 on family benefits or guardian benefits under the Act of 4 April 2014 on the establishment and payment of care benefits in connection with the custody of a disabled person and who have lost that right in connection with the death of the person they have been caring for. The Law and Justice Club supports the validity of this arrangement, which recognises that the term of care for persons with disabilities should be treated as if the period of employment was up to 365 days entitlement to the right to unemployment benefit or the period of entitlement to the right to pre-retirement benefit. Both demographic and social considerations support the need for the envisaged and proposed solutions. An advanced circle of people is expanding, often linked to a loss of full fitness, and care for loved ones is the best solution for those in need of care. This involves giving up work by carers who should be appreciated and supported, sufficient state aid. The Law and Justice Club fully supports the proposed changes and will vote in favour of them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u135	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Ewa Drozd, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u136	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club vis-à-vis the draft law amending the Act on Employment Promotion and Employment Market Institutions and the Act on Pre-retirement Benefits. High Izbo! As we have already heard, this amendment introduces the possibility of acquiring the right to unemployment benefit and a pre-retirement benefit by persons who have taken care of the disabled person and who have lost their right to that benefit or benefit in connection with the death of the person over whom they have taken care. This is undoubtedly a step in the right direction, as they are helped to adapt to new living conditions, often after many years of exclusion from the labour market. This will allow these people to find themselves in new social and economic circumstances, and this is extremely difficult, which is why the idea of the proposed changes is appropriate and certainly expected, because the care provided is certainly work. However, the expectations of the environments concerned differ from those of the proposed changes, which is why they raise a lot of doubts about which different associations speak and signal them, as they are very narrowing down the group of actors to which support is directed. This is a fraction of the total number of persons taking care of a disabled person. That's why questions arise. Are these changes really designed to provide comprehensive, reliable and professional help to adapt to new living conditions and return to the labour market for those who, for various reasons, not only those included in this project, have to give up taking care of their people? The Constitutional Tribunal has already committed the government to equalise the right to a special welfare allowance of the same amount regardless of the duration of disability. Is the government, Minister, prepared to execute this sentence? Are the funds secured for this next year's budget? Looks like you didn't. You continue to differentiate the types of benefits in the project, which is why the Act does not necessarily enter into force on 1 January 2017. This is the date from which the care provision for carers of persons with disabilities up to 18 years of age will be as low as the lowest salary. Contributions will also be paid, so it will not be a problem to obtain unemployment benefits. This possibility will not be given to people who, for other reasons than the death of the subject, will not be able to take advantage of this possibility, although they have been taking care of it for many years. It should also be noted that the execution of the judgment would allow a comprehensive solution to the problem. Often, in your statements, Minister, you justify such a form of the bill, the lack of information about the scale of the problem, the number of people who stop caring for other reasons than the death of the subject during the year. So have you taken action to obtain this information? As I recall, you did not have such problems with lack of information in the campaign, presenting a package of laws in a blue folder that was supposed to solve all the problems from hand. Despite these doubts and the lack of a comprehensive solution to the problem, we will vote in favour because, as I said before, it is a step, or perhaps a step in the right direction. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u137	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Jarosław Porwich, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u138	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Kukiz Club15, I have the honour to present my position on the government proposal for a law amending the Act on Employment Promotion and Employment Market Institutions and the Act on Pre-retirement Benefits, print No. 804. The proposed amendment introduces the possibility of acquiring a right to unemployment benefit and a pre-retirement benefit by persons who have received a care allowance or a special care allowance under the Law of 28 November 2003 on family benefits or guardian benefit under the Law of 4 April 2014 on the establishment and payment of care benefits for carers in connection with the care of a disabled person and who have lost their right to this benefit or benefit in connection with the death of the person to whom care was provided. We know well that taking care of a disabled person is hard work 24 hours a day and 7 days a week. The period of care for disabled persons should be treated in the same way as that of any other worker. Therefore, the introduction of the possibility to include this period of care for the disabled up to 365 days to acquire the right to unemployment benefit, as well as the period of entitlement to the right to pre-retirement benefit, is a necessary and expected solution by many Poles, because those who resign to care for the disabled after the death of a disabled person, returning to the labour market often after long absence from it, have virtually no income or livelihoods. The explanatory memorandum to the bill states: Social and demographic considerations are also in favour of the proposed solution. In the absence of a systemic solution to the identified issues of care for disabled persons, the ageing and sick take-over by those close to care and the dismissal of work, which would otherwise be possible for carers, should be appreciated and supported by sufficient State aid. The direction of the changes contained in the bill is positive because it is prosocial, but one can also ask itself why this privilege will be granted only if the loss of the right to this benefit or the benefit is due to the death of the person over whom care was exercised. There are also various other situations leading to the loss of these benefits, not just the death of a disabled person. It must be made clear that the proposed solutions do not constitute sufficient State aid, as stated in the explanatory memorandum. It's just a drop in the sea of needs. We believe that people taking care of people with disabilities should be dealt with in a comprehensive way. However, although, to some extent, the draft amendment of the law meets social expectations. Therefore, the Kukiz Club15 considers it appropriate to introduce such a solution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u139	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Joanna Augustynowska, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u140	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The state-of-the-art law amending the Employment Promotion Act and the Employment Market Institutions Act and the Pre-retirement Benefits Act welcomes the state-of-the-art proposal. The proposed amendment makes it possible to obtain unemployment benefits or pre-retirement benefits for carers who have lost their status in connection with the death of their subjects, subject to the fulfilment of statutory conditions relating primarily to the term of care. The conditions for the acquisition of the right to pre-retirement benefit for men and women are maintained, and it is actually the heart that rejoices that in this case the government was gracious in the justification of the project to recognise, more, to rely on the judicial achievements of the Constitutional Tribunal. It is pleased that you also take these decisions into account. Anyone who has come into contact with a difficult subject of care for a person with disabilities is aware, ladies and gentlemen, of how hard and responsible this work is, comparable to other professions, to other renunciations, to various other burdens, but disproportionately profitable compared to other occupations in the labour market. It is morally appropriate to treat it in the same way as employment in respect of the possibility of acquiring a right to a benefit or a pre-retirement benefit in the event of a loss of the right to a care allowance, a care allowance or a guardian's allowance. The State should take on the burden of helping people who, for many, many years, work activity is simply excluded for the purpose of caring for persons with disabilities. For obvious reasons, the return of such people to the labour market, especially in the pre-retirement age, is significantly difficult or practically impossible. We are also talking about a change that will affect almost a quarter of a million people, about a change whose cost in the decade is estimated at almost a billion zlotys. It is pleased that the government takes account of expenditure from the Labour Fund, which demonstrates - it is a pity that so selectively - in the justification of this particular project. However, the consultation report is read with great concern. It is not even a question of the fact that the answers to the questions of the parties consulted are largely one-to-one. I am more concerned about how often the social partners' reasonable proposals are rejected because we do not have the data needed to assess the financial impact of their implementation. It's just unacceptable. How do you want to manage and stimulate the whole system of solutions if you cannot measure, evaluate or calculate it in any way? I also share some of the concerns expressed in the opinions of the project consultants. Will we not then discriminate against those who have lost custody as a result of events other than death? Will it not be the consequence of the amendment of the law that the legal situation of persons who have been found in a very similar situation of life for a variety of reasons? Despite these doubts, I consider that the partial amendment of the rules in this matter is better than the status quo, and therefore the Modern will vote in favour of this law. Nevertheless, I ask the Ministry to take these concerns into account in the further work of the Ministry on this subject. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u141	Thank you, Member. Before you speak, Mr Krystian Jarubas, Polish People's Party, I wanted to welcome the students from Primary School No. 14 in Lublin who are listening to our discussions today. [[Applause]] Welcome. Now you're very welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u142	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I am pleased to present my position on the report of the committee on the government bill amending the Act on employment promotion and employment market institutions and the Act on pre-retirement benefits, prints no. 804 and 857. Ladies and gentlemen! The subject matter of our work is the provision that persons receiving care services, welfare benefits or welfare benefits after the death of the subject will be entitled to unemployment benefits and pre-retirement benefits. Such a record is supported by different environments, trade unions and NGOs. It is difficult to disagree with the amendments proposed by the applicants. In many cases, caring for people with disabilities requires carers to give up their jobs. As a result, after death, the person they take care of is often left without means to live. The carers, even though they quit their job, actually work around the clock. What else do you call taking care of the sick or the disabled? This job, this care should be treated as a full-time professional activity. It certainly should not be a reason for exclusion from the labour market. Thanks to the proposed changes, carers could register at the employment office and receive benefits, benefit from traineeships, trainings, courses, grants and loans to start their own business. An important element of the proposed provisions is also the issue of older people, who are of pre-retirement age. The novel also contains the conditions that should be met by a person wishing to apply for a pre-retirement benefit. Registration at the employment office within 60 days of the date of cessation of the right to provide care and prior continuous collection for at least one year and the age criterion we consider to be real conditions to be met. These are certainly not barricade conditions. One last question, funds. According to estimates for 2017 and 2027, approximately PLN 1 million will have to be allocated to these forms of aid from the Labour Fund. It is estimated that around 122 000 will benefit from this support during this period. persons. We understand that money for this purpose will be properly secured. Given that this project was created at a time when the Minister of Labour was Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, President of the Polish People's Party, the club of the Polish People's Party will vote for this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u143	Thank you very much, sir. Małgorzata Zwierzan, near Free and Solidarni, takes the last floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u144	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarni Circle, I present my position towards the government's draft law amending the Act on Employment Promotion and Employment Market Institutions and the Act on Pre-Miertal Benefits. This bill meets the expectations of disabled people's environments and their carers. The provisions of this project provide for the right to unemployment benefit to be acquired and the benefit of pre-retirement carers who, in connection with the death of their subjects, have lost their right to receive care allowance, special care allowance or care allowance. The solution proposed by the applicants is appropriate for a number of reasons. First of all, it is a partial compensation for persons who, because of the need to take permanent care of disabled or dependent persons, are faced with forced termination of their professional activities. Thanks to the proposed regulation, this form of activity in terms of the possibility of receiving unemployment benefits and pre-retirement benefits will be treated equally with professional activities. An additional argument in favour of this project is that we are an ageing society. It is estimated that over 20% of people in Poland will be retired in 2030. This is directly linked to the fact that more and more people will depend on their families and more and more will take on the role of carer in the workplace. The proposed regulations respond to this, partly reducing the negative impact of the ageing population. Despite a number of positive developments, it is clear that the proposed provisions do not provide a comprehensive solution to the current situation. The criteria adopted to allow carers to receive unemployment benefits or pre-retirement benefits do not take into account all possible reasons why they may have to stop taking care of a disabled or dependent person. I therefore accept the proposed regulations as a good change and a promise for the future of the government's fruitful work for people with disabilities and their carers. The Free and Solidarni Circle will vote in favour of the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u145	Thank you very much, Member. Are there still Members who want to enlist? If not, I'm closing the list. As your first question, Mr Bartłomiej Stawiarski, Club Law and Justice. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u146	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The law we are talking about here is certainly a step in the right direction, and we all agree on it, but I have this question: Does the resort provide for those people who often return to employment offices after long absence from the labour market, register as unemployed, some additional range of activation tools, or are they supposed to move in the employment office only within this unemployment benefit or special care allowance? As we know, labour offices have a whole range of instruments that aim to activate unemployed people. Will these people move within the framework of those instruments that have employment offices, or will they be created any new ones? Some of these mechanisms, as we see in the example of recent actions, e.g. the directing of the long-term unemployed to the agencies they were supposed to be looking for work has proved to be completely ineffective. So that we could use it here, too, except for unemployment benefits and support. [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the form of welfare benefits, some other mechanisms. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u147	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, the Law and Justice Club. There's no envoy. The next person, Mr Jacek Osuch, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u148	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! I am convinced that the period of care for disabled persons must be treated in the same way as the period of employment in terms of the possibility to pass that period up to 365 days to acquire the right to unemployment benefit as well as the period of entitlement to the right to pre-retirement benefit. The purpose of receiving care, special care allowance or care allowance is to partially compensate for the termination of work due to the need for permanent care of a disabled family member. It is therefore appropriate for the legislator to treat this form of activity as employment in terms of entitlement to unemployment benefits and pre-retirement benefits. I therefore ask the Minister: What age criteria have been adopted for women and men on this issue. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and outside the metric criterion have been imposed on applicants for other strings? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u149	Thank you very much. I ask Mr Waldemar Buda, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u150	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, I would like to ask about the financial consequences of the proposed law, because in this descriptive part of the justification we can find information broken down by years, that in 2017, for example, it is 64 million PLN. On the other hand, I have doubts as to whether this is indeed a financial result, whether this applies to all those receiving unemployment benefits and pre-retirement benefits. I would like to ask you about this estimated number of people who would benefit from this right. How it was calculated, i.e. are these all the persons who receive benefits in those years, or are those who we expect to be entitled to benefits or benefits after the loss of this benefit in connection with the care of the person closest to you? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u151	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to ask Mrs Iwona Michalek, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u152	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! For many years, carers of disabled people have failed to pay attention to the need to take into account the period of care of the disabled in relation to the period of employment and to ask for it. This project, of course, meets these expectations. The explanatory memorandum indicates the estimated amounts of expenditure for 2017 and 2026 from the Labour Fund for the implementation of these amendments. I wanted to ask you on what basis these amounts were determined. I also wanted to ask the Minister whether there are known reasons why the previous government failed to comply with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, which was recently referred to by a Member of the Civic Platform here today. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u153	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Mark Polak, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u154	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ministers! The project we are debating today is a very good proposal and in my opinion it contains reasonable and expected solutions. But using the Minister's presence, I wanted to ask whether the resort is considering solutions or working on them so that people who have worked for at least 40 years can go to pre-retirement benefits for reasons not only on the employer's side but also of their own free will. I ask because we often have an opinion that such convenience or privilege after 40 years of work should be generally available. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u155	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u156	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask the Minister to confirm families who take long-term care of disabled children that this solution will help them in a dramatic situation - the death of the child. I often dealt with the families of children who had muscle atrophy or other conditions, where often the father could not endure the mental pressure associated with these family problems, and the mother remained alone for many years, caring for the child. ♪ Like this at the moment ♪ [[♪ The bell ♪]] The child's death was a loss of opportunity not only to return to work but also to find a suitable place in the labour market. I would like to hear if her situation will improve as a result of this solution. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u157	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Ewa Drozd, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u158	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Of course, I have expressed my opinion on this law. I am in favour, although this is not a comprehensive solution. We all know that, too. Therefore, my question: Aren't you afraid that people who have been left out in this project by applying this criterion will challenge this law to the Constitutional Court? Because whatever we look at, it's a very different environment that, at least it says so, does the same job. This criterion will result in enormous differentiation. Aren't you afraid this bill will go to the Constitutional Court? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u159	Thank you very much, Member. That's all the questions. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Minister Stanisław Swed. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u160	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much to all the clubs for supporting this initiative. Maybe I'll refer to the club appearances first. Let me remind you that, of course, this is not a comprehensive solution to the problem of carers of people with disabilities. We know that for many years we have been trying to regulate this with different results. In previous coalitions, we had a situation where care services were completely released. This resulted in a huge increase in the number of people who later received care services. That's where there was another attempt to regulate it. Special care allowance was introduced for adults, then there was a judgment of the Constitutional Court, a welfare allowance, but this does not actually solve the problem. We are still in the process of looking for good solutions, and I think that in this Parliament we must find such solutions, because that is what people, carers of disabled people are waiting for. To answer this first question: yes, right now the government is working in two teams. The first team within our ministry - issues concerning the caretakers of people with disabilities. The aim is to find comprehensive solutions, to settle cases concerning both the implementation of the Constitutional Tribunal judgment and the improvement of the situation especially for carers of adults who benefit from a special welfare allowance. Today is a profit criterion. Today this amount is PLN 520. Of course, we have issues relating to the carers of disabled people. Here we do not change the rules: it was 1300 PLN, and from the first, after valorization, it will be 1400 PLN. This issue remains unchanged. The second, extremely important issue that, to talk about regulating the first part about caring for people with disabilities... This is a matter of case law. There's an interministerial team called. If we don't get this right, we're not gonna do a new system of case law, we're not gonna solve this first problem. The first issue that needs to be settled is a matter of case law, and there is a chance that this case will then be fully settled. Of course, funds must be provided in the state budget, because here there is full agreement: there must be the care of the state for these people. This amendment is only in one area - concerning the Act on the Promotion of Employment and Employment Market Institutions and Care Services. She solves in some way matters concerning the employment of persons who, due to the death of their subjects, have remained without anything. In this case they will be able to obtain the right either to unemployment benefit, and later consistently use all the instruments that are offered at work offices, or this - after fulfilling the conditions, i.e. woman: 55 years old, man: 60 years old, suitable internship: 20 years old and 25 years old - to provide care. This is the moment. What are the population estimates? Of course, in the explanatory memorandum it is written out how it was estimated. Of course, these are prognosis. We estimate that this applies to people who could potentially die, and for that reason this right will be granted. We figured it out at 30%. Of course, the amount of more than PLN 1 billion may seem high, but I remind you that it is 10 years. If we are talking about over PLN 30 million on average for pre-retirement benefits, it is not much. In the first year, when it comes to pre-retirement benefits - there will be no amount, because this condition must be met - and unemployment benefits, we estimate that this is at the level of 60 billion zlotys, such funds would be allocated to it. So that such solutions are in this respect. We do not foresee a change at the moment - Mr Marek Polak asked about this - about a different approach to pre-retirement benefits. We maintain the rules which are at the moment, i.e. the person whose workplace or workplace is being liquidated, in this case he may benefit from the right to care services. I don't think so, Mrs... Here is the question of appeal to the Constitutional Court. Let's give those people who haven't had it a chance. Of course, as I said at the beginning, this is not a comprehensive solution. This is a solution for the labour market, pre-retirement benefits. We are working on a comprehensive solution so as to prepare it both in the area of case law... The Member perfectly remembers that we have been talking about this for many years and that we cannot deal with it without this system. This system would once again go to us, in colloquial terms, and we couldn't control it again, and that's important because it has to be allocated from the state budget. The second point is, as I said, the regulation of this system, which today is scattered, because, as far as this system is concerned, there is another issue which also needs to be regulated. It is a matter of people who are retired because of their children's disability and whose benefit is lower than the benefit which is currently received by those who care for children up to 18 years of age. In this respect, too. We need to sort this out. This solution, as I said, concerns only the labour market, pre-retirement benefits, and this is a step, as I have said many times here, in the right direction, in order to make it easier for those who have taken care of both the return to the labour market and the use of pre-retirement benefits. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u161	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the report by the Commission for European Union Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on ratification of the enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Kazakhstan, of the other part, drawn up at Astana on 21 December 2015 (prints No 817 and 869). I ask Mrs Barbara Bartus to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u162	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present a report by the Commission for European Union Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on ratification of the enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Kazakhstan, of the other part, drawn up at Astana on 21 December 2015, print No 817. The bill entered the Sejm on 25 July this year. It concerns the consent of the Polish Sejm to ratify the agreement with Kazakhstan by the President of the Republic of Poland. The ratification of the agreement is intended to reflect efforts to deepen cooperation in three key areas: cooperation in foreign and security policy, economic cooperation, sectoral cooperation, financial and technical cooperation and cooperation in migration, environment, transport, education, IT, agriculture, rural development and others. The enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Kazakhstan, of the other part, shall enter into force on the first day of the second month following the date on which the last party informs the depositary of the completion of the legal procedures necessary for this purpose. This is a mixed agreement. Until its entry into force, it must be approved by the European Union only after the ratification of the Agreement by all Member States and the Republic of Kazakhstan. The ratification procedures of the Agreement have already been completed by the Republic of Kazakhstan and by the European Union - Latvia. The entry into force of the agreement vis-à-vis Poland will not result in the need to change Polish law, it will not have social or financial consequences. The agreement should activate bilateral economic contacts and social dialogue and thus increase the economic presence of Polish companies in Kazakhstan. On 22 September this year. first reading was carried out at the joint committee meeting. After the discussion, and the discussion concerned not only the cooperation of the European Union with Kazakhstan, Poland and Kazakhstan, but also the situation of Kazakhstan itself, democracy in Kazakhstan, we also had the opportunity to talk about the recent visit of the President of Kazakhstan, Mr Nazarbayev, in Poland and the resulting agreements concerning our cooperation. Commissions, joint committees... After considering the draft law, the Joint Committees: for European Union and Foreign Affairs unanimously recommend that the draft law be adopted without amendments. The committee's report is contained in print No 869. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u163	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Piotr Pyzik, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u164	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The signing of the agreement with Kazakhstan on 21 December 2015 confirms the vitality and relevance of the eastern dimension of the European Union's foreign policy and, within it, creates a field for strengthening the political dialogue between Poland and Kazakhstan and implementing the priorities of Polish foreign policy. It will complement Poland's active policy towards the European Union's eastern neighbours in Central Asia, notably as part of a wide range of activities related to the Eastern Partnership. The ratification of the agreement will reflect efforts to deepen cooperation in three key areas determining the specific role of Kazakhstan in the European Union's relations with the region of Central Asia. The first point is the issue of political dialogue and cooperation in the field of foreign and security policy. Kazakhstan, aspiring to the role of regional leader, is very active in the international arena, including the political dialogue between Kazakhstan and the European Union. The issue of Russian-Chinese relations in the context of Russia's deteriorating relations with the West will be an important factor affecting the situation of Kazakhstan. The importance and role of China in the Kremlin policy seems to be growing, which could lead Russia to take into account China's strategic interests in Central Asia and may prove beneficial for Kazakhstan. From the perspective of Kazakhstan, China, and not the West, are the only factor capable of mitigating Russia in Central Asia and thus providing Astana with a room for manoeuvre in relations with the Kremlin. The test for Russian-Chinese relations will be the fate and nature of the interaction between the Chinese concept of the transport corridor The new Silk Road and the Russian Eurasian Union, the key element of which is Kazakhstan. The third point is economic cooperation. Kazakhstan is a country with the largest economy in the Central Asia region, characterised since the 2005 economic crisis by a stable, few percent growth in GDP, huge raw material resources and a large potential which seems to be a challenge for our side. I will mention here another aspect of this agreement, which is the issue of sectoral cooperation. The agreement contains extensive provisions on specific areas of cooperation, such as financial and technical cooperation, migration, environment, transport, education, IT, tourism, agriculture, rural development and others, will improve the legal basis for cooperation in these areas. We expect this to stimulate Kazakhstan's gradual adoption of European standards. This will facilitate interaction, improve transparency and predictability. Work on and signature of the agreement and entry into force are an expression of the political will of the EU Party [[♪ The bell ♪]] and Kazakh to deepen cooperation, which is compatible with the interests of Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u165	Thank you very much. The next vote was to be taken by Mr. Michael Szczerba. I don't see him in the O.R. I ask Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u166	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On 21 December 2015, the Astana Agreement on enhanced partnership and cooperation between the European Union and its Member States and the Republic of Kazakhstan was signed. This agreement is very important in terms of strengthening the EU's ties with the Republic of Kazakhstan and opening Europe to the East. It is also of particular importance to our country. It will enable the cooperation of the Republic of Poland with the Republic of Kazakhstan to be extended and the main directions of our foreign policy implemented. It should be stressed that Kazakhstan is the first midwife in Central Asia to sign such an agreement. This is due to the fact that he is the most politically stable country in the region of Central Asia and is becoming a leader among the countries of the region in terms of relations with Europe. This agreement reflects this particular role of Kazakhstan in relation to the relations between the Central Asian countries and the European Union. This Agreement aims to strengthen cooperation in various areas. The first of these areas is political dialogue and cooperation in the field of foreign and security policy. The aim is to broaden the framework for existing cooperation on foreign and security policy, in particular on a regional basis, through specific border security, the fight against drug smuggling, illegal migration, crisis management, the prevention of terrorism and the reconstruction of Afghanistan's structures. The ratification of this Agreement will enable Kazakhstan to be opened up to the European Union and to give its country European policies and to democratise and strengthen the rule of law in the Republic of Kazakhstan. Economic cooperation is another area. This is due to the fact that Kazakhstan is a country with huge economic potential and is characterised by the largest economy in the Central Asia region. It should be stressed that strengthening relations between Kazakhstan and the European Union is very important for our country, because Poland is ranked 7th among the countries of the European Union when it comes to imports from Kazakhstan and 5th among exporters to this country. This agreement is a solid foundation for cooperation not only between all EU countries and Kazakhstan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u167	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Paweł Beja, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u168	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Kazakhstan, of the other part, is a document on cooperation between the European Union and third countries outside the countries covered by the Eastern Partnership programme. The Agreement clarifies and extends the framework for cooperation in the field of foreign and security policy. It provides tools to deepen and intensify political dialogue with Kazakhstan, including the development of democracy, the rule of law and the construction of the rule of law. Such cooperation facilitates Kazakhstan's adoption of European standards, which also corresponds to the interests of Poland. The agreement favours systemic modernisation in Kazakhstan, while in the foreign policy dimension it strengthens the multisectorality of Kazakhstan's foreign policy. The agreement is part of the process of strengthening the independence and subjectivity of Kazakhstan, whose support belongs to the priorities of Poland in its policy towards the country. The agreement, emphasising the importance of democratisation and the construction of the rule of law and strengthening self-government, provides a positive basis for cooperation in the sharing of Polish experience on system transformation. It also fosters the strengthening of regional security dialogue, taking into account current threats from terrorism and extremism. The purpose of the agreement is to confirm the importance of Kazakhstan's relations with the European Union and to reaffirm the mutual political will to increase relations to a higher level. The conclusion of the agreement will contribute to strengthening the European direction of Kazakhstan's foreign policy, which is based on the principle of multisectoralism, i.e. balancing the influence of the main actors of the international scene in the region. It will also have a positive impact on the European Union's ability to have a selective impact on Kazakhstan's foreign and internal policies. The Agreement will enter into force and repeal the current Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States and the Republic of Kazakhstan, signed in Brussels on 23 January 1995. Poland considers Kazakhstan to be its most important partner in the Central Asia region. This is decided by the country's important economic potential, its strategic role in the region and by its ever-increasing international position. Poland, like the European Union, recognises that in terms of both economic potential, economic liberalism, political stability, importance and degree of international activity as well as openness and commitment to cooperation with the European Union, Kazakhstan has a leading position in Central Asia and is an irreplaceable partner in the region. Therefore, relations with Kazakhstan require that they be given a higher rank and included in the new legal formula. This role is fulfilled by this agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u169	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, near Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u170	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The implementation of the enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement between the European Union and Kazakhstan confirms the importance of its relations with the European Union, as well as the expression of bilateral political will to increase relations to a higher level. From the point of view of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the agreement is to emphasise its position in the European Union's relations with the Central Asian region. It should be assumed that ratification of the Agreement will contribute to strengthening the European direction of Kazakhstan's foreign policy, which is based on the principle of multi-vectoring, i.e. balancing the influence of the main actors of the international scene in the region. It will thus contribute positively to the strengthening of Kazakhstan's independence and subjectivity. This agreement confirms the vitality and relevance of the eastern dimension of the European Union's foreign policy, and within it it creates a field for intensifying the political dialogue between Poland and Kazakhstan and implementing the priorities of Polish foreign policy. It will complement Poland's active policy towards the European Union's eastern neighbours in Central Asia, notably as part of a wide range of activities related to the Eastern Partnership. Until its entry into force, the Agreement may only be applied provisionally by the European Union in the area of its exclusive competence and not by the Member States of the European Union. The Agreement establishes a political and trade cooperation mechanism between the European Union and its Member States and Kazakhstan. This mechanism shall be characterised by the reciprocity of rights and obligations and by the joint activities carried out by the bodies set up for that purpose, in accordance with certain procedures. In addition, the contract regulates matters regulated in the Republic of Poland by acts of statutory rank. Poland considers Kazakhstan to be its most important partner in the Central Asia region. This is decided by the country's important economic potential, its strategic role in the region and by its ever-increasing international position. The agreement clarifies and extends the framework for cooperation in the field of foreign and security policy, and security in this region of the world today seems to be paramount. The Free and Solidarnia Members' Circle is in favour of ratifying this agreement. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u171	Thank you very much, Member. Are there still Members who want to enlist? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, the Law and Justice Club. Question time: 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u172	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The explanatory memorandum states that due to the considerable potential of economic cooperation with Poland, Kazakhstan has been chosen by the Ministry of Economy one of five important forward markets alongside countries such as Algeria, Brazil, Canada and Turkey, for which a 3-year promotion programme is being implemented. Kazakhstan has also been included in three sectoral promotion programmes in areas such as construction, mining machinery and equipment, defence industry. I would therefore like to ask what the implementation of this programme looks like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u173	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Marcin Święcicki, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u174	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Kazakhstan is the highest degree agreement with the countries of the former Soviet Union, outside the Baltic countries and the Eastern Partnership countries. It is therefore an important agreement that improves economic relations, political cooperation, trade and mutual investment. And this is needed to bring Kazakhstan into orbit cooperation with the European Union to be closer to the European Union and to apply European standards. The Agreement also includes a chapter on cooperation in the field of democracy and the rule of law. And here we have a few questions: there is a provision there. [[♪ The bell ♪]] concerning that this cooperation is implemented through actions agreed by the parties. Isn't that gonna prevent you from claiming human rights in Kazakhstan? Because we still have a lot of political prisoners there, that I will mention Max Bakayev, Talget Ajana, Wadim Kuramszin, Aron Atabek, as well as Kazakhstan uses Interpol to prosecute its political opponents in other countries under the pretext of other crimes. I'm afraid...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u175	Proceed to the end, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u176	...this agreement will not interfere with the defence of human rights and the rule of law in Kazakhstan, and in particular the defence of the rights of those dissidents and those human rights fighters who are accused there under various pretenses and held with long-term prison sentences.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u177	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u178	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Kazakhstan, of the other part, is intended in particular to cover sectors such as education, migration, economic cooperation. I would like to ask whether, in this connection, there is a chance to use this agreement to strengthen relations between Poland and Poles from Kazakhstan, to strengthen links in this respect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u179	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Piotr Pyzik, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u180	Mrs. Marshal! I also wanted to ask about Poles in Kazakhstan, but a little bit in another aspect. Namely Poles in Kazakhstan in the lion's part are under the pastoral care of Polish monasteries and I would like to ask if this agreement in any way - of course positive - will affect their status, because the information that comes to me shows that teachers in Kazakhstan have very big problems - much bigger than in Poland - with the Kazakh bureaucracy regarding visas and visa renewal procedures, which teachers do not really have to do and they have to do. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u181	Thank you very much, sir. The questions will be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ms Renata Szczech. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u182	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for asking. I will try briefly to answer the questions asked. As regards economic cooperation - I would like to say that there could be a great deal of reference at the moment to examples of strengthening this cooperation, but I will focus briefly, Mr President, on the fact that - as you emphasised - Kazakhstan is the largest economy in the Central Asia region after the 2015 crisis. This is the third country in terms of turnover, a trading partner with Poland. In the European Union - you also mentioned this - Kazakhstan is at the forefront of trade partners, so it is worth highlighting this. The objective of the Agreement is to further strengthen, organise and improve the legal basis for this cooperation through extensive provisions on trade, customs matters, business conditions, the flow of intellectual capital, public procurement, competition and sustainable development, the resolution of trade disputes and many others. The implementation of these provisions will contribute to bringing Kazakhstan's standards closer to European standards and thus facilitate interaction. The economic cooperation between the parties to the Agreement is governed by Title III, where trade and business are concerned. I would like to mention here that the agreement makes the application of Title III conditional on Kazakhstan's membership of the World Trade Organisation. This membership became a fact of 30 November 2015. According to Art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council. Title III of the Agreement will apply from the date of its entry into force provided that Kazakhstan becomes a member of the World Trade Organisation by then. As regards the question of political dialogue, cooperation in the field of foreign and security policy, I would like to remind you that Kazakhstan aspires to the role of regional leader in this area. It is very active in the international arena, including political dialogue with the European Union and is one of the most intensive and effective countries in the region. Meetings at the European Union-Kazakh Summit are held regularly at semi-annual or annual intervals. President Nazarbayev's visit to Brussels, mentioned here, was preceded by the 15th meeting of the European Union-Kazakh Cooperation Committee in Astana on 10 March. The agreement will be a step towards further strengthening this dialogue. It will also give a new impetus to this dialogue on the gradual democratisation and construction of elements of the rule of law, taking into account the use of European experience, traditionally highly valued in Kazakhstan. Security issues are an important aspect of political cooperation. Kazakhstan as the strongest and most stable country in Central Asia is a solid and important partner of the European Union in regional security dialogue and cooperation, including border security, the fight against drug smuggling, illegal migration, crisis management, the prevention of terrorism and the reconstruction process of Afghanistan, which Kazakhstan is an important participant. For my part, I would like to add that the introduction of the provisions of this agreement will not result in the need to change the Polish legal order or any social or financial consequences. For what is very important, it will bring economic benefits for us through the activation of bilateral economic contacts and social dialogue, and thus will lead to an increase in the economic presence of Polish companies in Kazakhstan. With regard to the question of the Member of the European Union concerning Poles - the second question also involved this question - I would like to remind you that the Agreement on enhanced partnership and cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and the Republic of Kazakhstan, on the other hand is an agreement between the Union and not the Polish one... [[I'm aware of that.]] ...and the area of regulation of this agreement does not concern this issue. However, I would like to point out that the amended Act on the Polish Charter offers partly such opportunities here. Please note that the proposed amendment, which will enter into force, as I recall, on 1 January 2017, activated the Polish environments, among others. in this part of Asia, to benefit from the new framework, new regulations that are more preferential for Poles who are still settled there. At the same time, all these proposals are taken into account and the Communication Commission with Poles abroad analyses them in order to prepare new proposals for regulation in this area. However, Commissioner and I would like to point out that this is not an object or an area covered by this agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u183	Thank you very much, Minister. The rapporteur of the committee, Barbara Bartus, will yet speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u184	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Poland considers Kazakhstan to be one of the most important or most important partners in Central Asia, but what is more exciting is that Kazakhstan considers Poland to be its most important partner in the European Union. For this reason, we can be pleased and this is what President Nazarbayev's visit confirmed, and this was the discussion. It should be remembered that Kazakhstan is in a specific place and that democracy in Kazakhstan is completely different from ours. The subject which he raised here, when asking a question, was also discussed in our joint committees. I wanted to confirm once again that the state of democracy in Kazakhstan is an area of interest mainly in the OSCE, the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. The subject of Kazakhstan has already been considered in the OSCE Permanent Assembly Committee following the events that took place there in December 2011. The OSCE Parliamentary Assembly has the opportunity to reprimand States, to adopt resolutions - this is the right place. On the other hand, it seems that this agreement - we, for our part, are giving the President's permission here, i.e. by law we agree to ratification - can bring only benefits, and will not, to any extent, result in any restriction on the perception or investigation of the rights of the people of Kazakhstan, opposition activists in Kazakhstan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u185	Thank you very much, Member. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u186	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Kazakhstan is the richest and most developed country in Central Asia. For Europe, he is an important trading and investment partner. The European Union is the largest source of private foreign investment for this country. It has more than 40% of Kazakhstan's trade turnover. It is also the most important recipient of Kazakh exports, with more than 52% of the value of deliveries. If we consider our bilateral relations, then according to the Kazakh 2015 data. Poland is one of the main European partners of Kazakhstan, taking the leading position in terms of volume of trade in goods from Central and Eastern European countries. We are 11th among the countries of the European Union and 23rd among the countries of the world. Kazakhstan took ninth place in 2015 in terms of Polish exports to Asian countries. It is a country with a large export potential for Poland, and for many Polish companies it is one of the main markets. Polish entrepreneurs increasingly cooperate with local partners on the basis of joint industrial enterprises. Many of them are leaders in their industries. In Kazakhstan there are registered about 190 companies with Polish capital and about 2 thousand. companies involved in trade with this country. This data partially predisposes us to being a bridge between Central and Eastern Europe and Astana. All those who hope in Kazakhstan hope that the recent visit of President Nazarbayev and the signing of the declaration of economic cooperation will only deepen our relationship. In 2017, Astana will host the world exhibition EXPO. The theme of the event will be the Future Energy. Kazakhstan has allocated an enormous amount of 1.5 billion dollars to prepare and conduct this event. It is estimated that about 5 million visitors will visit the exhibition. It will be the first such event organised by the state of the former Soviet Union and it will take place in Astana. This is undoubtedly evidence of our partner's modernity and openness to cooperation. Kazakhstan is not covered by the Eastern Partnership agreement with the European Union, so signing the agreement we are leaning on today will increase the contacts between both sides to a level higher. The last agreement was signed in 1995, in a completely different geopolitical and economic reality. The conclusion of this agreement is necessary because of the intensity of the relations that exist today on the Kazakhstan-Europe line, and will undoubtedly also bring tangible benefits to our country and our investors.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u187	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present our position on the report of the European Union Committee on Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on ratification of the enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and the Republic of Kazakhstan on the other. Kazakhstan has become the first country in the region of Central Asia to sign such an agreement with the European Union. It is the most ambitious document on cooperation between the European Union and third countries, outside the countries covered by the Eastern Partnership programme. The purpose of its signature for Kazakhstan was to reaffirm the importance of its relations with the European Union, as well as its bilateral political will to increase relations to a higher level. From the point of view of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the agreement is to emphasise its position in the European Union's relations with the Central Asian region. The agreement will express its desire to deepen cooperation in three key areas determining the specific role of Kazakhstan in the European Union's relations with the region of Central Asia. These include: political dialogue and cooperation in the field of foreign and security policy, economic cooperation and sectoral cooperation (financial and technical cooperation, migration, environment, transport, education, information technology, agriculture, rural development and others). The signing of a new type agreement with Kazakhstan on 21 December 2015 confirms the vitality and relevance of the EU's eastern dimension of foreign policy, and in the framework of it creates a field for strengthening the political dialogue between Poland and Kazakhstan and implementing the priorities of Polish foreign policy. It will complement Poland's active policy towards the EU's eastern neighbours in Central Asia (mainly as part of a wide range of actions related to the Eastern Partnership). The signing of the contract and its subsequent entry into force are in line with the principles and objectives of the policy of the Republic of Poland towards Kazakhstan. High Izbo! Poland considers Kazakhstan to be its most important partner in the Central Asia region. This is decided by the country's important economic potential, its strategic role in the region, and its ever-increasing international position. Poland, like the EU, recognises that in terms of both economic potential, economic liberalism, political stability, importance and international activity, as well as openness and commitment to cooperation with the EU, Kazakhstan has a leading position in Central Asia and is an indispensable partner in the region. The Agreement clarifies and extends the framework for cooperation in the field of foreign and security policy, provides tools to deepen and intensify political dialogue with Kazakhstan, including the development of democracy, the rule of law and the construction of the rule of law. The entry into force of the Agreement will facilitate economic contacts between the EU and Kazakhstan. This is particularly important for Poland, which gives priority to economic cooperation in relations with Kazakhstan. Kazakhstan is Poland's main economic partner in Central Asia. Among EU countries, Poland is the seventh importer from Kazakhstan and the fifth exporter to the country. The implementation of the agreement can be a factor conducive to the reform and modernisation of the Kazakh economy, and in the longer term will contribute to improving the investment climate in Kazakhstan. The entry into force of the agreement in the longer term will foster an increase in contacts between the Polish and Kazakhstan societies, which will have a positive impact on the mutual understanding of the citizens of both countries. In this context, it should be recalled that Poles living in Kazakhstan are more than 34 000. The Agreement establishes a political and trade cooperation mechanism between the European Union and its Member States and Kazakhstan. This mechanism shall be characterised by the reciprocity of rights and obligations and by the joint activities carried out by the bodies set up for that purpose in accordance with certain procedures. In addition, the contract regulates matters regulated by acts of statutory rank in the Republic of Poland (e.g. the pursuit of economic activities, judicial cooperation in civil and criminal matters, geological and mining law), and is therefore subject to ratification with the prior consent of the law, in accordance with Article. Article 89 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u188	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the excise duty Act (print No 849). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Wiesław Jasiński to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u189	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present a brief outline of the justification for the amendment to the excise duty Act, print No 849. This amendment affects the amendment of the Article. 31a of a law which provides for excise duty exemption for coal products. This amendment is, in principle, a combination of points 8 and 9 of the article into one point. As a result, it will exempt coal products intended for fuel use by an energy-intensive undertaking using coal products, in which a system has been put in place to achieve environmental objectives or to increase energy efficiency. Two independent exemptions of coal products are currently in force: firstly, intended for heating purposes by an energy-intensive undertaking using coal products, without requiring that plant to implement the principles leading to environmental objectives or to increase energy efficiency, and secondly, intended for heating purposes by an economic operator in which a system leading to environmental objectives has been put into effect or to increase energy efficiency. These exemptions were challenged by the European Commission. In the Commission's view, the exemption currently in force has a wider scope than that resulting from the Article. 17 Directives on the restructuring of the Community framework for the taxation of energy products and electricity. According to Union legislation, energy products used by energy-intensive undertakings may be exempt from tax provided that agreements and other systems leading to environmental objectives or energy efficiency gains are in place for those plants, which are broadly equivalent to those achieved if the standard Community minimum rates are respected. At this point, it should be noted that the excise duty law for gas products, which is similar to that proposed in the amendment, is in force. Implementation of the amendments in this respect will prevent the European Commission from initiating formal proceedings against Poland under Article. 258 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and will not expose Poland to financial penalties. In summary, this amendment will have an impact on two groups of actors. The first group are entities which are not energy-intensive but have a system in place to achieve environmental objectives or to increase energy efficiency. This group will not benefit from excise duty exemption after the proposed regulations have been introduced. The second group of operators are those that are energy-intensive but do not have a system in place to achieve environmental objectives or to increase energy efficiency. The new wording will require those operators to introduce a system to achieve environmental objectives or to increase energy efficiency in order to continue to benefit from excise duty exemption. It was assumed that this amendment could involve annual revenue for the State budget of PLN 25 million. In view of the above, it is justified to introduce the proposed amendment to the excise duty law. Marshal, thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u190	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Marcin Porzucek, the Law and Justice Club, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u191	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the matter submitted by Prime Minister Beata Szydło to the Sejm by the draft law amending the excise tax law. I would like to point out completely at the outset that the proposed project is intended to implement European Union law. The European Commission has challenged the scope of excise duty exemptions for coal products used by energy-intensive undertakings and by economic operators in which a system has been put in place to achieve environmental objectives or to increase energy efficiency. The provisions in this respect were introduced by the Law of 16 September 2011 on the reduction of certain obligations of citizens and entrepreneurs. In the view of the European Commission, the exemption from taxation for coal products in these cases is more extensive than that provided for in the relevant Directive and it is therefore necessary to amend it. With such recommendations, but also often with recommendations that go deeper into our legal system, there is a reflection on the sovereignty of lawmaking, which the European Union has limited to some extent under the Treaties. On the occasion of this particular project, which concerns excise duty, it is worth leaning on the issue of European energy policy and the directions chosen, because the changes in question relate to energy issues, coal on which our economy is still based and which is one of the guarantors of our energy security. The Government of Law and Justice consistently defends Polish interests, which are well defined but also able to cooperate effectively with the European Union. This is, for example, a proposal submitted to the High House that we are discussing. It was preceded by consultations and was consulted by the environment, which is most interested in these issues. The new regulations will allow energy-intensive undertakings to continue to benefit from exemptions, but after the introduction of measures to achieve environmental objectives or to increase energy efficiency. According to this idea, redundancies operate in other countries of the European Union. It is worth noting, however, that the entry into force of the new rules should contribute to improving the environment, as the new regulations will motivate energy-intensive operators to take action to reduce the negative impact of their activities on the environment. This aspect is also part of the intensive activities undertaken by the Ministry of the Environment. In view of the above, the Law and Justice Club will support the Government's draft law amending the excise duty Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u192	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Monica Wielichowska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u193	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I present my position on the draft law amending the excise duty Act, Seym printing No 849. Our position will be positive. We will vote in favour, but we have one very important point: we will expect government action, i.e. compensation for excise duty exemptions, and an active government policy on aid to entrepreneurs, bearing in mind that at the end of this road there is a consumer who can collide with higher prices. That's what we're gonna do for the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u194	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u195	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Poselski Club I would like to state my position on the government's draft law amending the excise duty law. The amendment concerns the scope of exemption from excise duty for operations subject to coal products intended for heating purposes. This amendment adapts the existing regulations to the standards of the Council Directive on the restructuring of the Community framework for the taxation of energy products and electricity. As a result of the changes, the number of persons subject to excise duty will increase due to the fact that the existing excise duty exemption, according to the European Commission, was outside the scope of the Directive. As this project concerns, as I said, the alignment of national law with European Union rules on indirect taxes, Poland is not a sovereign of these taxes. The Modern Posel Club requests that the project be submitted to the relevant committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u196	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u197	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I will present my position on the government's proposal to amend the excise duty Act, print No. 849. The project discussed today is a very short change in excise duty exemption for coal products used by energy-intensive companies. This draft is the result of the European Commission questioning the provisions adopted by the High House in which exemption from excise duty for coal products intended for heating purposes is included in two cases. As the Minister stressed, these are two independent redundancies. First, when dealing with an energy-intensive undertaking using coal products, the second concerns an economic operator, not necessarily an energy-intensive entity, in which a system has been put into effect to achieve environmental objectives or to increase energy efficiency. The European Commission has considered these provisions to be too broad and incompatible with Directive 2003/96/EC. The draft amendment concerns Article. 31a of the Excise Tax Act and in principle consists of combining points 8 and 9 into one point. The change will result in a reduction of excise duty exemption - only for energy-intensive entities which at the same time introduce a system for achieving environmental objectives or increasing energy efficiency. The date of entry into force of the Act was set at 1 July 2017 in order to allow time for stakeholders to adapt to the new regulations. By eliminating certain entities from excise duty exemption, the revenue of the state budget will increase by PLN 25 million per year, as the government states in the explanatory memorandum. I would also like to point out that the planned changes will be detrimental to the agri-food sector, especially the meat industry and the dairy sector. In the opinion of the Union Polish Meat planned change will result in about 10% businesses in both sectors will increase their business costs. At the same time, it is calculated that a typical medium-sized company with a monthly production of 1.5 million kg will have to add to each kilogram of coal product 1 gr, resulting in an average cost increase of 12 thousand. PLN per month. In small companies it will be over 4,000. zł. In turn, in the opinion of the Institute of Agricultural Economy, the abolition of the exemption from excise duty will affect thousands of small Polish agricultural producers all over Poland who use coal boilers in agricultural production. As a result, an increase in the cost of agricultural production is to be expected, and these are to be thought to be added to the price of their products, which will result in an increase in retail food prices for consumers. In conclusion, it is precisely for these reasons that we are dissatisfied with the proposed amendments eliminating exemptions, which must be considered necessary because of the compatibility of our law with EU legislation. Therefore, the club of the Polish People's Party is in favour of transferring the project to the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u198	Thank you, Member. Would any of the Members like to subscribe to the questions? If not, Mr Paweł Bańkowski, the Civic Platform Club, will ask the first question. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u199	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The amendments proposed in the government project to the excise tax law, according to industry unions, will strike mainly domestic agri-food producers. The costs, as the representatives of the Polish Meat Association, the Institute of Agricultural Economy estimate, for the medium-sized company will be around 120 thousand. PLN per year, and in small companies annual fees will go up by an average of 50,000. zł. My question is: Is the Ministry in the course of further work on this draft law to take account of the demands of the agri-food industry to extend the transitional period, as proposed, until 1 January 2019, so that these companies can adapt to the changes in the legislation?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u200	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, PSL.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u201	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! A few years ago, introducing excise duty exemptions on gas products, we introduced a wide range of energy products. There was natural gas for fuel purposes, for economic purposes. There was so-called gas. LPG used for passenger cars and was also CNG used for bus transport, mainly in public transport. Unfortunately, at that time the High House did not vote for this exemption, although I remember that the Law and Justice considered it appropriate for my amendment, which was then tabled. After all, we know that if city buses are based on this fuel, it makes our cities cleaner, because it is energy fuel. By releasing CNG gas from excise duties, firstly we improve the environment, and secondly we help in some way municipal farms, which are self-government plants. I know that such buses run in many cities: in Rzeszow, Przemyśl, Zamość. So, while taking care of clean air and ecology, I wanted to ask, Minister: Would it not be appropriate to introduce an excise duty exemption for CNG now, on the occasion of the amendment of this law? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u202	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u203	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 2 You indicate that this law will enter into force on 1 July 2017. The entities that are interested, which will have to implement the technology related to that law in addition, have called for a longer period of vacathio legis and the entry into force of that law on 1 January 2019. Why has the entry into force date been set in six months? What were the reasons of the Ministry, setting such a date of entry into force of the Act, not e.g. 1 January 2018 or, as requested by the entities, 1 January 2019? This would allow these actors to actually adapt to changing rules. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u204	Thank you very much. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Mr Wiesław Jasiński will answer the questions. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u205	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I answer questions. The first question concerned vacathio legis and the date of entry into force. It's about July 1 next year. He refers here to the arrangements, to the demands of the agricultural environment in the first place or to representative organisations. There was a two-year deadline. Ladies and gentlemen, the first point is a certain delay, which we are already already noticing about the introduction of these rules. As a result, it should be calculated first whether we are able to keep such a time limit under the hierarchy of possible penalties imposed by the European Commission. So maybe for the sake of order, because we often forget about it, I will say that in the case of such projects as those relating to amendments to the excise duty law, we forget about those penalties that threaten us in connection with the infringement of EU law. Well, the first one is so-called. periodic penalty payment, calculated each day of delay in the execution of the Court's judgment. The amount of the periodic penalty payment shall be calculated by multiplying the base rate of EUR 680 by the weighting factor and the duration of the infringement - that is particularly important. Second punishment. For a lump sum, there are two methods of calculation: either a minimum lump sum, i.e. $4245,000. EUR, or the multiplication of EUR 230 by a weighting factor and a n factor of 7,53. I apologize for the detailed calculations, but I would like to be very clear about the sanctions that threaten us for this. Please note that in the first draft amendment to the excise duty Act we talked about the date of 1 January, so we decided to extend it by an additional 6 months. As regards the Member's second question and the inclination of the ailments to the meat and dairy sector, I would like to point out that, although the amendment to the Act narrows down the catalogue of exemptions provided for the activities for which coal products are intended for calorific purposes, it should be stressed here that there are still a lot of other exemptions for these activities, e.g. This applies to households, schools, kindergartens, crèches, hospitals, electricity production, metallurgy, agricultural, gardening, fish farming and forestry. We often forget that excise duties on coal products alone are amounts not significant to the state budget. We are talking about the amount, on average, of PLN 70 million for recent years. The question, Madame, is the CNG case and the release. I would like to point out that this particular draft amendment to the excise duty law concerns this particular issue, namely the changes in the exemption for coal products, so it would be difficult at this point to proceed with the issue which you have been kind to say. This does not mean that we will not return to this concept in the future, and we will not take care of it. That is actually all the answers, because the question of the Member concerned the 2-year deadline. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u206	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law on the amendment of the excise duty Act, contained in print No. 849, to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. At the same time, the Marshal of the Sejm, based on the article. The 95b Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall set a time limit for the submission of the report to the committee by 2 November 2016. The Infrastructure Commission submitted a report on the government draft law amending the Road Transport Act. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, Marshal of the Sejm, decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. I propose that in the discussion on this item, the Sejm listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm declaring a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 15 minutes 46 hours 15 min 49]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: First reading of the Government's draft law amending the law on the application for an infringement of the party's right to hear the case in preparatory proceedings conducted or supervised by the prosecutor and judicial proceedings without undue delay and some other laws (print No 851). I ask the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Justice of Minister Marcin Warchoł to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u207	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The project is the implementation of the ruling of the European Court of Human Rights in the Rutkowski case and others against Poland, in which the Court pointed out that the problem of chronicity is a systemic problem. It's so-called. last year's pilot judgment, which concerns only those complainants, but formally, concerns a number of other complaints, nearly 600 complaints which are pending trial at the Strasbourg Court and which have been brought in the last 3 years. The Court stated to the Polish side that this problem, as I said, is a systemic problem, which means that the government needs to deal quickly with all these matters on a national level. There is therefore a problem with the case law of the Polish courts in the context of the case law of the European Court of Human Rights, namely that there is a discrepancy between the national case law and the case law of the Strasbourg Court. First of all, the Polish courts carry out the so-called unlawful actions. fragmentation of the procedure, i.e. analyze the duration only in the context of a specific section, the section of the procedure, without looking at the proceedings in its entirety, is limited to the last stage at which the complaint was brought for the duration. That's one thing. Secondly, they point out that the amount of the money allocated is too low, which is precisely due to the lack of an overall assessment. We have therefore proposed to modify a number of provisions of the Act concerning the complaint for chronicity. First of all, first of all, we change the criteria for assessing the concept of "diagnosing the case within a reasonable period' in such a way that consideration is subject to the whole period, i.e. we end with the so-called. fragmentation, the whole period, from the beginning to the moment of the complaint. Secondly, we exclude the possibility for the State Treasury to file a complaint. Thirdly, we point out that the court competent to hear the complaint is also competent to hear the complaint as regards the length of the proceedings, because these are two different moments: judicial proceedings and preparatory proceedings. Fourthly, we mitigate the formal requirements for this complaint, eliminate the requirement to quote the facts justifying the request - it is estimated that more than 8.5 thousand. complaints shall be rejected only on grounds of non-compliance with the formal requirements. Finally, we guarantee an adequate monetary sum in the context compensation in order to make this real in relation to the damage suffered by the party concerned as a result of that duration, which means that the sum of money will never be less than 2 000. zł, and if the procedure lasts relatively longer, we increase it by another 1 000 in the following years. zł. And these are the main assumptions of this first point of this project. The second point concerns the disciplinary responsibility of the Judges and their declaration of property. The analysis of legislation on this issue revealed the need for a number of legislative actions, including: implementation of the recommendations contained in the report of the Group of States against the Corruption of the Council of Europe - GRECO. It is therefore proposed to introduce a regulation whereby the information contained in the judge's property statement is to be made public, in line with the rules on prosecutors. Secondly, doubts are eliminated as to the nature of the liability for wilful misrepresentation in a property statement made by ordinary courts' judges by introducing a provision providing for criminal liability for misrepresentation or concealing the truth in a property statement. Thirdly, the period of disciplinary proceedings is extended, specifically the limitation period of disciplinary deliberation. Fourthly, a new disciplinary penalty is introduced in the form of a reduction in the basic salary of a judge from 5% to 15% for the period from 6 months to 2 years. At the same time, the judgment of each disciplinary penalty, in addition to the warning, will be accompanied by the deprivation of the possibility of being promoted to a higher judicial position for 5 years, the inability to participate in the college of the court, the judgment of the disciplinary court and the taking up of the office of President, Vice President or Head of the local branch in court. The third group of proposed changes concerns the situation of prosecutors. It is proposed to introduce a regulation whereby the participation of the Attorney General or his deputy is mandatory in meetings of the entire NSA. It is proposed that the National Prosecutor's Office or the Public Prosecutor's Office of another agency delegated to act in the National Public Prosecutor's Office should attend the meeting of seven judges of the NSA. It will also be the case with regard to the meetings of the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Tribunal. Ratio legis. There is no reasonable reason for prosecutors to be posted to the National Public Prosecutor's Office to be excluded from carrying out their tasks. In addition, according to the principle of inferencing in the prosecution, there is no rule that a particular prosecutor is taking action, but it is a representative of the prosecutor's office as a whole. And finally, there are changes in disciplinary proceedings against prosecutors. Here we propose that the files of cases legally completed be made available on the basis set out in the Act on access to public information. So it's about the transparency of disciplinary proceedings, the issue, the idea that NGOs, the Ombudsman, have been calling for for for a long time. Finally, the last point, the fifth point, concerns issues relating to the return of the case to the prosecutor. The return shall be made at the request of the prosecutor and the prosecutor if his application is not taken into account, he must be able to carry out the necessary preparatory proceedings without delay. These activities are largely detective. Any delay could lead to distortion or loss of evidence, not to mention the fact that there is a high risk of action of the nature of litigation by those concerned. It is therefore proposed to waive the possibility to challenge the decision of the court to refer the case to the prosecutor in this situation. Finally, the last group are transitional provisions. They concern limitation periods, statements of property of judges and the last point I have pointed out here, namely the return of the case to the prosecutor in particularly justified situations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u208	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Daniel Milewski, Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u209	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The proposal submitted by the Government to amend the Act on complaint against a party's right to investigate a case in pre-trial proceedings conducted or supervised by a prosecutor and judicial proceedings without undue delay and certain other laws met with positive acceptance in the environment of Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. The need for legislative work on these provisions is due to the need to implement the ruling of the European Court of Human Rights. The European Court of Human Rights pointed out the appropriateness of the national authorities to take appropriate legislative action to ensure that the case law of national courts which examines long-term complaints complies with established standards resulting from the provisions of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. Having regard to the above, in the draft Article. 1 paragraph 3 First of all, the Act provides that the Act is to apply in accordance with the standards resulting from the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, drawn up in Rome on 4 November 1950. The purpose of the Act is to emphasise that the Act is to be applied taking into account its requirements. The proposed amendment of the Law on Complaints aims to prevent courts from limiting the recognition of a complaint only to the stage at which the proceedings are to be carried out, which is to be achieved by modifying the criteria for assessing the determination of the case within a reasonable period of time. Furthermore, the amendment takes into account the Court's guidelines to guarantee an adequate amount of money for breaching the party's right to hear the case without undue delay. This shall be achieved through the obligation of the courts to take account of this sum of the entire length of the proceedings, from the time of initiation until the time when the action is dealt with. It is also proposed to introduce a regulation whereby the information contained in the judge's property statement is to be made public, in line with the rules on prosecutors. The introduction of the disclosure of the judges' property statements aims to strengthen confidence in the courts as an institution and to the judges themselves. The proposal also aims to remove inconsistencies in disciplinary proceedings, in particular the possibility of terminating those proceedings without imposing a disciplinary penalty before the expiry of the limitation period. The amendment will constitute an implementation of the recommendations of the Council of Europe Group of States Against Corruption, recommending measures to ensure that disciplinary proceedings relating to the misconduct of judges and prosecutors end before the expiry of the limitation period, such as an appropriate extension of the limitation period or interruption, or suspension of the limitation period in certain circumstances. On the other hand, the proposed amendment to abolish separate limitation periods for disciplinary and disciplinary decisions and the extension of the limitation period is relatively minor and is, in fact, based on the rationalisation of the applicable law. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is 1 The Law on the System of General Courts after point 2 is proposed to add point 2a containing a new disciplinary penalty, as the Minister mentioned, to reduce the basic remuneration of the judge from 5% to 15% for a period from 6 months to 2 years. A wider catalogue of penalties is intended to provide greater flexibility in their application. In addition, the proposal introduces different effects of certain disciplinary penalties than has been the case so far. The decision of any disciplinary penalty, other than an injunction, will result in the deprivation of the possibility of being promoted to higher judicial positions for a period of 5 years, the impossibility of taking part in the college of the court, the judgment in the disciplinary court and the appointment of the President of the court, the Vice-President of the court, the head of the court centre. The extension of the catalogue of penalties will allow greater possibilities for the disciplinary court to react to professional misconduct. It cannot be denied that the proposed changes will contribute both to improving justice work and simply to increasing citizens' confidence in those who hold the weight and the sword of Tamida in their hands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u210	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u211	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club on the government draft law amending the law on the application for an infringement of the right of the party to investigate the case in the preparatory proceedings conducted or supervised by the prosecutor and judicial proceedings without undue delay and certain other laws, print No 851. The bill consists of two completely separate parts. The first part, according to the title, concerns amendments to the complaint law resulting from the need to implement the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights of July 2015 in the Rutkowski case and others against Poland. The European Court of Human Rights pointed out in its ruling that the national authorities should take appropriate legislative action to ensure that the case-law of the national courts determining actions for chronicity is consistent with established standards resulting from the provisions of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The Court's judgment was delivered under the so-called procedure. a pilot judgment, which means that it concerns nearly 600 complaints about the same issue brought against Poland in the last 3 years. Taking into account the Court's view, the draft law amends the system of assessing whether the proceedings have taken place in the long term by taking account of the cumulative time taken from the initiation of the proceedings until the time when the action was examined, irrespective of at which stage the action was brought. The amendment also takes into account the Court's guidelines on the adequacy of the amount of the monetary sum for the duration of the proceedings. An overall assessment of the procedure and flat-rate minimum compensation amounts shall be introduced. This part of the bill does not raise much doubt and should be examined as an independent document under consideration in the Committee on Justice and Human Rights and in the Committee on European Union Affairs. The inclusion in this draft of amendments to other laws which have absolutely no common characteristics is unacceptable. It also runs counter to the principles of correct legislation. This is an attempt to introduce highly controversial and dangerous regulations to the justice system through the kitchen door. The introduction of the disclosure of judges' property claims undermines the role of the state as an independent justice system. It's a tool to put pressure on the independence of a judge to be protected. If the objective is, as we read in the explanatory memorandum, to fight corruption, then this idea is missed and the goal will not be achieved. In most European countries, judges do not make statements of property at all, and corruption is close to zero. That's the way it is. Finland. Let us take advantage of their experience, and let us not resort to restrictive methods which, in extreme cases, will cause the accused person to judge the property statement of the judge handling the case and to take an interest in its assets. I strongly stress that the current system of statements of property of judges is sufficient to assess their reliability and reliability. In view of the above, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform requests that the bill be rejected at first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u212	Thank you very much, Member. I invite you, Marshal Barbara Dolniak, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u213	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As you read the draft of this law, which covers various changes, it is an irrefutable impression: you want to repair the justice system by scaring judges and openly declaring property. Just tell me how a public statement of property is supposed to affect the speed of proceedings. How is increasing disciplinary punishment for judges supposed to speed up proceedings? And that is what citizens say: about the speed of proceedings, about increasing the speed of proceedings, which involves possible procedures of proceedings, with a sufficient number of judges, referenda, assistants, administrative staff, but no, ma'am, with public statements of property of judges. But before I get to it, first of all, I have to say that this art project. (2) (13) infringes the provisions of Article 2 (13) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 3 (1) (a) The principle of legislative technique is that you have placed different legal issues from different laws, considering that this falls within the scope of the complaint concerning the length of proceedings. The justification of the project only in one place on page 6 and 7 seeks to indicate the link between the Act on the application for long-term treatment and the Law on the system of common courts. I quote you: It may happen that the complaint is justified, but there is no blame for the judge or prosecutor. However, in extreme cases, taking into account the complaint may give rise to disciplinary action. An analysis of the legal provisions on disciplinary liability of judges and assessors reveals the need for legislative action. Excuse me, but what's the connection? Unfortunately, with different laws in one draft, you have violated the basic principles of legislative technique and this cannot be improved in the committee, because the committee does not have the possibilities as you imagine in this case. Another point: you do not believe that the proposal, complaints about chronicity need not be justified. All you have to do is write: I complain about the length of the procedure. But that will mean that you leave that side in a better position than anyone who sues because they have to justify it. It's okay here. In addition, one basic case must be borne in mind that you are imposing an ex officio examination on the court at this time, the stage in which the complaint relates, in which part of the infringement has taken place, to the length of the proceedings. Such an imposition of an obligation is not justified by the case law of the ECHR. This caselaw merely indicates that the parties cannot be refused to examine whether there has been a long-term investigation in the course of a proceeding which has already been concluded. Then, Art. 1 point 1 of the project is incompatible with § Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 4 of the 2002 Regulation of the President of the Council of Ministers on the "Principle of Legislative Techniques" because it requires the application of an international agreement, while at the same time using a completely undefined concept of standards resulting from the Convention. Another point, namely that if you believe that the judge's declaration of property, in this case of the public, will improve the speed of the case, improve the speed of the case, you are in grave error. This has nothing to do with each other. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 6 you have written down: the Attorney General, the National Prosecutor or other prosecutors authorised by them may provide information concerning the prosecution, including information on specific cases, to public authorities and, in particularly justified cases. If this may be important for the security of the State or - earlier it was - and now it is - or - the proper functioning. So a civil rights violation as you look at it, you can pull anything you want underneath it. A. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 - here is not the decision of the court, only the prosecutor's request causes the prosecutor to submit an application at the stage of judicial proceedings and in principle governs judicial proceedings. The court has to hand it over. [[♪ The bell ♪]] As a result, every subsequent recipe... In fact, you could lose a whole day to challenge this law, which is why the Modern Club is asking you to reject the project at first reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u214	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Jerzy Jachnik from the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u215	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The print project 851 deals with many changes in one change, because here we are talking about a complaint for chronicity, and this is the title of printing, we are talking about the Law on the system of common courts, we are talking about proceedings before administrative courts, the Constitutional Tribunal, and finally we are talking about a law on the prosecutor's office. I'll try to focus on the long-term complaint. The new project presented inspired the complaint against Poland which was dealt with in the European Court in 2015, which I am also a participant myself. Poland is accused that complaints about chronicity are misunderstood - low compensation is granted, and it was basically signalled from the Polish side that Poland should adapt in this respect to European case law. In the meantime, while examining this complaint, Minister, I must say very clearly this time that all this print No 851 indicates that the legislative process in the Sejm, as well as the projects submitted by the Ministry, are flawed, poorly prepared and unfit to proceed. I wanted to ask: Will the law on the length of proceedings contribute to the shortening of proceedings? Are the European standards contained in Article actually respected in this law. Article 6 (6) (a) 1 and Article 1 13 the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms? Finally, I ask: Does this law safeguard the complainant that he will be recognized by an independent court, or will it be judged by judges who had previously contributed to this length of time? Finally, I ask: Should the judge be responsible for the decisions of chronicity because of the fault of the State Treasury, or should the judge or judges who led to the length of time? A negative answer should be given to all questions. Why? Here's an example, ladies and gentlemen. On 28 March 2013, and thus much earlier than the ruling of the European Court of Human Rights, a resolution of the Supreme Court was adopted in its seven-member composition with the signature of the III SPZP 1/13, which clearly stated that the duration was the whole period since the beginning of the proceedings. So the case seemed pretty clear by then. Meanwhile, on 6 June 2016 - here are examples - judges of the District Court in Bielsko-Biała Andrzej Trzopek, Wiesław Sadł and Agata Mieszczak in the VII S 9/16 signature case, which lasted 16 years and was conducted six times more than six years after the limitation period by Judge Paweł Kudelski, dismiss the complaint. The same complaint, also 16 years old, in Case II S 38/16 dismiss the judges of the Court of Appeal in Katowice: Marek Charuza, Piotr Pospiech, Gwidon Jaworski. So I ask: What will change this bill? Minister, I don't know if you've pointed out that, so far, in the complaint for chronicity in accordance with the old law, which is the one you want to change, you could, for example. With a 10-year procedure, five times, five times theoretically, could be obtained e.g. $20,000. compensation. Of course, that's a virtual amount, because her courts never approved it. However, according to the new law, this will be deducted, i.e. in a 10-year period it will be possible to get a maximum of 20,000. compensation. I would advise you to think about it, as this is the law that will once again be challenged by the European Court of Justice. As for the statements of property of judges in general, the Kukiza Movement is also for public disclosure, but I must say that we will not change the situation in the judiciary, Minister - and once again I call for this - if the High Chamber and the Ministry of Justice do not lead to the adoption of a single law on the liability of all public officers, namely employees of various ministries, judges, prosecutors with a limitation period of 25 years. And I'm saying this with all responsibility, because how do you want to prosecute reprivatization today, since all things are statute-barred? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Unfortunately, it is impossible for you, Marshal, to present many major aspects within five minutes. I hope we can put them on the justice committee. Each of the Kukiz-15 will vote according to their own belief, the club will not vote uniformly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u216	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk made a statement on behalf of the club in writing. I would like to ask Mr Ireneus for a profit near Free and Solidarnia.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u217	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I would like to present my position on the Government's draft law amending the law on the application for an infringement of the party's right to investigate a case in the preparatory proceedings conducted or supervised by the prosecutor and judicial proceedings without undue delay and certain other laws. The proposal provides for the revision of a number of legal acts, but particularly major amendments concern the Law on the System of Universal Courts. First of all, we are talking about the obligation to disclose the statements of property of judges and to publish them in the Public Information Bulletin, second, about changes in disciplinary proceedings against judges and prosecutors regarding the disclosure of statements of property of judges. Incomprehensible to me are the voices of the judge's community saying that this poses a threat to the independence of judges or to their personal safety. However, I do not consider it crucial to argue from the justification of the project that the introduction of the disclosure of the judges' property statements is intended to strengthen confidence in the courts as an institution and to the judges themselves. You can argue with whether this will be the effect of this change. More important, in my opinion, is the argument that persons with the status of a public official should make such statements openly. Only secret, secret service officers may be excluded, e.g. CBA or CBI officers. The judges are acting openly, so that limitation should not apply to them. In addition, a security has been introduced whereby, at the request of a Judge who has made a declaration, an entity entitled to receive a declaration may decide to include the information contained in the security statement provided for classified information: reserved, as laid down in the provisions of the Act of 5 August 2010 on the protection of classified information, if disclosure of that information would endanger the judge or the persons closest to him. The amendment of the Law on the System of General Courts is also intended to eliminate doubts as to the nature of the liability for the deliberate misrepresentation in the property declaration made by the General Court's judges. The rules so far do not specify whether such conduct constitutes a criminal offence or only a disciplinary measure. This results in systemic inconsistencies, taking into account the provision of the Article. 14 the Law of 21 August 1997 on the limitation of the conduct of business by persons performing public functions, as well as Article. Article 35 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 9th Act of 9 May 1996 on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator. Those provisions provide that a statement of property shall be made under criminal liability and in this case standards relating to ordinary court judges should not be lower than those applicable to other persons performing public functions. The extension of the limitation period from 3 to 5 years, as well as from the initiation of proceedings, to 8 years, should be read in the case of disciplinary proceedings for plus. In addition, in the article. 109 § 1 after point 2 of the Act, the applicant proposes to add point 2a containing a new disciplinary penalty, i.e. reduction of the basic salary of a court judge in general from 5% to 15% for a period from 6 months to 2 years. There is also an obligation to impose a combined penalty in the event of simultaneous punishment for several disciplinary offences and the possibility of imposing such a penalty upon the defendant's request, where the guilty person has committed two or more disciplinary offences before the first, if not unlawful, judgment on any of them. The proposed changes, in our opinion, will increase the sense of accountability of judges for the conduct of proceedings, among others. in the context of minimizing its chronicity, which will have a positive impact on the public's assessment of the functioning of the justice system in Poland. Members of the Members of the Free and Solidarni Circle request that the bill be submitted for further work in the Sejm committees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u218	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Janusz Sanocki, an independent Member. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u219	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am, to tell you the truth, when I looked at print 851, terrified. Eight major bills in one bill. We change, we touch things that are very important, while at the same time bringing chaos. The title is already confusing because it doesn't actually allow us to assume that the case concerns such serious solutions. There's a lot of annoying things out there, so to speak, records, but I'm particularly upset about art. 8, which gives the prosecutor, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the right to actually deny the judgment of the first instance. If the court must, at the request of the prosecutor, request the addition of the file, return the file at the appeal stage and the judgment is revoked, the prosecutor is de facto more important than the court and may waive any judgment. I mean, what kind of law-abiding state in the world is that? I'm sorry, but I have the impression that we're getting the drafts written completely on our knees. I'm asking you not to lower the importance of the House and the government. What's going on here anyway? There's no doubt the judiciary needs a major reform, but I don't think we should start... I am, indeed, in favour of equality of all statements, e.g. property: if the councilmen give, let the judges give, but why do we start with statements of property? We're doing a little bit of that to make this political argument... to show that there are judges, and now we're gonna tease them a little bit, let them show their fortunes now. Ladies and gentlemen, the judiciary requires a serious structural change at the level of the Law on the System of Courts. I believe that judges should be elected in accordance with the Article. 4 Constitution, Art. 4 leaves no doubt that today the judiciary is in a very unclear state. I therefore ask you to withdraw this law and to take care of the serious corrective work in the area of justice, chronicity, the functioning of the prosecutor's office and all other departments of justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u220	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of your fellow Members like to subscribe to the question? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, the Law and Justice Club. Question time - 1 minute. Are you an MP? [[Yeah, yeah.]] There it is.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u221	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In Article 2, paragraph 2 is 1 The Law on the System of General Courts after point 2 is proposed to add point 2a containing a new disciplinary penalty: a reduction in the basic remuneration of a judge from 5 to 15% for a period from 6 months to 2 years. A wider catalogue of penalties is intended to provide greater flexibility in their application. I would therefore like to ask what this provision is dictated by. Is this affected by the fact that in 2015 more than 5 000 were sent to the National Judicial Council. complaints against judges and citizens' requests, and the other as much as the Minister of Justice? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u222	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u223	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This law proposes that the information contained in the judge's statement be made public. They are also to be made available in the Public Information Bulletin. On the one hand, it is a solution to build public confidence in judges and judicial institutions, and on the other hand it raises a number of doubts, mainly those concerned. It is the judges who have a special role in the system of state authority. The more information about the private sphere of judges' lives will be made public, the more they may feel threatened. I therefore ask the Minister: Are these concerns justified, which security measures will be guaranteed to judges after the implementation of these regulations and which could give rise to a reservation of information [[♪ The bell ♪]] included in the statement? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u224	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Wiesław Krajewski, the Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u225	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I on one issue concerning the length of proceedings in the proposed law. The right to a fair trial is one of the fundamental rights guaranteed under the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. It is therefore necessary to align the provisions of the law governing the complaint with the requirements laid down by the European Court of Human Rights. This bill certainly regulates these issues. However, I have one question in this regard: In addition to the regulation of the complaint on the length of proceedings and compensations ordered for the duration of the bill in question, are work carried out in the Ministry to improve and speed up judicial and prosecutorial proceedings, so as not to expose the State Treasury in the future to the need to pay compensation, which in 2015 amounted to about PLN 5 million and may increase as a result of the introduction of a law increasing possible compensation? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u226	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u227	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question for Art. 6 of this bill. Which ratio legis is the basis for the amendment of the article. 12 laws on the D.A.'s office? This change extends the scope of the possibility of making the material available from the preparatory proceedings to other persons. Because so far this provision was: because of the important security of the state and its proper functioning. At the moment it is: due to the security of the State or its proper functioning. This provision of the article. 12 was challenged by the Ombudsman to the Constitutional Court as incompatible in particular with Article. 47 and 51. 2 Constitution of the Republic of Poland. You continue to break the law by extending all the arguments that have been put in the complaint to this provision brought by the Ombudsman. I understand that the President wants to have a look at all the preliminaries, but, for God's sake, don't break the law, let the President become Prime Minister, be a public authority, have access to all the files. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u228	Thank you very much. I invite Marshal Barbara Dolniak, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u229	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question as to what rules you followed when drawing up this project, and how you dealt with the issue of legislative technique, including in the draft seven laws, which practically and theoretically have no connection. What is the relevance of the complaint for the length of time with the statements of property and the disclosure of the parties' statements of property, the question of the prosecutor's office and the transfer of the file back to the prosecution's case after the judgment has been delivered, which must be repealed in the appeal court at that time? What were you going to do, putting it in a draft law from Sasa to the forest, which has nothing to do with legislative technique and certainly doesn't improve justice? My lords, if you do not know how to improve justice, ask the professionals. I'm sure they'll tell you. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u230	Thank you very much, Marshal. Please, Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u231	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The judge has great power. He can convict a person, take away her fortune. The judge is employed in the current situation, as I say, under the programme: first job. This is usually the first job, life work. The judge even remains, he's a judge when he retires, he retires. He's still a judge. He's still protected by immunity. My question concerns the state of rest. Are those provisions which concern judges also relating to the state of rest? And the second question: In the light of the experience that has been done so far, in the light of the complaints against the judges that my previous speaker was talking about - are there so many, mostly, in the vast majority are these unfounded or, of course, unfounded actions - these statistics give reason to expect these cases to be dealt with correctly?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u232	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u233	Thank you very much. Sorry, Marshal, for the extension.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u234	I invite Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u235	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I have a very specific question: What is the level of corruption among judges, according to the Minister of Justice, which would justify such radical rules concerning the disclosure of claims of property? I'm asking for a specific answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u236	Thank you very much. [[28,5%.]] [[There's nothing to laugh about, you have to cry.]] The last question is asked by Mr Jerzy Jachnik, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u237	I have a question for the Minister: How will they be - and whether they will be - included in a so-called legal act. other people who will have access to the files? This is because it is too broad a concept and may be such that it will lead to the transmission of information from investigations to unauthorised persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u238	Thank you very much, sir. [[Voice from the courtroom, Marshal...]] But what are you gonna... The Minister will still refer... Yeah, thank you very much. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Marcin Warchoł will answer the question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u239	Thank you very much, honourable Members, for the many important questions that have been asked here. I will try to refer to them in order, except that important information was also given at the stage of the submission of statements by the representatives. That's what I'm gonna be referring to. First thing. Mr Jarosław Gonciusz asked whether the new disciplinary penalty was dictated by a large number of complaints - over 5,000. in 2015 - to the National Court Register and also to the Ministry of Justice. Of course, yes. I would like to point out that the project presented here aims at a holistic, functional regulation of the situation that we currently have, concerning the problem with the dysfunction of Polish courts. The number of complaints is huge, things are getting longer. The Court in Strasbourg, as I stressed, stated that we have a systemic problem of chronicity. On the other hand, there is a problem of disclosure of claims of property, the problem of transparency, the problem of credibility of the Polish justice system. The judge is independent, the judge is impartial. Unbiased, independent, flawless - this is how it should appear in the eyes of an ordinary citizen. It is about introducing standards, high European standards, which already prevent criminal activities from being carried out in the pre-field, preventing the implementation of activities of a corrupt nature. And I would like to stress that this punishment, which you have asked for, has already been proposed by the Civic Platform in the previous hand. Namely, the bill proposed exactly from 5 to 15%. Moreover, this project was examined by the Constitutional Tribunal. The Constitutional Tribunal did not see the problem as regards this punishment, so that here we took what our predecessors had already proposed. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek asked a question about the threat of judges, which security measures can be guaranteed for judges who may feel threatened by making their claims public. I will say this if someone drives a good car, whether he's a judge or a prosecutor or a different profession, he will always arouse the interest of his neighbors, his surroundings, especially if it's a small town. It's a human thing. If it is a Member or a Member, the same is true of man. Lexus will arouse interest by force. I therefore see no reason here to treat judges in a special way, other than you, honourable Members, Members. You make this information public, and you have no reason to feel threatened in your hometowns. As far as legal solutions are concerned, there is an opportunity, Madam, to applaud - in special situations - to make this statement secret. Mr Wiesław Krajewski asked whether work was being carried out in the Ministry so as not to expose the Treasury to the payment of PLN 5 million. Yes, unfortunately, sir, this number is increasing. Ten years ago it was 1 million, now it's 5 million, the number of complaints is growing. This shows the problem our country has with the length of proceedings. I can assure you that such work is being carried out, and it is already at a significant stage. I can't tell you the details. They will soon be presented to the House. Mr Mirosław Pampuch asked whether the article. 12 Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office is not a threat to freedom and civil rights by converting the coherent and/or coherent. Namely, it is about making available, for example, information that may be relevant to the security of the State or its proper functioning. So we have two elements where you can ask for this type of information, two values. The first is state security. What is state security? At this point, We view them in an accidental manner, such as a terrorist attack. State security is at risk and a third party should have access to such information in certain situations, in the situations referred to in that provision, to public authorities and, in justified, particularly justified cases, to other persons. On the other hand, the second term - the proper functioning of the state - refers to a system problem, a system error. It's a more functional concept. The right to information in a state security situation cannot be restricted at this point simply because something is not related to the proper functioning. The conjunction that had previously occurred, at this moment, introduced such a limitation. And what did it do? This led to the fact that in emergency situations, emergency situations - I described an example of a terrorist attack - it was not possible to obtain such files, such information, when necessary, it was necessary for the security of the State, only because the State was functioning in principle well, and in this one incident something like this happened that the problem had arisen. Here we introduce some flexibility. We're introducing some flexibility. Namely, these situations do not have to overlap. They don't have to overlap. There may be a situation, I stress, a systemic error, a problem in the functioning of the State, which can cause the fact that only for this reason should such information be made available, it can be made available, it should not be made available, it can be made available. It's optional. Barbara Dolniak asked the question, in principle, by referring to her earlier statement on the question of combining different types of solutions in a single law. It's the so-called. horizontal laws that function. The High Chamber has dealt with this on several occasions in previous terms. They functioned, have been introduced many times in the previous term, they have been dealt with many times, so that they have already become part of the custom, I would say, even legislative, of these horizontal laws. Set these... What's their idea? The idea is a holistic, functional, holistic approach to a given issue, and here we are talking about the dysfunction of the justice system, the dysfunctionality of which is: firstly, the chronicity, and secondly, the secrecy, the lack of transparency, the lack of confidence of citizens in the state and the rights they create, to judges as those who constitute the law. This is best borne out by what the Court of Justice said in Strasbourg, pointing out our judgments, pointing out very clearly. He emphasized very clearly, even in this ruling by Rutkowski against Poland, but also Wawrzynowicz against Poland, in another judgment that Polish courts do not follow the recommendations of the European Court of Human Rights, a number of points, among others. It is about this fragmentation, the amount of compensation, precisely these high formal standards. And here I will refer to what you have asked. High formal standards. The Member referred to the civil process. I'll give you other examples from the civil trial. These are pre-emptive provisions which close the right to the court to the citizen, in fact limiting it in fact, or the inability to submit evidence after a certain period of time, unless the citizen has been informed about it later. I'll point to another problem. I'm going to point out the problem of the pre-emption at the stage of the appeal procedure. Forcing the citizen - I take some criticism of these provisions - the Member, to what? To be de facto an arbiter and reviewer of the actions of the judge himself. If you do not show proper reflection on this party or participant of the proceedings, as you know perfectly well as a judge, at the appropriate stage of the proceedings, then what? So what's the appeal? So that we have a number of different kinds of solutions which make this process a process, which is largely referred to by many as a formula, yes, a formula, a process in which, in the name of striving for efficiency, functionality, somewhat the convenience of the judge introduced solutions, I stress, firstly, the pre-cluse rules, secondly, these limitations in the ability to raise appeals. Thirdly, in order to file a pleading, a judge's consent to file a pleading must be obtained. Why? Because it frees the judge from the sad duty to read the case files. Such solutions are a whole lot of things, and these solutions, of course, close the way to court, making it very difficult for citizens. It cannot be that we will copy it to a complaint about chronicity and in situations where we are to put out a fire, we will put it out with gasoline. And that's how it is today. Cases relating to the complaint of chronicity themselves fall into the chronicity, as is apparent from the studies of the Justice Institute, complaints about the chronicity of situations in which judges themselves should react quickly, because there is already a chronicity, there has already been damage, already the citizen has incurred certain costs on the proxy, suffered damage. What are the judges doing? The judges are even delaying these matters. I'm pointing out fire gasoline. So that it is absolutely unacceptable to accept the proposal by the honourable Member to bring in the formal requirements and introduce some additional requirements for the indication of procedural charges, etc., maybe there are more introductions, deadlines, etc. A right for a citizen, not a citizen for a right. Another question. Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski asked a question about the state of rest. These provisions are independent of the issue of retirement, Mr President, so that here we are ready to talk at the stage of work in the committee, in the subcommittee, as they function independently of the matter of resting. The next question concerned the number of complaints rejected. Yes, you are absolutely right, 8.5. thousands. complaints are rejected for formal reasons. It is as a result of this pursuit of the formula that the Member has called for. These high formal requirements, which the citizen must comply with, mean that these complaints are rejected. It was the European Court of Human Rights in the case of Wawrzynowicz against Poland that he raised us and criticized us for that. Polish, you have too high a level of difficulty for citizens in accessing this complaint about chronicity. And finally, the second-to-last question. As far as I am concerned, Mrs Zofia Czernow asked what the level of corruption among judges is. Here's what I'm gonna say. This is a question that I have met many times during my previous work at the Ombudsman's Office in the department of cassation, writing certain applications to the Constitutional Tribunal. The spokesperson was asked, "Why are you writing this motion to the tribunal?" How many complaints have affected you? The Ombudsman often replied: even if one complaint was received, the problem cannot be lost from the point of view, the problem is important, even if there is one case. It doesn't matter if there were 100, 1000, etc., it's about how a citizen sees a judge, how a citizen sees a third power, about the position of a judge in the eyes of all of us. And therefore this transparency, credibility, I stress, and this particular nature of corruption activity. This cancer, which can be going on, I do not say how many cases it is, 100, 10,000, 200 - I emphasize, may be going on - the Polish justice system should already be thwarted in the far prefield. The so-called criminalisation in a faraway pre-field of committing a criminal offence in this case is absolutely legitimate. The penalties that have already been imposed at an early stage are very far-reaching in terms of how in any other case they are required. I think that's it. Thank you very much. [[Art. Eight, Minister, the D.A.'s clearances.]] Art. 8... Oh, excuse me, sir, sir. Art. 8, return to completion of the record of the preliminary investigation. I stress the situation we're in. We're in a situation where, within a year, we've dealt with three procedural orders. It was the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, which operated from 1997 to 2015 until 1 July. Then it was changed to a completely different model, the so-called model. adversarial, as some want, mixed, with the advantage of adversarial elements. And this model - I call it the American model de facto, so in quotes - functioned until April 15th, which is less than a year, then it was changed again, the previous model was restored as the one which more guarantees the rights, guarantees the exercise of civil rights, this model our traditional, continental, so-called. an official model of criminal proceedings. In this connection, there is a need to supplement the preparatory file, which - that is the most important one, Mr President - could, on the basis of that model, operate very briefly for a few months, have a much lower level than the one we now have and have had for decades. What's the point? The point is that we were given a model of preliminary investigation, in which the model of the indictment, as stated in the explanatory memorandum, could have been brought on a much lower level of grounds, factual findings than so far. Moreover, some have written that the level of the factual findings relevant to the formulation of the pleas in law already exists, Article. 313 K.p.k. is the one where you can file an indictment. What's that? We're interrogating one witness, and we're already releasing the indictment, we've got, I dare say, some kind of surgical and cognitive activity, and we're already releasing the indictment. This is the level of actual findings much lower than before. What did it do? That such acts of indictment, unprepared, so fragmented, so deformed, such on the head, went to the courts. The courts have these indictments, and these indictments are unprepared, and it is in question that the two most important principles, namely the principle of material truth, an accurate criminal response and the principle of fundamental elementary justice. The authors themselves estimated that after its entry into force it could be up to 30%.40% acquittal. This is a powerful scale of the problem that the Polish state cannot go backwards from which it cannot turn away. And that is why we have a return to complete the act of preliminary proceedings, so that it is on the basis of the principles that exist today and which have been in operation for decades since 1928, since we had the first Code of Criminal Procedure, which traditionally functioned in our Polish model, continental, as in many other codes, French, German. So that here it is necessary, absolutely necessary, in the name of justice, material truth, an appropriate criminal response, so as not to exonerate the guilty and not to convict the innocent, because there is such a risk in the other direction. If the indictments on the basis of these fragmented, weak acts of pre-trial proceedings, prepared quickly, at precisely this lower level of factual findings than those which have been carried out since then, something must be done about it. And that's why it's a solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u240	Thank you very much. In corrigendum mode... [[Minister, there are others in the article. 6.]] Is there anything else you'd like to add, or have you exhausted... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Marcin Warchoł: No. I'm exhausted.]] Thank you very much. In the procedure of correcting the Member, Marshal Barbara Dolniak. [[How much time do I have, Marshal?]] One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u241	Oh, you have no pity for me, Marshal, there are so many things to correct. But maybe I'll start right away. Minister, the principles of legislative technology are strictly defined. Laws must be related in substance. We can't talk about a horizontal relationship because we're going to look at the Code of Criminal Procedure and maybe the Water Law, or the excise duty, or maybe the superiority of Christmas over the holidays of the Great Night. In this way, we can rewrite everything, as you say, about looking at it as a whole. So let's put all the laws into one project. That's one thing. Secondly, there were 16 million cases last year, and you said $5,000. complaints, but you didn't say how many of them were legitimate, that's another matter. That's not even 0.1%. A little sense in this commentary charge. And there's absolutely no justification in your statements saying that... Now there's the adversarial nature of the procedure. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Your removal, stately, means that the court of law already has to carry out evidence, is enough to file a motion.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u242	Thank you very much. Another correction, Mr Sanocki, please. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u243	Minister, I understand there's a reason for everything. I'm talking about art. Eight and a prosecutor's right to demand... It's about supplementing the prosecution. But that's too far-reaching a prosecutor's license. If the prosecutors have filed misdemeanor indictments, inappropriate, low-level charges, let those prosecutors go, and don't screw up right now... We're screwing up the whole legal system in my opinion, because it's such a far-reaching right for the prosecutor, de facto to go into trial - at a stage where there's a first instance judgment, whatever it is, the prosecutor's de facto motion to supplement the act is repealing that judgment. This, in my opinion, is absolutely too far-reaching a right, and this is unfortunately a ruin of the law. I urge you not to do that.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u244	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u245	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party to present our position on the government proposal for a law amending the law on complaint against the right of the party to investigate a case in preparatory proceedings conducted or supervised by the prosecutor and legal proceedings without undue delay and some other laws, print No 851. Today's project results from the need to implement the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights of 7 July 2015 in the Rutkowski case and others against Poland, actions No 72287/10, 13927/11 and 46187/11. The European Court of Human Rights pointed out in its ruling that the national authorities should take appropriate legislative action to ensure that the case law of the national courts determining the length of proceedings complies with the established standards resulting from the provisions of the Article. Article 6 (6) (a) 1 and Article 1 13 the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. In addition, it is necessary to implement in the Law on the System of General Courts the recommendations drawn up by the IV round of evaluation of the Group of States against the Council of Europe Corruption, indicating the need for measures to ensure that disciplinary proceedings concerning the improper conduct of judges and prosecutors end before the expiry of the limitation period. The proposed amendment of the Law on Complaints aims to prevent courts from limiting the recognition of a complaint only to the stage at which the proceedings are to be carried out, which will be achieved by modifying the criteria for assessing the determination of the case within a reasonable period of time. The proposed amendment takes into account the Court's guidelines to ensure adequate compensation for the infringement of the party's right to investigate the case without undue delay. This will be achieved through the obligation of the courts to take into account in determining the appropriate monetary sum in relation to the determination of the duration of the proceedings, from the time of initiation until the date of the hearing. The draft proposes that, if the court finds that the length of the proceedings is chronic, the amount of the sum of the money determined should be not less than PLN 1000 for each year of the proceedings, regardless of whether the duration of proceedings is limited to the stage or the various stages of the proceedings, leaving the applicable rules in force, according to which the court grants the sum of money between PLN 2000 and PLN 20,000. Regulation on formal deficiencies in the complaint will also be alleviated. The proposed amendments will contribute to the removal and at least to the limitations found by the Court in the practice of judicial dysfunction in the application of a national protection measure, which is an action for chronicity. As rightly stated in its opinion on the National Judicial Council Act, the text of the proposed article. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 raises doubts as to the interpretation that the court, having regard to the action for the length of proceedings, grants a certain amount of money for each year of the proceedings. It would be appropriate to specify for each year the duration established so that monetary compensation is not granted for periods in which the duration has not been established. The proposed amendment to the article is debatable and questionable. 87 § 6 P.u.s.p., introducing the disclosure of statements of property of judges. In accordance with the applicable provisions, the statement of property of the judge shall be examined by the College of the competent tax office. That authority shall, within the framework of its statutory powers, examine the data contained in the statement relating to the property composition of the judge and may, in the event of doubts as to the legality of the origin of the assets disclosed in the declaration, address the notices to the competent services. In our view, this system sufficiently guarantees the transparency of the judges' material situation. If the proposed changes are to improve the fight against corruption, it should be noted that the data to be disclosed to this service already now have access to it. According to the draft disciplinary action against prosecutors and judges, they will not end until the limitation period expires. An extension of the period during which disciplinary action may be initiated against a judge is envisaged from 3 to 5 years after the act has been committed. An extension of the disciplinary limitation from 5 to 8 years is also envisaged in the event of disciplinary proceedings being initiated before the expiry of 5 years. A new disciplinary penalty is foreseen to reduce the basic remuneration of the judge by 5.15% for a period from 6 months to 2 years. Other effects of certain disciplinary penalties have also been identified. The judgment of each disciplinary penalty, in addition to a warning, will result in the refusal of the possibility of being promoted to a higher judicial position for 5 years, as well as the impossibility of taking part in the College of the Court of Justice during that period, of ruling in a disciplinary court and of taking over the office of President and Vice-President, Head of the Centre of the Local Court. All these changes intended to discipline judges and the penalties involved are considered disproportionate and excessive. This is particularly the case for minor offences related to incorrect working methods or lack of time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u246	A motion to reject the draft law at first reading was put forward in the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. Because we have acceleration, and the social committee's representatives haven't arrived yet, so that we don't waste any time, we move on to the next point. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law amending the Road Transport Act (Prints Nos 459 and 874). I would like to ask Mr Jerzy Polak to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u247	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to submit on behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure a report related to the contested draft law amending the Road Transport Act, print No. 459. This law aims to fulfil the obligations imposed by Regulation No 1071/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 October 2009 which laid down common rules concerning the conditions for the occupation of road transport operator and repealing the 1996 Council Directive of the Union as regards the establishment and maintenance of a national electronic register of road transport undertakings authorised by the competent authority to pursue the occupation of road transport operator. I would like to stress, High Izbo, that the bill under consideration has its own history, because unfortunately the deadline for the adaptation of national law has already expired on 31 December 2012. In the meantime, most Member States of the European Union have introduced national registers into their legal order and are exchanging information with countries within the European Union. In particular, I would like to stress that Article. Article 16 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Regulation No 1071/2009 referred to above by me provides that each Member State shall keep a national electronic register of road transport operators who have obtained authorisation from the competent authority designated by that Member State to pursue the occupation of road transport operator. The processing of the data contained in the register shall be subject to scrutiny by the public authority designated in this respect and the data which contains that register shall be available to all competent authorities of the Member State concerned. In accordance with the Regulation, the Member States referred to here twice before are taking all the necessary measures to ensure that these national registers are implemented. As mentioned earlier, most countries implemented electronic registers a few years ago and the transposition deadline expired in 2012. In the Polish contexts of road transport law, this register will be kept by the main inspector of road transport in the ICT system. The data for this register will be transmitted by the authorities authorised for this purpose, such as the chief transport inspector himself, the starosts, the city presidents on the rights of the county, the voivodships road transport inspectors, police officers, customs officers, the chief of the Border Guard, the chief labour inspector. According to the proposed rules, the data collected in the register of undertakings authorised to pursue the occupation of road transport operator will be public and publicly available. On the other hand, data collected in the records of serious infringements and records of persons who have been found unable to manage transport operations shall be made available only to authorised authorities and the Internal Security Agency. In the view of the government, the entry into force of the proposed law will have a positive impact on the quality of services provided by road transport operators. Thanks to the data collected in the register, the authorities responsible for the control of traders will be able to respond more effectively and quickly to those committed by certain operators authorised to pursue the occupation of road transport operator and persons managing road transport breaches of their obligations or conditions for carrying out such transport both within the country and in other Member States of the European Union. This will change - positively, of course - the safety of road transport and freight traffic and create better conditions for fairer competition between carriers. The proposed act will also contribute to strengthening the administrative cooperation of Poland with other countries of the European Union in the supervision of road transport companies which operate e.g. in several EU countries at the same time. The creation of the National Electronic Register of Road Transport Entrepreneurs will enable Polish drivers who carry out international road services e.g. on the territory of France, the submission of information concerning the registration during the roadside inspection in accordance with the new French provisions which entered into force on 1 July 2016. In this regard, however, there was a very serious problem not only of practical but also of formal law, which was temporarily removed as a result of active policies and appropriate actions within the European government and the Minister of Infrastructure, Construction and Maritime Affairs. The Commission for Infrastructure also made at today's meeting a certain adjustment to the initial submission to the extent that the National Electronic Register of Road Transport Entrepreneurs will be set up on 31 December 2017 and not, as originally stated, on 1 April 2017. In addition to the chapter on the establishment and keeping of the register, which is added to the Road Transport Act, the project contains very important provisions aimed at ensuring compliance of national provisions with EU Regulations 1071/2009 and 1072/2009, which concern the procedure for the examination of the reputation of entrepreneurs and regulate this procedure. The rules governing this procedure shall determine which infringements will result in the loss of the good reputation of the carrier or transport manager and under which circumstances good reputation may remain intact despite the infringement of the carrier concerned. Information about serious infringements found and the reasons why loss of good repute would be a disproportionate response - and therefore remains intact - will be recorded in that register. Thus, the provisions relating to the examination of good repute are closely linked to the provisions which form the electronic register. The proper design of provisions relating to good repute testing has a significant impact on the proper functioning of the electronic register itself and complies with the requirements laid down in Union law. As regards the scope of matters governed by the law, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the mere process of this project was also complemented by a very intensive consultation between the government party and the associations of international road transport carriers, in order to respond significantly better also to the substantive voices of the market addressed to the government and relating to the issue of the project itself. As part of the work in the Sejm, the first reading of the project took place in May, followed by two meetings on 8 and 9 June. On 22 September, the subcommittee completed its work. Today, the subcommittee's report has been considered. I would like to reiterate that a number of comments made by the social side have been introduced in agreement with the government party. This project has been further analysed in particular in terms of the maximum liberalisation of the draft rules for the examination of the good reputation of road transport operators and transport managers, in order to ensure that the rules comply with EU regulations at the same time. I think that Members working in the subcommittee at the beginning have also contributed to this aspect. It can therefore be said that on each side: and social, and government, and parliamentary, this project has been further examined. The amendments introduced as a result of the subcommittee's work ensure that the draft complies with the provisions of the new Commission Implementing Regulation concerning the procedure for examining good repute which was published in March this year. This is Commission Regulation (EU) 2016/403 of 18 March which supplements Regulation (EC) No 1071/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council with regard to the classification of serious infringements of Union rules which may lead to the loss of good repute by road transport operator and amending Annex III to Directive 2006/22 of the European Parliament and of the Council. This Regulation provides for a somewhat more favourable procedure for road transport operators than the 2009 Regulation, because it introduces a mechanism for the conversion of these infringements according to their seriousness. Finally, High Sejm, your Marshal, bearing in mind that in those days the Court of Justice of the European Union is taking proceedings against Poland on the conclusion that, by failing to establish the National Register of Road Transport Entrepreneurs, the Republic has failed to fulfil its obligations under Article. Article 16 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and 5 of Parliament's Regulation, first of all, there is a need to adopt this draft law urgently and then very active action by the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Chief Road Transport Inspector in order to urgently implement the same electronic register. Once again, I stress that we are debating a document that should be adopted by the Parliament of the previous term of office and implemented. Unfortunately, this did not happen, but it was simply the time that we were given to evaluate and adopt these solutions requested by the government, I think it was used in a very adequate, good way. As rapporteur for the committee, I would like to thank both the social side and the government side, colleagues from the Committee on Infrastructure. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u248	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Piotr King, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u249	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present our position on the draft law amending the Road Transport Act, print No 459, which aims to fulfil the obligations imposed by Regulation No 1071/2009 of the European Parliament of 21 October 2009 laying down common rules concerning the conditions for the occupation of road transport operator and repealing Council Directive 96/26 as regards the establishment and operation of the National Register of Electronic Road Transport Entrepreneurs, who have obtained authorisation from the competent authority to pursue the occupation of road transport operator. It is worth recalling the situation we are in. The deadline for adapting national law to that act has already expired on 31 December 2012. The Government of the Civic Platform in this area - although it would like to say that not only in this - failed. Interestingly, most Member States of the European Union already have national registers and exchange information within the European Union. Art. Article 16 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Regulation 1071/2009 provides that each Member State shall keep the National Electronic Register of Road Transport Entrepreneurs who have obtained authorisation from the competent authority designated by that State to pursue the occupation of road transport operator. The processing of data contained in the register shall be subject to scrutiny by a public authority designated for that purpose. The relevant data contained in the national electronic register shall be available to all competent authorities of the Member State concerned. In accordance with the Regulation, Member States shall take all necessary measures to ensure that national electronic registers are interconnected and accessible throughout the Community through the national contact points responsible for the exchange of information by 31 December 2012. On the basis of the proposed rules, the National Electronic Register of Road Transport Entrepreneurs will consist of the following records: firstly, entrepreneurs who are authorised to pursue the occupation of road transport operator, secondly, serious infringements referred to in Article. Article 6 (6) (a) 1 (a) (i) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) b of the Regulation, thirdly, persons who have been declared unable to manage the transport operations of the trader until such time as the good reputation is restored. The register shall be kept in the electronic system by the Chief Inspector of Road Transport. Data will be transferred to the register by the authorised authorities: the Chief Inspector of Road Transport, the Elders, city presidents on the rights of the county, provincial road transport inspectors, voivodship police chiefs, the heads of customs chambers, the Chief Labour Inspector, the Road Managers, the Head of the Border Guard. The entry into force of the proposed law will have a positive impact on the quality of the services provided by road transport operators. Thanks to the data collected in the register, the authorities responsible for the control of traders will be able to respond effectively and quickly to those committed by operators authorised to pursue the occupation of road transport operator and persons managing road transport breaches of their obligations or conditions of carriage by road both within the country and in other Member States of the European Union. This will improve road transport safety and trade in goods and create conditions for fair competition between carriers. Public and public access to the data contained in the register in the register of economic operators authorised to pursue the occupation of road transport operator will enable the customer of road transport to verify the reliability of transport operators and choose the carrier. It is worth noting that the creation of the National Electronic Register of Road Transport Entrepreneurs will enable Polish drivers carrying out international road transport in the territory of France to provide information on registration during road inspection in accordance with the new French regulations. All countries that deal with transport issues know that we have had serious problems with this, especially our carriers, so this is another positive thing about this law. The project also provides that the National Electronic Register of Road Transport Entrepreneurs will be established on 1 September 2017. The above deadline for the creation of the National Electronic Register of Road Transport Entrepreneurs results from the need to provide an appropriate time after the publication of the law for the execution of the public contract for the electronic system of the register and the creation of the system by the contractor selected in the public procurement procedure. In view of the fact that proceedings are pending against Poland in the Court of Justice of the European Union as to whether, by failing to establish a National Register of Electronic Road Transport Entrepreneurs and linking it to the national electronic registers of other Member States, the Republic of Poland has failed to fulfil its obligations, we consider that it is necessary to establish such a register and adopt this law urgently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u250	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Caesar Grabarczyk, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u251	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This law is valid for at least a few reasons: firstly, because the Polish road transport industry is one of the strongest in Europe. This is also confirmed by the data I received from the Minister of Infrastructure. In this respect, I formulated a question during our first debate on the government presentation. Since we have a large fleet, which competitors fear, it is important that Poland fulfil its obligations to adapt the provisions of the Road Transport Act to European requirements. There have been accusations just now against the previous government that it was not fast enough to proceed with the necessary changes, but it is worth recalling that we are already in October 2016. This means that for almost a year now, the new government has been responsible for preparing the relevant project. The project came in spring, but after all, we needed a lot of time to carry out additional discussions and arrangements between the social side and the government side. We started in May, I remind you. Today we are finishing work in the House on this project, but we needed months to do so. It is important that regulations concerning good reputation, as well as the National Register of Electronic Road Transport Entrepreneurs are introduced into the Polish legal system. The second reason why this regulation is important. The aim is to ensure that road transport meets all safety requirements when it comes to the carriage of goods, as well as people, as well as the safety of contractors, partners of Polish transport companies. This concept of good reputation, which we dealt with during the work on this law, is a key concept. The committee's report appears to respond to these needs. It can be said that the safety of road transport services will be increased. Of course, we will verify this theory in practice. This submission deserves support, which is why on behalf of the Civic Platform Club I declare that we will support this bill in the vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u252	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Sylvester Khrushch, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u253	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We, the Kukiz club15, also believe that this law is of great importance. And why is that? It is because the example of road transport has shown that thanks to diligence, innovation, savings can be developed in Poland a good industry. It is these people who have proved that one can be a leader in Europe, that one can be competitive, that a Polish brand can be a leading brand in Europe, even to the extent that Polish companies are pushing outside Europe. Few people today know that Polish companies have already prepared their lines coming even to Iran. Yes, this is the Polish road industry. And with all the protectionism of the countries of the old European Union, with what the French do through the Macron Regulation, with what the Germans do through the working time register, with what is happening in Calais - our entrepreneurs still show that they can be strong. The fact that tens of thousands of people, drivers, all the technical facilities work in this industry, that we drive many tens of thousands of modern, efficient cars, shows that we can. Now we, as a state, as Members, should of course help them. It is inexplicable why, by failing to introduce these EU directives that have been imposed on us, we put these people at risk of some loss, we expose them to things that, I don't know, in France, as we have heard, happen to them. During our work in committee, too, we saw, just during these negotiations, that the industry had done very well in its tasks. So on the government line - we MEPs - the industry was very hard work, and I think that's what all the clubs will confirm. There have been strong words here, but we've done a lot of good in this bill. And it is important to stress what my previous speakers have already said, that public access will certainly increase road safety - the industry wants it too - because it will eliminate companies, people who do not deserve a good reputation. In my opinion... We're not afraid of it. Let him be afraid of a small section of this industry that abuses the good name of our drivers and our transporters. I'm sure the quality of transport will improve, and I wouldn't worry about that. Here we will certainly continue to be a leader in Europe. What else is important here, as my previous speakers emphasized? We should adopt this bill as soon as possible. We, too, will vote in favour as a Kukiz club15 because this will help the industry. What threatens us in the proceedings at the Court, I hope it does not touch our country. We'll show you that we can, that we want, that we can do this quickly. So that here I give thanks to the industry, also to the Minister for what you did. It was obvious that we were all pushing this cart forward. We've cleaned up the negligence that was in the past during previous governments. It was a difficult job because we had to start it, we had to start a debate, a consultation, but I think they were really a big five with a plus and it's so upbuilding for the future. So that once again I stress that we as a Kukiz club15 will be in favour of this report, behind this law, because it serves this industry, it serves the development of Polish business. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u254	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Mirosław Suchon, the Modern Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u255	Thank you. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am pleased to present my position on the Government's draft law amending the Road Transport Act, print No. 459, presented in the committee's report in print No. 874. Ladies and gentlemen! This draft law is largely due to Poland's need to comply with the obligations imposed by a number of legal acts of the European Union to establish and maintain the National Electronic Register of Road Transport Entrepreneurs, who have obtained permission from the competent authority to pursue the occupation of road transport operator. The submission also includes specific provisions on good repute, as well as other provisions related to them in general, so I will not mention them here. High Izbo! As I mentioned in the introduction, it seems that the most important scope in the submission is the creation of the National Electronic Register of Road Transport Entrepreneurs. It will be part of the European system where data from the registers created by all the Member States of the Community are located. The basis for establishing a register at European level is the European Commission's assumption that the road transport market is to be a fair, regulated, safe market, ensuring that environmental standards are respected by professionals who respect the principles of fair competition. That register shall be registered in accordance with Article. Article 16 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Regulation No 1071/2009 must have each Member State. On the basis of the proposed provisions, the register will consist of three registers: the first is the register of undertakings authorised to pursue the occupation of road transport operator; the second will be the register of serious infringements; the third is the register of persons who have been found unable to manage the transport operations of the operator until the return to good repute. And at this point, it is difficult not to mention that this register should have existed for 4 years. This is a great negligence of the previous government, especially since Poland received the first warnings regarding its absence in 2012, i.e. 4 years ago, and in January this year. The European Commission has sued Poland to the Court of Justice because until then Poland has not created this register. Of course, it is difficult to move on to the agenda, because I don't think anyone can rationally explain why this compromise has taken place, especially since at least 25 countries in the Community have a register, i.e. they have managed to handle this task. It's also a pebble to the backyard of the current government. This could have been done earlier, of course. What is important here is the fact that it is not only Poland as a country that has problems, have problems, or could have them also our entrepreneurs. The absence of a register has for some time been a very serious problem for road transport companies, e.g. in the territory of the French Republic. In that case, traders who are not able to present the recovery mark from the register could not carry out road transport. The solution was found at the last minute, and if it weren't for that, our companies would be in serious trouble. So today's debate for the interests of our transport industry is very important, because let me just remind you that the lowest estimates are that transport has more than 6% of the share in GDP production, and that there are voices that it reaches more than 10%. It's really hard to believe that this area has been so underrated for years. Of course, it is difficult in the formula proposed by your marshal, the five-minute statements on behalf of the club, to refer comprehensively to the whole content of the project, which is why I focused on moving this most important area, all the more so because indeed my speakers, and especially the rapporteur of the committee, discussed very widely. all aspects related to this project. So, on the way to the end, I would like to point out that the Modern Posel Club has been very actively involved in the procession of this project. I think it's also such a little modern merit that this project at second reading is different in many places from the original presentation and, here we have to say openly, definitely better. Of course, we also need to thank the Minister, who, contrary to government practice, was open to real consultations with the transport environment. But I would also like to stress that both the president of the subcommittee and all the members attending the meetings worked very substantively and honestly, for which I warmly thank you. High Izbo! In view of my position, I would like to inform you that the Modern Posel Club will vote in favour of the draft law under consideration. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u256	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u257	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today we are practically finalizing work on a government bill amending the Road Transport Act. By listening to the statements of my predecessors, bearing in mind the way in which the procedure is carried out, the analysis of the project at committee meetings, bearing in mind the involvement of the Ministry, I would like to say that every important topic, every important issue can be conducted as a government project and carried out in a very fruitful manner. The process of this project is an example of this. I do not hide the fact that I am very pleased that Mr Poleczek, as he led the work of the committee and the subcommittee, has presented the aspects of this project in depth and intelligibly today. It is very important that in the area of the economy, in areas important to us, we can, and we want to talk constructively about solutions. As a club we will support, we will be in favour of this project, because we are aware of this and we always emphasise how important it is to regulate everything that concerns economic areas. This economy is an essential element of the country's development. By regulating this aspect, we also express our appreciation and respect for people in the transport and freight sector, and for their work, for all the actions they have taken to make this industry so significant on a national scale, but also for the European arena. That is why we will be in favour of this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u258	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, near Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u259	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the government draft law amending the Road Transport Act. This draft law is the fulfilment of Poland's obligations arising from its membership of the European Community. Its provisions govern the establishment and operation of the National Electronic Register of Road Transport Entrepreneurs, the creation of which requires the provisions of Regulation No 1071/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 October 2009 laying down common rules concerning the conditions for the occupation of road transport operator and repealing Council Directive 96/26/EC. This register will collect data from road transport operators and will be linked to national registers of road transport operators of other Member States of the European Union. Its task will be to facilitate access to current data of road transport operators, which will directly increase safety in this area by eliminating dishonest entrepreneurs. The construction of a new general register will be based on the existing register kept by the Chief Road Transport Inspector and the records kept in the old towns and cities on the rights of the county. It is foreseen that it will contain records of economic operators who are authorised to pursue the occupation of road transport operator, records of serious infringements and records of persons who have been found unable to manage the transport operations of the operator until good repute has been restored. The records of the procedated bill detail the data contained in each of these records. These regulations also provide for differentiated access to data contained in the national register, depending on where they are recorded. The data contained in the register of economic operators authorised to pursue the profession, with the exception of date and place of birth and place of residence, shall be made public and the data of the other two records shall be made available only to authorised authorities and to the Head of the Internal Security Agency after the application has been lodged at that time within 30 days of receipt of the application. The creation and operation of the National Electronic Register of Road Transport Entrepreneurs entails high costs. However, this is a solution which aims to increase the possibility of supervision of road transport operators. Given the positive aspects of the functioning of such a register and the fact that we are obliged to create such a register by a number of EU directives, the Free and Solidarni Circle will vote in favour of the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u260	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. If any of your fellow Members would like to speak, please. I'll close the list after I ask you the first question. Question time - 2 minutes. [[I thought it was a minute.]] Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u261	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Act contains a provision allowing the Chief Inspector of Road Transport to take immediate action to establish the National Register of Electronic Road Transport Entrepreneurs. There is concern from local governments. It is about the expenses that are to be incurred by the county and cities on the rights of the county in connection with the creation of the register. It is planned that for the creation of the register in 2017 they will incur an expenditure of 380 thousand. zł. What are the concrete estimates for these entities for the following years and can they count on the support of the State budget in this regard? Please respond in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u262	Thank you very much. Mr Sylwester Khrushch, Kukiz,15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u263	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I have a question. about the future of the industry. If we are talking about protectionism in Western Europe, about Macron regulations, if we are talking about minimum wage, and also about not introducing regulations on registers, did this not result, Minister, in the process that our companies will be easier to move business to Western countries? Is there even such a trend, or do we know it, or is it described? Because I heard in a few places that today it is easier to move a company from Poland to Germany or France and pay taxes than to be a Polish brand. So that's a question for the future. Do you know this process, or is it described, or is it not true? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u264	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u265	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you a question in two areas. The first concerns the register itself. The date of 1 September is, contrary to appearances, not a distant deadline, it is only a year for the implementation of an application that works. [[We moved it to December 31st.]] In the case of state registers, at least so far, there has been a huge problem not only to implement, but also to make it work. So I wanted to ask how advanced, if there are already advanced works, when you can expect to settle the tender and order this system. Is the date of September 1 real, will it be kept, or will this register be available a little bit earlier? And when do you plan to integrate this register with European records? That's one question. The second one, on the other hand, maybe a little bit of the topic next to it, but it's connected, and I think it's worth talking about here too. As of 1 January 2017, transport companies will be required to register a certificate of posting on the French Ministry of Labour's website by means of a system that will be on this website. At least that's what the announcements are. I wanted to ask the Minister whether the Ministry has information on this matter, whether it has taken any action even in the direction that this website is available to Polish entrepreneurs in the Polish language, because it is known to be in French and English. Question: "Is the Ministry planning to do something in this regard and, as I say, do you already have this information and will it actually be implemented?" Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u266	Thank you. Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u267	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Question one: Who has caused such great embarrassment in the international arena that we have not yet adopted the national electronic register of road transport operators? Second question: the Court of Justice and the European Union are under investigation. What are the consequences for us in the black script, I want to know, and will transport companies in the country feel them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u268	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u269	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As for the fact that this register is needed, it is good that these works are already on completion, because we know that it took a little longer and it would have been better if it had worked earlier, but it was good that it was. And now I have a question: Will having this register, or will the launch of this register reduce the temptations of some European countries that create bureaucratic barriers for our transport companies? We meet with such signals that we are really trying to reduce the activity of Polish transport companies in the West. Will this register somehow block out these bureaucratic barriers? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u270	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction of Mr Jerzy Szmit.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u271	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like, on behalf of all those who have worked hard on this bill, to thank you for the kind and good words that have come in our direction. Here I would also like to thank President Jerzy Poleczk, President of the subcommittee and during these works, which were difficult, I do not hide. Because, on the one hand, we had to meet the requirements of the European Union, European regulations, which was not easy, and on the other hand, we had to prepare a law that would not be too restrictive for our entrepreneurs. I'm consciously speaking too much. That's because where we talk about offences, about violations of law, there's got to be some kind of sanction for it. The point is that they are not destructive so that they are not systemic and do not lead to a regression of this industry in Poland. I think that after this really difficult but very constructive discussion with the industry, with experts and with all the ladies and gentlemen of the Members, we have achieved this. High Izbo! I answer the specific questions asked by ladies and gentlemen of Members. As far as costs for old age are concerned, we have indeed examined this issue, but today we do not provide for additional costs for the day-to-day operation of the system, because in general the system will be operated by the main road transport inspector and there will be all this work done. Indeed, in the powiats themselves, there will be existing registration operations, but nothing additional happens except what is in the duties of the old age today. Second question: Is there a trend in the departure of transport companies from Poland? It can never be ruled out that one of the entrepreneurs will find it better to register in one country or another. We know that we are in the European Union today, and we simply have to deal with it, but we are in constant contact with our entrepreneurs, and we do not hear such a strong trend. So I hope that really these current regulations in Poland - I am talking about the current Polish law - are good enough to allow the development of this sector of the economy. Besides, there's evidence of that. Since Poland is today the leader in road transport, it follows from something, also from those regulations which are in Poland, but also, of course, from the resourcefulness and great work of our entrepreneurs and from the fact that they were able to take advantage of this opportunity. As far as the introduction of the law is concerned, I would like to stress that the mere adoption of the law does not solve the problem. This must be done, a very serious process of implementing this law. There must be tenders, there must be appropriate apparatus, legal apparatus, but there must also be technical equipment to do this. The General Inspector for Road Transport will be responsible for this. These preparations have not started today or will not start tomorrow, after the adoption of the law, but the General Inspector of Road Transport has already undertaken such preparations. Specifications of the essential terms of the contract are prepared. This will have to be slightly modified due also to the amendments that were proposed during the legislative work. I don't think there are any unusual threats here. Moreover, today's decision of the Committee on Infrastructure has been postponed from 1 September to 31 December 2017, so these few months will be so safe, I hope, by way of margin, although we will try to ensure that this is adopted accordingly earlier. How is the application of Loi Macron law in France carried out and how much does the Polish government try not to make it difficult for Polish entrepreneurs? On the one hand, we have this situation, that so far we do not have any signals that restrictions on the introduction of this law in the French Republic would affect Polish entrepreneurs, but that this condition should continue, we are talking in different directions and on different levels. This issue will also be raised during intergovernmental consultations, which will take place on 13 October in Warsaw, between the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the Republic of Poland. We have also reported this issue as the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction to the agenda so that we can talk about it, but these discussions are ongoing. We also want to address the Calais case during these meetings, which is the threat that arises at the time when... This does not apply only to Polish transporters, because unfortunately there immigrants do not choose national trucks that they want to cross the channel and get to the UK. However, since 1/4 of this transport, these trucks come from Poland, this is the most serious topic for us, for Poland. Question: "Who led to this situation?" Here's what I'm gonna say, ladies and gentlemen. I think it was clear from the discussion, the facts were shown, Mr Polakzek presented his work calendar, so I don't think I need to comment on this anymore. On the other hand, I would like to say that tomorrow, 5 October, we will have a judgment in Strasbourg - that is also the next question - in this case and it is hard to expect that this will be a different sentence than a negative one for Poland, because the judgment concerns whether this law has been introduced or not. The answer is one: it wasn't. Therefore, let us not expect any mild judgment here. On the other hand, I would like to calm down, because it is not a matter of scaring ourselves here and talking about some negative situations that may affect Poland. Of course, we will appeal this judgment and if we have already adopted the law and show that we are on a very efficient and unambiguous implementation path, I think it is clear that we should avoid ailments as Poland. I stress: as Poland, as a country, because cases in this manner are being conducted as always against a specific country of the European Union. This is also the answer to the sixth question whether Polish entrepreneurs will eventually feel the effects. I believe that neither Poland nor Polish entrepreneurs will feel this effect. On the other hand, if the law enters into force and the register is implemented, we will gain credibility. This was also the case during the debate, and I completely agree with that. One last question, bureaucratic restrictions. Ladies and gentlemen, I think there was also a discussion on this subject during the subcommittee and committee deliberations. We want these bureaucratic restrictions to be eliminated. Nevertheless, as far as the register is concerned, I will say this: it is not a Polish initiative. We try to serve Polish entrepreneurship, serve Polish entrepreneurs, as well as that Poland did not introduce, would no longer be an excuse just to introduce restrictive regulations such as MiLoG in France, concerning transport, Loi Macron. There are also other countries that announce the introduction of regulations on posted workers, and they also announce that this is intended to apply to transport, so this is the sector of the economy that we are talking about. I think that the Government of Law and Justice in this field is really very active and we are doing everything we can to ensure that these problems affecting transport are as small as possible. On the other hand, we are wondering - and this is what I am talking about in front of the High Chamber - at all, that Poland should make a proposal on a European Union scale which will entail a far-reaching liberalisation of transport, i.e. a reduction of restrictions, a ban on such restrictions as we are talking about here, so that transport is also part of the European economy, which actually benefits from these fundamental principles of the European Union. It is about the free movement of goods, the free movement of ideas and the fact that the rules that apply within the European Union are the least fragmented market, i.e. dividing the market into individual countries, so that transport, which by nature must combine, can serve as best as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u272	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of the rapporteur for the committee by Mr Jerzy Polak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u273	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As rapporteur for this draft amendment to the Road Transport Act under consideration, I would first of all like to thank representatives of all parliamentary clubs for their speeches and for the conclusions which, in one sentence, boils down to the fact that this government project seems to have the support of the House as a whole, which is not only a symbolic but also a substantive proof of inter-club cooperation in the course of its work. I would like, in particular, to signal to the High House that the government has also shown considerable flexibility in relation to the original presentation, removing from the Government's submission all overregulations in relation to the requirements of European law, which was also signalled at the very beginning of the work by the environmental organisation involved in international road transport. By the way, second point. This is concrete because it is a concrete policy. Some of our previous speakers pointed out that 1/4 of the international transport market carried out by Polish carriers requires quite active state policy. I would just like to draw attention to the fact that they have been signalled to the High House, to the Committee on Threats, for example, related to the consequences of delays. This appeared in the context of the new French law, on the basis of which a number of additional bureaucratic requirements have been introduced since 1 July, and the freight exchange in road transport Poland - France, carried out by Polish carriers, is over EUR 15 billion per year. Finally, the point that may not apply to the law itself as such, but, I think, is certain that, as I say, the request to the government, because here also during the discussion on this project, some kind of proposals have emerged concerning the cost of introducing a national electronic register of international transport carriers. Here some representatives of the carrier environment pointed out that these costs are relatively much higher than those incurred by other countries by implementing these regulations earlier. The effects of the implementation of this law in 2016 and 202025 are planned at PLN 55,8 million. Of course, these are not only the costs of the register, but I would recommend here that careful consideration be given to and examination of this very practical aspect of the application of practical solutions which will be operated by public administrations, institutions which will be associated with the implementation of these provisions of the law, in particular the chief inspector of road transport. Thank you again for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u274	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. I'm ordering a recess until the hour. 7:30. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 17 min. 55 hours 19 min 34]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: First reading of the citizens' bill on the restriction of trade on Sundays (print No. 870). I ask the representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee of Mr Alfred Bujara to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u275	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! Trade workers! Unions of Solidarity with the Federation of Trade Unions Workers of Production and Services Cooperatives in Poland! Affiliates at the OpZZ! Unions of Solidarity together with the Chairman of the National Commission Peter Duda at the head! Dear Polish entrepreneurs, who were to sit at the gallery today, but, Mr. Marshal, not all were allowed in, which I ask you to make such a decision. For these people, for trade workers, this is a special day. It's a holiday. I think they will be admitted to the Polish Parliament, because this is also our parliament. Please make such a decision, they're waiting in the pass office. High Izbo! There is no doubt that the celebration of Sunday belongs to the achievements of our over a thousand-year-old Polish tradition. This is obvious, and according to this tradition it is a day off from work. Even during communism, the opening of the fight against Christianity was not so great an attack on the Polish tradition, on the right of Poles to cultivate the faith of their fathers, which was done during the last 26 years of free Poland. This was done in the name of economic freedom, putting it above all other freedoms and at their expense. Therefore, 4 October 2016 is an extremely important day for more than one million trade workers expecting that more than 26 years after Poland regains its sovereignty will finally cease to be treated in its own country as second-class citizens, that they will finally regain the right to normal family life and to spend Sundays with their loved ones. Trade workers are mostly women: girls, wives, mothers, grandmothers and daughters who have been deprived of this basic right. I am convinced that this Sejm will change this, which is why we are proposing a bill on the restriction of trade on Sundays. What is very important, the initiator of this project is not only NSZZ Solidarity. The Legislative Initiative Committee included a wide representation of social organisations and associations of Polish entrepreneurs from the trade industry. A bill that I have the honour of Today to present to you is the result of a wide consultation and consensus of many environments. The purpose of this Act, which should be known to the public, is not a total ban on trade on Sundays. However, its adoption is intended to civilise trade on this day, following the example of many Western European countries, while respecting the rights, interests of workers, entrepreneurs and consumers. On 2 September we placed over 518 thousand Marshal Marek Kuchciński in the hands of Marshal Marek Kuchciński. signatures, more than half a million signatures of citizens' support for the bill on reducing trade on Sundays. Thousands more signatures are still coming down to us. The total number of signatures that we have managed to collect shows not only how much public support is available for reducing trade on Sundays. It is also a testimony to how important a matter is in society that we will be considering. The bill on reducing trade on Sundays is not an invention of Solidarity and entrepreneurs or any other organisation. It's an answer to the needs of citizens. This civil voice should not be underestimated by the state as having power on behalf of its citizens. We hope that the time when politicians, without blinking an eye, put hundreds of thousands of signatures submitted under civil drafts of laws or referendums, definitely ended with the passing of the previous governing coalition. In the election campaign before last year's parliamentary elections, you all, as you are sitting here, stressed the need to increase the participation of citizens in the exercise of power. Today it's time to say, "I'm checking." High Izbo! The solutions proposed in the citizens' project will reduce trade on Sundays to the minimum necessary. The purpose of this law is to lay down rules for restricting trade in commercial establishments and in traders on Sundays, excluding a few Sundays a year where the need for trade is dictated by a particular need to meet the needs of the population, and to establish rules for the hourly restriction of trade on Sundays, Christmas Eve and the Holy Saturday. In addition, the provisions of the Act provide for derogations from the abovementioned restrictions by establishing economic operators which, according to the scope of services or the form of activity, will be able to operate on Sunday. It is worth repeating to correct the media contradictions that the aim of this law is to limit trade on Sundays, not a total ban. Our goal is not to bring about a situation in which basic foods cannot be bought on Sunday. The project includes a long list of types of commercial facilities that will be able to operate on Sunday. Active on this day will be possible, among others. petrol stations, bakeries, shops located at railway stations and airports or kiosks with press. They will also be able to trade small neighborhood shops, provided that their owner is behind the counter and not the employee employed there. Taking into account the economic interests of entrepreneurs and the needs of consumers, the project also provides for the establishment of seven so-called. commercial Sundays during the year. Stores will be able to be open, among others. on Sundays preceding Christmas and Easter, as well as during the periods during which sales are organized, and before and after holidays. Currently, trade rules in commercial establishments are only regulated in Article. 151 of the Labour Code, § 3 of that provision provides that work on Sundays is permitted in commercial establishments to carry out the work necessary in view of their social usefulness and the daily needs of the population. As a result, trade on Sundays is legally permitted and is a common phenomenon, although it is not possible e.g. consider the operation of construction or clothing shops on Sunday to be necessary to meet the everyday needs of the population. The authors of this project in the course of the analysis of legal and economic considerations considered that changes to the Labour Code, which would restore the ban on work on Sundays, as in the case of holidays, were insufficient. There is a legitimate concern that entrepreneurs would use other forms of work, for example, despite the prohibition of employment on Sundays. an order contract which is not governed by the provisions of the Labour Code. Civil law agreements are already in place in the trade sector, especially in large-scale shops, to reduce labour costs. Only in the first half of 2014 the Labour Inspectors of the State Labour Inspection examined 1,104 contracts, of which 403, i.e. 36,5% , were concluded in violation of the law. For this reason, it is necessary to proceed with the Trade Reduction Act rather than the employment ban on Sundays. The bill also provides for a ban on other sales activities in shops on Sundays, such as e.g. sorting or storage of products, which will effectively guarantee the right to work-free Sundays also for persons employed in peri-sale areas. The distribution, logistics or storage centres providing services for trade are a separate group of entities which are expected to restrict the performance of activities. The project's creators are also concerned with the protection of Sundays free of work in those entities that employ several hundred thousand employees and contractors on a national scale. Of course, the authors of this bill realize that closing on Sundays of various types of logistics and distribution centres, which supply goods to shops located not only in Poland but also in neighbouring countries, is impossible, therefore for people employed in these entities the project provides an exception, i.e. the possibility of hiring on Sundays subject to the consent of the employee and for additional remuneration, and in accordance with the annual limit laid down in the provisions of the Act under procedure in which the work could be provided. These are 24 Sundays for a person, so every other Sunday would be free for these workers. On the one hand, this solution will safeguard the interests of entrepreneurs and on the other hand reduce the need to employ workers on Sundays to the minimum necessary. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, You often refer to European values and standards on this platform. Recently, even a parliamentary circle called European Democrats has been established. So let's look at the issue of trade on Sundays in Western European countries. Trade on that day is prohibited or limited in the vast majority of them. Rules governing this issue are in place, among others. in Austria, Germany, France, Switzerland and even in the UK, Belgium and Denmark. In Germany, the legal protection of Sunday comes directly from the Constitution. In Western countries, trade restrictions on Sundays have not resulted in the mass bankruptcy of shops and dismissals of workers. The citizens of Germany or Austria do not die of hunger or thirst on Sundays. In other words, life goes on there completely normal, even though most stores are closed on Sundays. Paradoxically, today in Poland, representatives of large Western networks protest against restricting trade on Sundays, who respect workers' right to rest on Sundays and to live a normal family life in their home countries. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been repeated here for years that we must close the gap between us and the West. It is high time to adopt European standards also on labour rights. The pursuit of profit and economic growth can no longer be based solely on cheap labour and exploitation of Polish workers. [[Applause]] This model of development is the way to nowhere. We have to end this once and for all. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Let us now move on to the most important issues, i.e. the impact of the implementation of the Trade Reduction Act on Sundays. As a representative of the trade union, I will allow myself to begin with the impact of the regulations contained in the Act on the situation of workers. Currently, in trade, especially in the segment of shopping galleries, supermarkets and hypermarkets, as well as food discounts, it is common to employ workers in an equivalent working time system. This means that Sunday is treated as an ordinary day scheduled in a schedule for which employees do not receive an additional salary. In such a system, instead of Sundays, employees receive a day off on another day of the week. This state of affairs completely disorganizes their personal life and prevents them from living a normal family life. On the other hand, Sunday as a social day is absolutely irreplaceable. Well, so the cashier in the hypermarket gets a day off instead of Sunday. Tuesday when her husband's at work and the kids at school? Because of the unjustified obligation to work on Sundays, not only trade workers, but also their families and, above all, children suffer. In the course of today's discussion on the project, the argument may be that instead of Sundays, it would be better to pay extra for the work on that day. However, such an instrument does not solve the problem in any way and is not accepted by the employees themselves. The own research carried out by the National Secretariat of Banks, Trade and Insurance of NSZZ (Solidarity) in a group of almost 1000 people employed in large-scale shops and discounts has been provided with clear results indicating the need for employees to have a free Sunday. We did it before we started working on the bill to figure out what the employee's expectations were. Only 2% the employees concerned considered that it would be beneficial to pay an additional salary for the work on those days. In addition, the desire for workers to have free Sundays rather than work allowances is dictated by the amount of basic wages in the trade sector. In the case of an average wage not exceeding the minimum wage for work allowances on Sundays, workers would consider that they would be unnoticed and economically insensitive. In addition, there is a great concern that large foreign trade networks, masters in saving on Polish workers, will find a way to compensate themselves for the possible allowance for work on Sundays by lowering other components of the employee's salary. This could result in workers having neither Sundays free nor additional money free. Working on Sundays is also a heavy burden on the health of workers. This is confirmed by the study "The impact of improving psychosocial working conditions on reducing economic costs in companies undergoing modernization and adaptation processes" carried out by the Institute of Labor Medicine in Łódź and the National Commission of NSZZ "Solidarity." These studies show that over 93% The need to work on Sundays has been found to be a burdensome factor and a health risk to the affected trade workers. In addition, the results of the research carried out in the project revealed a high level of stressfulness of trade work. In turn, studies undertaken by the Healthy Work Association confirm that reducing work on weekends, especially on Sundays, is socially desirable for health reasons. The need to work in conflict with potential non-professional roles is a serious stressor. People working on weekends are more likely to experience pain, musculoskeletal problems, insomnia, psychosomatic problems. More often and more often, their emotional exhaustion affects them, and more often they resent them. Difficulty in reconciling work schedules with non-professional life and inability to perform the role of a private parent or spouse even 30 times increase the risk of serious mental illness. What is worth pointing out, the cost of treatment of employees of trade covers the entire Polish society, while the profits associated with this are mainly derived from foreign networks. High Izbo! Contrary to the opinion repeated in the media, reducing trade on Sundays will not result in workers being fired. I've heard a lot of numbers falling in this context: 30,000, 50,000 and even 100,000. jobs. All these estimates have one common feature: they have not been supported by any reliable research. It's nothing more than speculation and demagogy. [[Applause]] The reduction in employment in trade once the free Sunday is restored will not be for several reasons. Firstly, the restoration of free Sundays will result in an increase in trade turnover of around 5%. in the first 2 years of operation of the law. Then the turnover will be normalized to the level prior to the introduction of the law. The Hungarian example points to an increase in trade turnover of more than 5% due to the trade ban introduced in 2015 on Sundays. Although the Hungarian Government finally resigned from free Sundays in trade, the data on growth in turnover is hard evidence that reducing trade on Sundays will not result in a decrease in trade turnover. Where does this increase in turnover come from? Well, before Sunday off, consumers will simply buy in reserve. A study carried out by the National Secretariat of Banks, Trade and Services of the NSZZ.Solidarity in 2015 is also confirmed. We then examined the turnover of the shops on the days preceding Sunday 24 May Green Christmas, i.e. the day legally free from trade, from work. It turned out that the total turnover on Friday and Saturday before Sunday free was about 6% higher than the total turnover on Friday, Saturday and Sunday the following week in which Sunday in trade was a working day. Therefore, since there is no risk of a fall in turnover after the return of free Sundays, there is no indication of any risk of a reduction in employment. Secondly, the thesis on the mass dismissal of workers after the reduction of trade on Sundays is not justified in the context of the current situation on the labour market. According to data from the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, the unemployment rate was in August this year. 8,5% And she's been the lowest in 25 years. The good situation on the labour market makes trade currently lacking around 9% employees, i.e. about 100,000. employment. Therefore, the threat of dismissal may be put between fairy tales. Thirdly, lastly, once again, it should be stressed that black visions concerning the mass lay-offs of workers after the return of free Sundays are mainly carried out by representatives of large foreign trade networks. Meanwhile, in their stores in Poland in the last 10 years employment has decreased, depending on the network, from 40 to 60%. The duties that used to be performed by two or three employees today need to be met by one person. You don't have to be a unionist or an expert on the labour market to find out. Just go shopping at a supermarket or discount, there you can see how employees run between shelves, are also responsible for filling in the shelves, keeping the store clean, unloading the goods, baking the bread and fulfilling many other duties. [[Applause]] In addition, when the cashier queue gets too long, these employees are called by the bell to sit at the cashier and serve their customers. Ask these employees if they're worried they'll lose their jobs after the Sundays are restored. At best, their reaction will be an explosion of laughter. They know that if shops tried to reduce employment even more, they would simply cease to function. Today we see in shops announcements: I will accept an employee, in big and small ones. So we finally have the economic economy to bring back Sunday free. Moreover, networks threatening to fire in Poland in their stores in their home countries employ half as many employees as in stores of comparable size operating in our country. This is clearly indicated by Eurostat data. The Polish employee must do the work that two workers do in France or Germany. In addition, he receives several times lower wages, and sometimes four times lower wages. [[Applause]] This is another example of differences in the treatment of workers by the same commercial networks in Western countries and Poland. In parent countries, these networks respect workers' rights to free Sundays, decent working conditions and wages, while the Polish worker is supposed to work like a slave and earn profits, and it is best not to speak on his issues. [[Applause]] And if he wants to join a union, he's being harassed, as we have evidence and court decisions. [[That's what I'm saying.]] [[Voice from the hall: Holy only on holidays.]] Is this a free market, ladies and gentlemen? Are these European standards? No, ladies and gentlemen, this is exploitation and treatment of our country as colonies, as we have been talking about for years. [[Applause]] And I think it's time for this hyper-exploitation, as the workers themselves say, to end up in our country, and that's what we're going to ask you to do today. Because this bill is, I think, the beginning of these changes. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Speaking of Sunday free, it must also be emphasized its special importance, the holiness of this day for believers, for our society firmly rooted in Christian culture. From this point of view, I would like to express my heartfelt gratitude for the huge support our initiative has received from the Church, from the parish throughout Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, I come from Silesia, so speaking of the spiritual aspect of Sunday, let me quote the words of the Upper Silesian metropolitan Fr. Archbishop Wiktora Skworca, recently spoken in a place special to every Silesian citizen and every employee in this region, i.e. in the Sanctuary of Our Lady of Justice and Social Love in the Silesian Bakers. The Archbishop said: Sunday is the day of the Lord and the day of man. That's what it's all about, to return Sunday to the man, to every man, because Sunday is not a luxury, an exclusive luxury for the rich. Sunday is for everyone, it is democratic, and the state should protect it by law as a fundamental social bond, like holiness. That's what Fr. Archbishop Victor Skworc during this year's pilgrimage of women and girls to the bakery sanctuary. Let me repeat, ladies and gentlemen, because these are important words for us Poles, which not everyone wants to understand: Sunday is sanctity, Sunday is a fundamental social bond, and the state should protect it by law. State - that is, parliament. [[Applause]] High Seym! The reduction of trade on Sundays will benefit not only workers but also entrepreneurs. Just look at the gallery to find out. There are representatives of Polish entrepreneurs from the trade industry with us today. I hope they've already entered the gallery. It's a pleasure to welcome you too. Polish entrepreneurs, together with the Solidarity and other social organisations, set up a legislative initiative committee, together with us. signatures under the bill. They deserve a great deal of gratitude for this. However, entrepreneurs would not be involved in this initiative if it was contrary to their interests. Polish entrepreneurs know that free Sunday is a good solution for employees, for entrepreneurs, for society as a whole. I will no longer repeat the argument about the increase in turnover of stores after the reduction of trade on Sundays. This thread was already exhausted in the earlier part of the speech. However, I will tell you what the picture of trade in Poland looks like today, after 26 years of conducting a policy of supporting foreign trade networks at all costs at the expense of domestic entrepreneurs and Polish workers. Already in the early 1990s foreign trading networks were created in our country conditions of operation incomparably superior to those of domestic entrepreneurs. As a result, foreign networks dominated the retail market in our country, and from year to year they gradually expel Polish entrepreneurs from this market. According to data from Businessweek Poland, the number of stores in Poland decreased by 300 thousand at the end of 2015. In the following six months of this year, 4200 retail outlets disappeared, while in previous years up to 6 and 7 thousand retail outlets were closed down. per year. First of all, small family shops disappear from the market, which cannot compete with foreign markets and discounts. The reduction of trade on Sundays, while making it possible for small shops to operate on that day, provided that their owners are behind the counter, will allow, although to a small extent, a level playing field between small shops and large trading networks. Today, similar regulations apply to holidays, holidays. These days, the owners can also open their shops. As the entrepreneurs themselves point out, this is an opportunity for them to make up for their losses over the weeks, and often the only chance to stay on the market. The aspect of matching the opportunities of domestic entrepreneurs with competitive foreign networks by reducing trade on Sundays should also be highlighted in the context of recent events related to the so-called. commercial tax. The purpose of this tax was to be among others. just supporting small domestic trade. In a situation where the European Commission has blocked trade tax, the restriction of trade on Sundays may at present be the only effective instrument in this area. Polish entrepreneurs, including those operating larger establishments or commercial networks, indicate that they are currently hostages of the market situation. On the one hand, competing with foreign networks, they have to open their shops on Sundays and on the other hand, they are not economically profitable. The turnover achieved on that day does not cover the costs associated with the operation of shops. In an even worse situation there are traders running shops in shopping malls. In their case, the opening of the store on Sundays is linked to severe financial penalties imposed by gallery administrators. The opponents of trade restrictions on Sundays stress that this is an attempt on the freedom to conduct business. If this is what freedom is supposed to look like, that you're either opening a store on Sundays, or we're gonna punish you, and we're gonna let go of the bags, then all we're gonna do is congratulate you. High Izbo! Restoring free Sundays in large-scale trade is also tangible benefits for the state budget. The purchasing activities carried out by consumers will be spread over 6 days rather than 7 days, and the burden of Sunday shopping will be postponed to Friday and Saturday. For the State budget, this means VAT, CIT or PIT revenue at the unchanged level and will increase in the initial period due to the increased turnover of stores on the days following Sunday. There is also no justification for the concern for VAT losses related to the reduction of trade on Sundays. Most purchases are made in the form of chain supplies, where the tax obligation for each supplier arises at the time of delivery, as amended as from 1 January 2014. However, it is possible that the tax obligation arises not at the time of the sale and the delivery to the commercial establishment of the goods with the date set out in the contract. In practice, this means that the omission of Sunday as a delivery day will not mean a tax obligation for suppliers and recipients of goods on those days. A similar situation is possible when the seller forbids the transfer of ownership of the product when it is paid for it. The goods can therefore be stored and the law provides for the use of permits for rapidly spoiling products. It should also be stressed that some of the services in trade are provided on a continuous basis - Article. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 VAT Act. In conclusion, closing some of the shops on Sundays will not mean a loss to the State budget for VAT. There is also no concern because of the shift of sales turnover to other days, especially the days preceding Sunday. Moreover, the reduction of trade on Sundays is expected to result in a shift in tax burden to catering, entertainment, cultural and recreational sectors due to increased social demand for such services on Sundays. For this reason, the revenue to the budget is expected to amount to about PLN 400 million. In addition, taking into account the above-mentioned 5% increase in turnover of commercial establishments by transferring the purchase by customers to other days of the week, revenues from the sale of food products and non-alcoholic beverages to the State budget are forecast at PLN 1419 million per year. Of course, this situation, as I mentioned earlier, will not last forever, because after a certain period it will return to the level before the law. Speaking of the benefits of implementing the law for the state budget, it is also important to mention the issue of tax avoidance in our country by foreign trade networks and the transfer of earned profits abroad. The secret is that the big trading networks, using e.g. various types of tax optimization instruments, pay very small taxes in our country or even do not pay them at all. This problem has been discussed several times in this House, for example in the context of the bill on the retail tax mentioned above. Today we know that the powerful lobby of large commercial networks has effectively led to the European Commission's blockage of this tax, and at least until new legal regulations in this area are developed, these networks will continue to avoid paying taxes in Poland. In this context it is impossible not to mention once again the positive impact of the Act on reducing trade on Sundays on increasing the chances of competing domestic trade in confrontation with foreign networks. Polish entrepreneurs do not make profits abroad, do not avoid paying taxes, as their foreign competitors do. This is not because they are honest, hardworking people. There's another, much more prosaic reason. Polish entrepreneurs, especially small ones, simply cannot afford to hire a staff of lawyers, tax law experts, who specialise in inventing legal loopholes to avoid paying taxes. Paradoxically, the fact that a large part of Polish merchants, due to market dominance by foreign trading networks today operate on the verge of bankruptcy, is the best guarantee that they pay taxes honestly. [[Applause]] Restoring free Sundays in trade can be the first small step towards reducing the unjustified privileges of foreign trading networks in our country and reducing their foreign profits and tax evasion. As a union, we never avoided talking about it. There was no money to pay, and we knew this was the case for years. We said it loudly, clearly in the media, but no one would listen to us. High Izbo! The proposed bill does not imply a burden on the state budget or the budgets of local government units. The draft law generally does not provide for the need for implementing acts, since the general assumptions are directly based on its content, but it should be appropriate to issue a regulation of the Minister of Finance on the establishment of a template for the level of turnover achieved in relation to the minimum for lead sales laid down in the law. The proposal tightens the sanction for breaching the trade restriction rules, which so far covered only the prohibition of hiring workers on holidays in accordance with the Labour Code. In practice, the control of this ban was ineffective - and in previous terms it was not even the will - due to the limited staff resources of the State Labour Inspection in relation to the number of commercial establishments. Another flaw is the amount of the penalty imposed by PIP inspectors. According to the proposed form of the law, the violation of the trade ban on Sundays will be governed by criminal law. This means more effective respect for the law and more measurable penalties for those who break the ban. The proposed bill on the restriction of trade on Sundays is not contrary to European Union law. As I have already mentioned, the statutory restriction of trade on Sundays is not an exception on a European Union scale. In many European Union countries, trading facilities are closed on Sundays. In the light of the case law of the European Court of Justice, the government of a Member State of the European Union may prohibit and authorise the conduct of commercial activities on Sundays, as this reflects certain political and economic choices to the extent that they are intended to correspond to national or regional socio-cultural characteristics, provided that the restrictive effects of Community trade which may result from restrictions do not go beyond the inherent effects of such rules. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Today I presented to you a draft law, which is expected by hundreds of thousands of trade workers and their families, as well as Polish traders from the trade industry; a project that comprehensively regulates trade on Sundays, adapting Polish regulations in this respect to the standards in force in the Western EU countries; a project which was created as a result of a broad consensus of many environments and which will have a positive impact on the interests of Polish workers and entrepreneurs. It is really high time for Western European countries to start catching up in terms of labour standards. To think that once in Poland what we are fighting for was the norm. It is hard to imagine a better time to regulate civilising trade on Sundays in our country. We have the lowest unemployment in more than 20 years, we have the social permission for these necessary changes. According to a recent CBOS study 61% Poles and Poles are in favour of restricting trade on Sundays. Only 32% are opposed to this solution, which is twice as low. Ladies and gentlemen, we knew this by collecting signatures, during the holiday period, we managed to collect over half a million. Poles were very happy to sign the project. They understood what it was like to work on Sundays, and they understood the nuisance that every day, but especially on Sundays, exists among trade workers. Today, a group was placed at the control of the government, which placed the family at the heart of social and economic life. The increase in the minimum wage, the establishment of a minimum hourly rate, the 500-plus family programme and the next pro-social and pro-working programmes announced and implemented by the government by Prime Minister Beata Szydło are an expression of new and better quality in Polish politics. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, these solutions have been taken advantage of by a large proportion of trade workers, and I thank you on behalf of these people. We very much hope that the next step of these positive changes will be to give employees the right to celebrate and relax on Sunday with their family. Otherwise, almost one million Polish families will continue to be treated in their own country as second-class citizens - just as trade workers speak of themselves. 21. the postulate of the historic August agreement signed on 31 August 1980 in Gdansk talked about the introduction of all Saturdays free of work. Today, trade workers and more than half a million citizens who have signed up for a citizens' bill are already claiming, not even Saturdays off, but the absolute minimum: the right to work-free Sundays. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, it's so little. These workers claim the right to have Sunday dinner with their family, the right to go on a Sunday walk with their children, the right to share in Sunday Mass. Some say that reducing trade on Sundays is an attempt on their freedom. We answer them: One man's freedom cannot be realized at the expense of enslavement to another person. [[Applause]] Freedom to spend Sundays walking through shopping malls cannot be exercised at the expense of trade workers and their families, their right to celebrate Sundays. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, freedom has its limits, too. Once it's over, there's only enslavement, exploitation, and human harm. [[Applause]] which we, as trade workers, are experiencing. We need to talk about this out loud, see if anyone can hear us. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee of the Legislative Initiative and has passed - as I mentioned - half a million Polish citizens, and above all employed trade workers, please accept the bill presented, hand it over to committee work and pass the law. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u276	Thank you very much to the representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee. I would like to welcome all the people, representatives of the citizens' legislative initiative, listening to our debate from the gallery. [[Applause]] The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please, Mr Jan Mosiński, the Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u277	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! President of the Legislative Initiative Committee. I was honoured to present to the High House a statement by the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice concerning the citizens' bill on the restriction of trade on Sundays, print No. 870. It should be noted with respect that the initiator of the citizens' bill on the restriction of trade on Sundays is the National Secretariat of Banks, Trade and Insurance NSZZ.Solidarity. The Committee also included other trade unions, employers' organisations in the trade sector and social associations and organisations, including others. The Polish Crafts Association, food cooperatives, the Association, the General Council of Trade and Services Associations, the Congregation for Industry and Commerce, the Catholic Action, the Polish Chamber of Liquid Fuels and the Polish Supermarket Group. The Polish Episcopate also supported the efforts of the Legislative Initiative Committee. The citizens' project concerns the definition of rules for restricting trade in commercial establishments and traders on Sundays, excluding a few Sundays a year where the need for trade is dictated by a particular need to meet the needs of the population and to establish rules for the hourly restriction of trade on Christmas Eve and the Great Saturday. According to the Parliamentary Club, the Law and Justice Society, which cannot rest and has no time to devote itself to the family, destroys the family first and then the basics of society itself. That is why we welcome the citizens' initiative, which is intended to bring back Sundays to families, by quoting the slogan of one of the actions organised by the Solidarity Fund. Applicants in the draft are based on similar solutions that exist in many European countries. It is worth noting that the projectors propose a restriction on trade, not a total ban on trade, which in their numerous media statements raised some liberal environments focused on the benches of the parliamentary opposition. The draft law restricting trade on Sundays contains numerous exceptions to these restrictions. It should be noted that it will be possible to be active on this day, among others. petrol stations, bakeries, shops located at railway stations and airports or kiosks with press. They will also be able to run small neighborhood shops, provided that their owners are behind the counter. Such records are the result of a compromise between applicants and representatives of Polish trade. There is another aspect that needs to be addressed, namely the problem of the use of workers by working on Sundays. Here there must be no lack of deep reflection, because regardless of religious affiliation, the free market approach to the subject must be stated that everyone deserves to rest in the family or in the family. [[Applause]] It should be noted that the legislative initiative directly affects more than one million people, especially women working on Sundays and holidays. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The analysis of the citizens' draft law raises the question whether the entry into force of the law will result in a fall in sales and an increase in unemployment as the number of trading days will decrease. Of course, we will discuss this during committee work. At this point, however, it is worth recalling the assurance of the authors of the bill that the restriction of trade on Sundays will not only result in a reduction in turnover in trade and thus the need to reduce employment, but will even increase the turnover of shops in the early period. According to the applicants, the revenue from the sale of food and non-alcoholic beverages into the budget will increase by more than PLN 1.4 billion. So much for the applicants. It should be noted that, in the proposed scope, the restriction of trade is not contrary to EU law and is therefore allowed in accordance with the principle, which is not prohibited. It is up to the Member States to decide whether or not stores can be opened on that day. In some countries where there are no specific rules on the opening hours of shops on Sundays and holidays, it is customary. There are countries where the total ban on trade on Sundays and holidays has been in operation for years. The most limited trade in Germany and Austria. In these countries there is the so-called Sonntagsruhe, or Sunday silence. This means that all shops are closed on Sundays and holidays. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Given that there is a high social demand for reducing trade on Sundays, as well as the fact that we respect good, pro-social civil projects, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, I would like to assure you that we will be working in the Sejm on an initiative to reduce trade on Sundays. At this point, it should be stressed that applicants have taken up a difficult challenge by reconciling the interests of traders, consumers and trade and services workers. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I request that the citizens' bill on the restriction of trade be referred to on Sundays, print No 870, for further work in committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u278	Thank you. Maria Małgorzata Janyska, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u279	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I will try to avoid emotion and approach the subject calmly and honestly, because this is a very important subject and this is the way to approach it, not to be guided by emotions, because if I were guided by emotions, I would basically ask the applicant's representative what law you are presenting here today, what project. 'Cause I'm actually thinking about how I look at 870, that this isn't this project, this isn't about reducing trade on Sundays. You were talking about something else. You spoke about the sanctity of Sunday for all: for all citizens, for all Poles and for all Poles, so changes should be made in the area of labour law and not in the area of one segment addressed to one social group. Ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo, this chaos, which here was the result of these translations, is unfortunately also in this project. This project, if it were to be analysed in such a way, will have its own negative effects. Ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of the bill is unclear, as I have already mentioned, and it is also not based on anything. You were talking about consulting, you were talking about research, but you didn't present it, and there's no evidence in the Seym printing either. There's no analysis. There's only information. In fact, I would describe it as wishful thinking that no turnover would fall, no job losses, no less revenue to the budget. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a law that introduces restrictions, but at the same time there is a gateway to access of certain segments, certain types of trade, which will be possible without this prohibition. Ladies and gentlemen, some of them are about securing the necessary needs of life, daily, water supply, energy, fuel, etc., while a large part unfortunately are not those segments of goods that are essential for life. 'Cause I don't know, ladies and gentlemen, if you're supposed to buy a devout on Sunday, the more we're talking about the sanctity of Sunday. And the devotion where are they sold? [[What is it that bothers you?]] Where, where? In places of religious worship. [[Applause]] So if the episcopate supports this project, then the episcopate should think about it, that it should ask itself that as few people as possible be involved in this area on Sundays, because, as the applicant state itself, the representative of the governing party, you say, Sunday is Christmas and it is for everyone. [[Free, not saintly, free.]] There were no analyses and no tests. You've only spoken here about a group of thousands of people who've studied preferences. A thousand people, and then you talked about a few hundred thousand people working in commerce. Nor did you, sir, address the consumers... [[You weren't listening.]] ...because if it weren't for consumers, this trade wouldn't exist on Sundays at all. Who walks around these stores on Sundays? Who needs shopping? Are they Poles or are they foreigners, ladies and gentlemen who come to us? [[Applause]] And they buy out... [[Exactly.]] ...our goods? You haven't told me yet about another very important professional group that could unfortunately lose her job. You did not say Polish - Polish - producers, you did not say Polish suppliers. Because all these, as it is called in the Act, traders are to be closed on Sundays from hours. 6 a.m. by Monday at 6 p.m. 6:00 a.m. [[Until 3 p.m. 5 a.m.]] Dear consumers, on Monday you can expect not to buy fresh goods, those you need, those you are used to, or maybe even on Tuesday. [[We're gonna lose some weight.]] Because logistics in this connection will be able to start from Monday at noon. 6 a.m. and it's not about ready-made, loaded cars, it's just preparation and packaging in storage centers, etc. Maybe they won't be here till Tuesday. Ladies and gentlemen, the work area on Sundays should require justification, an analysis of the facts, because this is too important a subject, too important also for the countries that are sitting there. It's too important to be based only on a story that you're sure you're gonna make sure nothing happens. I'll give you an example of Hungary because you talked about it. You're laughing. Perhaps next year, if you introduce this bill, you will do the same thing as the Hungarian Government. This law has been in force for just over a year. Why? Because the government got scared of the social protest. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And he pulled out of it. Ladies and gentlemen, your rights here today guaranteed by the rulers next year may be completely reversed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[We can do this.]] [[Since when are Hungary an example?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u280	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Porwich, Kukiz,15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u281	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear guests! I'm tempted to comment on my predecessor's words, but I'll hold back. On behalf of the Kukiz Poselski Club15, I have the honour to present my position on the citizens' draft law on the restriction of trade on Sundays, print No. 870. First of all, it must be said that the solutions contained in this bill have a broad social aspect, affecting the model of consumerism and pathology in the labour market, but also the traditional and traditional functioning of the Polish family. A separate aspect, although very important, is also the aspect of economic patriotism. But I will start by saying that it is undoubtedly important that 0.5 million Poles signed under the project, and the initiative was taken by many communities and organizations, including NSZZ.Solidarity. The important thing is that solutions for reducing trade on Sundays exist in most countries of the European Union. It is important that, as other countries' experience shows, concerns about the overall decline in trade are not confirmed. It is also important that there is no reason for these statutory solutions to threaten us with an increase in unemployment. However, it must be recognised and taken into account that some citizens are approaching the bill on reducing trade on Sundays with a certain degree of scepticism or are simply against it. This is a natural opposition to limiting anything, but mainly the fear of changing the many-year habit of spending time in large-area shops and the lack of an idea to use alternative solutions. It must be made clear that the reduction of trade on Sundays has a positive social aspect. [[Applause]] It will bring about a return to valuable, but in many environments forgotten ways of spending free time. By force, it will benefit, among other things. tourism, recreation, culture, sport and economic sectors related to these areas. However, there are also flaws in the project, starting with its dry title, which in general does not reflect the idea of introducing a law, through its individual provisions, which require refinement. The issues that we should address at a later stage of legislative work are certainly what sanctions should be imposed on those who violate the law, whether there should be several working Sundays, as in the project, or maybe a dozen, whether the catalogue of derogations from the established trade bans on Sundays is not too broad or narrow, and whether there are some reductions in employment on Sundays, for example. students. There are at least a dozen questions we need to answer. Foreign corporations are a subject that needs to be addressed on this occasion. Some insist that the bill will have an impact on the functioning of foreign commercial corporations. I'll remind you, from the moment I was called. They were treated extremely lightly, which was done with harm for Polish producers and Polish trade. Now, on the other hand, which is the secret of the millennia, they avoid paying billions of taxes and overuse workers. So today we must, as far as possible, change this state of affairs - gradually, but gradually and effectively. Today's bill is a small step in this direction. Sunday without corporation, Sunday with family or Sunday free are the slogans that should be accompanied by this law, a law that will benefit, among others. Polish small trade, Polish entrepreneurs and family businesses. Ultimately, the newly created circumstances will affect the development of small Polish producers and increase their turnover, the development of local companies that pay taxes - a completely different issue that is too big. It is also very important that the proposal introduces an element of the legal protection of private life of many Polish families. Today, many Polish workers do not know what Sunday is, because the Labour Code prohibits work in commercial establishments only on holidays. There are those who work every Sunday because Polish law allows it, because we have the right which in many places has made a slave worker. [[Applause]] [[Exactly.]] The law, which is worth emphasising, guarantees the recovery of free Sundays by many workers employed in large-scale shops, will give them stability, and will make it possible for them to spend time with their loved ones in one day a week. Because the issue concerns all citizens, not only workers, but also customers, it seems that the most appropriate form of consent of Poles to a possible restriction of trade on Sundays would be a national referendum. It is up to all citizens to be able to comment on these and other issues, [[♪ The bell ♪]] preferably after a prior reduction of the attendance threshold required for the mandatory results of the referendum. I hope that we will see the time when, in matters of importance and common interest, we will use the institutions of the referendum. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm almost done. Traditionally, there is no discipline in the Kukiz Club15, but I warmly ask my friends and representatives of other clubs to direct the project to further legislative work out of respect for the citizens submitting the request, out of respect for the institutions of the family and in the interest of Polish entrepreneurs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo, bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u282	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Stasiński, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u283	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! Five minutes for a club speech is not enough to discuss all demagogic statements, half-truths, silences and inaccuracies that we could hear in the statements of your representative of the applicants. We must not forget one basic thing. The basis of Polish economic success, ladies and gentlemen, is economic freedom... [[Employee exploitation.]] ...economic freedom, which has not been developed since 1989... [[Stealing from people.]] On the contrary, it's limited. With each year, Polish entrepreneurs, Polish companies, small, large, medium Polish business, are burdened not only with regulations, but also with increasing taxes. These very adverse changes are affected not only by entrepreneurs, not only by employers, but above all by employees. So let us remember that the Polish economic success which started in trade on the folding beds on which the Poles traded everything they could in 1989 is the basis of our economic success, and the further restrictions that the applicant country wants to introduce are really the end of this economic success. [[They were self-employed, not businessmen for pennies.]] The situation in Europe that you have referred to, as well as the Member of the Kukiz Club, seems to have a slightly different mathematical concept of the majority, because, as far as I know, trade restrictions in the European Union concern only nine countries... [[Eight.]] ...and the European Union is made up of 28 countries. [[Touchdown, applause]] If eight is the majority, then we can't really get along with this kind of math. An example of Hungary. Again, you are only referring to those aspects that are of benefit to you. There is nothing better than an identical law introduced in another country and its effects. I'm surprised you're moving on so quickly to what the Hungarians have been through. So let's look at what really happened in Hungary. [[And the Germans?]] [[Bożen Borys-Raccoon: What about Germany? And in Austria?]] [[And in Denmark, sir?]] In Hungary, the effects were such that several thousand jobs were lost, but also a very large part of the turnover which led to the dismissal of workers was lost. We cannot support a law that guarantees the dismissal of workers, i.e. the loss of jobs. For too long Polish entrepreneurs and Polish companies worked to make unemployment so low. And this bill is 100% , and the state itself indirectly admits it, will result in job losses. [[Bożen Boris-Raccoon: Nonsense.]] [[That is not true, sir.]] The creation of new jobs is very hypothetical and says this think tank, which is very close to Law and Justice, namely the Jagiellonian Club, which predicts that the loss of jobs will affect 100,000. employees. Polish Trade and Distribution Organisation: 10% employed in commerce. We certainly cannot agree to this, nor will we vote absolutely in favour. [[We will survive this, sir.]] I am also very surprised that a trade union representative, speaking of work, uses terms such as exploitation, coercion and evil. [[Because it's on the Polish market...]] I understand that it's better to think of a trade union as just being unemployed. [[Applause]] The ethos of work and work are the foundations of wealth and individuals and society, and therefore the whole state, honourable Members, and not the limits and really unemployment. [[Freedom of exploitation.]] Another incredibly curious record, ladies and gentlemen, is the article. Six, that's penitentiary. We are so lucky for civic projects, whether it's about abortion, whether it's about trade now, that the applicant country is very happy to want all Poles who dare to violate this pseudo-legality, to put them in prison. In the impact assessments, I propose to increase spending on prison. [[Applause]] [[The Member has not read the bill.]] Another thing. A statement has been made by the applicant, which I have heard as a young man for many years. 500 m from here is the building of the Central Committee of the Polish United Workers' Party. Very often, for 44 years, gentlemen and ladies sat there debating how to meet needs, it was, I quote: meeting the needs of the population. They tried to define, define, implement these needs. They haven't worked in 44 years. [[What does a gingerbread have to do with a windmill? Okay, here's the thing.]] I am not deluded that this project will allow these needs to be realized. Unfortunately, as Mr Piotr Duda here has said, it is not a law for people, it is not a law for employees, it is not a law for entrepreneurs, [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is a bill, and I quote: for God and family. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u284	Mr Krystian Jarubas, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u285	Of course, Mr. Marshal, we will file a motion for rejection at first reading.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u286	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Minister! Dear Applicants! Dear guests gathered at the gallery! [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, quiet.]] On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I am pleased to present my position on the citizens' draft act on the restriction of trade on Sundays, print no. 870. Ladies and gentlemen! The subject of our work is a project that bans trade on Sundays. It should be stressed that this is a citizens' project and changes in the rules governing this subject are expected. The Polish People's Party will not underestimate this project. However, changes should be made evolutionaryly rather than revolutionaryly. Let's reduce trade on Sundays, but until then. 12. About an hour ago. 12, I'm sorry. This is our proposal, which is a compromise. On the one hand, it will allow employees of large commercial networks to spend more time with their families, and on the other hand it will protect them from losing their jobs. This is a rational solution that will protect jobs and can be introduced overnight. In our view, the introduction of an hourly restriction should also be accompanied by the strengthening of direct sales from agricultural producers and the sale of traditional products. We do not hide the fact that our doubts are raised by the provision of a law that would result in a sentence of imprisonment of up to 2 years for breach of the ban. This record is too far gone. In our view, severe financial penalties for breaking this ban will be much more effective. At the same time, we are pleased that the applicants have benefited from our proposal and propose to limit trade on the Great Saturday and Christmas Eve. I would like to remind you that the project of reducing work on these days Polish People's Party submitted already at the beginning of this year. [[Voice from the room: 8 years.]] Unfortunately, to our surprise, he did not find the support of the PiS. All the more interesting we'll be watching you from the PiS... [[Law and Justice.]] ...you'll behave in this civic project. The Polish People's Party Club will be making amendments... [[Voice from the hall: The law is long gone.]] [[PSL.]] ...to limit trade on Sundays from hours. 12. We ask that this project be referred to the committee for further work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u287	Thank you. Mr Stanisław Huskowski, European Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u288	Mr. Marshal! Dear Members, I am pleased to speak briefly on behalf of the European Democrats' Circle. We have looked at this project and, to tell you the truth, as we all know, at least as senior Members know, this is not the first attempt to deal with this subject. These previous trials had a basis, I would say, ideological, strong ideological basis, that the point is that Sunday, which is a holy day for people who believe in the Christian faith, should be a holy day and for this reason it should be forbidden to work, and in particular to trade, on those days. We're far from ideology, and we'd like to move this whole thing away. However, we find the project interesting, because since the previous discussions in the Sejm, in Parliament on this subject and we have read a lot, and we have met people many times and we know that a large number of employees, and even some entrepreneurs, agree with the assumptions of this project, agree to reduce the work in trade on Sundays. However, the project contains a number of different inaccuracies. Some Members, my previous speakers, have raised these issues, but I would also like to note them for the sake of order. Firstly, the title is misleading, in any case we see a contradiction between the title and the content, because the title refers to the fact that it is a restriction on trade, and the article. 1 in the first two paragraphs speaks of the prohibition, Article. 3 also says that trade in establishments on Sundays is prohibited. A ban, then, or a restriction? Yeah, so to speak, the semantic difference is obvious. The second thing is sanctions. We understand that it is not possible to create a law that cannot be enforced, so sanctions for violating the provisions of the law must be, but an article. 6 says that in addition to the fine, which is understandable, there will be a limitation of freedom or imprisonment for up to 2 years. This is completely unacceptable to us. [[Then read the Labour Code, sir.]] It's also in the article. 3 (1) (a) 8 It is mentioned that the law also applies to mobile and mobile traders. It seems too far-fetched, too. Today very often at various types of events, festivals, sports events, etc., which are held on Sundays, are called. Food trucks, food-selling cars. Whether at festivals or at other parties we will ban, I don't know, the sale of balloons or some small jewelry? It seems like it's going too far too far. We know that there are different solutions in many European countries, and the speakers have raised this, for example in Hungary, for example in Germany, Austria. We, as European Democrats, believe that it is worth to bend over to this problem and change some of the provisions in the course of the work, in the further part of the debate on this project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u289	Thank you. Małgorzata Zwierzan, Free and Solidarni have the floor. [[Come on, Gretel!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u290	Mr. Marshal! Minister! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Dear guests! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I will present my position on the citizens' proposal for a law on restriction of trade on Sundays. The basic objective of the Act is to establish rules on the prohibition of trade in commercial establishments and in traders on Sundays. The regulations contained in this proposal provide for a trade ban on Sundays, excluding specific Sundays and places where this will be allowed, e.g. fuel stations, pharmacies, florists, and categories of operators who will be able to trade on Sundays and holidays. The Act also aims to regulate working time on Christmas Eve and the Great Saturday. It is also important that the bill contains provisions that clearly define the employment of persons in the area of sales, among others. related to sorting or storage, and the operation of distribution, logistics or storage centres providing services for trade. The projectors considered that employment issues need to be regulated on Sundays by a separate law, since the provisions in the Labour Code alone do not provide adequate safeguards for workers working in trade. Currently, in Poland there are rules that trade on Sundays, with the exception of Sundays on holidays, is legally acceptable and generally universal. The rules proposed by the applicants also tighten the sanctions for breaking the trade ban, which so far covered only the prohibition on hiring workers on holidays in accordance with the provisions of the Labour Code. In the proposed form of the law, the violation of the trade ban on Sundays will be governed by criminal law. This means more effective respect for the law and more measurable penalties for those who break the ban. When considering the relevance of this law, we need to consider two aspects: social and economic. According to the data presented by the designers and daily observation, the majority of employees in the trade are women. They, having very little time for the family a week, cannot pay any attention also on Sundays, because then they work. [[Applause]] The projectors argue that the vast majority of the respondents indicate the need for a free Sunday and do not consider it sufficient to compensate for the day's work or the additional salary for it or any other week's work schedule. I agree with the opinion that the introduction of this law, i.e. the return to the long abandoned tradition of Sunday as a day spent among the closest ones, will lead to the building of relations and strengthening the bond between members of Polish families. As the legislators point out, as a result of the bans in question, the increase in turnover in large-scale stores is projected on the days preceding Sunday, i.e. Friday and Saturday, when consumers will make purchases by promotion. We have such experiences from the days before Christmas, when Poles go to shops massly. It should be stressed that solutions restricting trade on Sundays operate in many European countries: Austria, Germany, Norway, Switzerland, France, Great Britain, Greece, Belgium and Denmark. The draft law was subject to extensive public consultation with employers' organisations and associations. Numerous studies have also been carried out and many conferences have been organised on the subject of the proposed law. The data collected indicate that bringing to the constitutional record the Sunday as a day off from work and promoting the real value of Sunday is one of social expectations. [[Applause]] The economic impact studies also show that the Act will not contribute to the reduction of revenue to the state budget. In view of the above, the Free and Solidarni Circle requests that the citizens' bill be sent to work in committee. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u291	Thank you. Mr Janusz Sanocki, not associated, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u292	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! A fellow Member of the Modern House convinces us that economic success comes from the fact that people have been chased to work on Sundays. I would like to remind you that there was already such a leader a great and outstanding host who, instead of a seven-day week, with one day, introduced a decade-old system. His name was Joseph Wissarionovich Stalin. [[Applause]] This system was long in force in Russia and rather did not bring economic success. Ladies and gentlemen, these economic aspects clearly speak for the benefit of, or at least prevent criticism, because it is hard to believe that this mass of goods and customers will not be able to recover in 6 days of the week, that this one day of the week must be traded to sell what needs to be sold there. I, on the other hand, would like to draw attention to the fact that it is omitted, perhaps not so much overlooked, but a little accented, religious aspect. There's a provision in the Constitution, Art. 53 talks about freedom of religion. We are a Christian country, and we are also a nation of the book. Someone in Israel get people to work on Saturday so someone can try to do it. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Oh, interesting.]] Isn't that right, sir? So let's draw from good patterns. And I wanted to thank the initiators. I believe that this one day is absolutely necessary for many reasons. Not without reason did he find himself in our tradition, culture, religion. That's a good thing. It's a good bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u293	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. If any of your fellow Members would like to speak again, I would like to invite you. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - 1 minute. You have the voice of Catherine Osos, the Civic Platform. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] You don't have an MP, do you? This is Mrs Joanna Frydrych, the Civic Platform. [[Joanna.]] Joanna.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u294	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Applicants! Please answer the question: What is the real purpose of the law on reducing trade on Sundays? I am asking this question because I did not see the advantage of the positive effects of this law. I see mostly negative aspects. And so, first of all, if the equipment store costs some amount in zlotys, the owner pays the rent at a fixed level, then a reduction in the number of days of trade by 40 days a year will result in a reduction in profit, which will translate into the price of the goods. Who's gonna lose on this? Consumers. Secondly, they will lose not only shops but also the services sector. A lot of people spend most of the day in shopping malls, shopping, going to movies or restaurants. Even tens of thousands of people on a national scale may lose their jobs. It's not just about trade, it's about dealing, it's about people cleaning galleries, it's about protecting them. [[♪ The bell ♪]] They sell services there. It should also be taken into account that the law will hit young people. Many students are making money on Sundays, whether in trade or in the trade-related sector.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u295	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u296	I would like to remind you that during the term of the Sejm 2005-2007 has withdrawn... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...because that's what...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u297	Mr Marek Rząsa, Civic Platform. Member, please leave the stand.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u298	I would add that even then this argument was taken into account. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u299	May I? Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the debate, the Polish society is almost equally divided, so whatever resolution we make here, there will be dissatisfied people. I personally do not shop on Sundays, and galleries do a wide arc, but in this dispute I stand on the side of the opponents of the ban, because trade and services workers are not the only professional group that works on Sundays. I do not like leaving exceptions, because it contradicts the principle of competitiveness. Gas stations have long been mini-shops, mini-bars. Now they're doing the same thing in florists, which, using a ban or exclusion from the ban, will expand their product range by means of first-needs measures. Western online shops will also benefit from the ban. I don't like imposing on citizens what to do and what not to do. Sunday is for God and family," says Mr Duda. Well, I don't share that opinion in the context of this case, nor do I share the view that galleries are full only because the galleries are guilty that... [[Then go to the gallery yourself.]] ...the faithful don't go to church. Poles don't have ducks and have their brains. If you want to change the conscious choices of Poles, at least do not do so through bans and prison sentences. [[Applause]] [[What a style.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u300	Thank you. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform, has the floor. There is no Member. Mr Mieczysław Miazga, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u301	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is very good that the citizens' bill on restricting trade on Sunday is being processed. This bill meets the expectations of most citizens and fits into a practice that has already become the norm in many countries. I find it difficult to share the arguments put forward by the opponents of the contested law, and the ban should cover all entities and should not be favoured by the various forms of activity. It is important that petrol stations trade in high-interest alcohol for 7 days a week for 24 hours. daily. Question: "Wouldn't it be appropriate to exclude these products from trade on Sundays, which would undoubtedly reduce negative social phenomena in this respect - through easy availability for example?" Question two. Wouldn't it be fair to limit sales to hours on Sundays? 17 neighborhood shops whose work leads to a disturbance of peace, in short, to those where the owner sells? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u302	You have the voice of Bożena Kaminska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u303	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! High Izbo! I have economic questions for the applicants. Can we afford 85 grand? People lost their jobs, ladies and gentlemen? [[And how do you know he's gonna lose it?]] Can we afford to lose billions of dollars in Poland's economy? Can we afford this... [[Joy in the Chamber]] You're laughing because it's funny to you. Can we afford to take out 65 grand? employment, including not being able to make money from students who often earn money for their studies, as well as for their apartments during their studies. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh!]] And retirees, and pensioners also make up for their low pensions and pensions. Why do the applicant state want to punish Poles for trading on Sundays with punishment for up to two years imprisonment? Why doesn't the fine satisfy you? Why do all the projects that we are conducting here predict that Poles will be imprisoned? Thank you very much. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u304	Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, Law and Justice have the floor. [[Witness.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u305	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask, is it true that, for almost the entire 20th century in Poland, there has been no work in trade outside on-call facilities? Is it true that in Germany, France and other major countries of the European Union, although large-scale shops are closed on Sunday, trade somehow did not fall? [[Not everywhere.]] Is it true that the Gdansk agreements included the introduction, apart from Sundays, of free Saturdays? [[Applause]] Isn't it the laughter of history that profit... [[Bravo.]] ...on the people who then fought the system changes, today the resources of Western companies are being built up, which our country's taxes are pumping out. [[♪ The bell ♪]] abroad? [[Applause]] Is it true that large-scale, industrial shops organize work so that, with low service and low quality of this service, they can direct buyers just on Saturdays and Sundays, so that the main sales will take place during these days? I mean, at this time... [[Mr. Marshal, time is running out.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u306	Finish it, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u307	...there are high general costs through these extra days... [[Voice from the room: Time.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u308	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u309	And the jaws and beds and pavilions in Warsaw destroyed representatives of the Civic Platform. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u310	Mr Tomasz Szymański, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u311	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The envisaged bill actually goes against thousands of people working in the wider trade, but at the same time millions of Poles will not be able to shop freely on a day that may be the only one because of their various responsibilities. This project, honourable applicants, you cut out 40 days of work in a country that is still on track. The basic question is, can we afford to cut it like this? But I have specific questions for applicants: Where my wife will be able to buy fresh buns and cheese for children to school on Monday morning, since you are proposing a break in deliveries from Sunday hours. 6 a.m. to Monday 6. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[And you're not going to bother yourself?]] Let me finish my question. Of course, we should also ask ourselves whether the shoes we order will arrive on Monday on time because the couriers will not work either. [[Monday at the time. 6:00 a.m.]] Answer me, do you think that the penalty for trading on Sundays in the form of two years in prison - equal to inducing children to pornography, beating up or cruel killing animals - is adequate? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And one last question. You said that the bill was the result of extensive consultation with many environments and that demagogy was a statement that there would be exemptions. I have a specific question. How many consultations were there and what stakeholders were consulted about this project? And, Mr Duda, why didn't this project become... [[Half a million consumers.]] ...in the Social Dialogue Council? Thank you very much. [[Please read the bill, don't send your wife to pick up the buns.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u312	Thank you, sir, that's enough. Mr Adam Abramowicz, the Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u313	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Nine years ago, the Sejm discussed restricting trade at Christmas. It was 2007, rule of Law and Justice. Observing today's discussion, I feel that I am participating in that discussion before introducing this restriction. Well, then, ladies and gentlemen of the Civic Platform announced a disaster, they announced mass layoffs. There was supposed to be an economic disaster, a fall in turnover, and the economy was about to collapse. Well, ladies and gentlemen, we introduced this ban, this limitation, and what did it turn out to be? There has been an increase in employment by 7%, and no harm has been done to large-scale trading facilities. Today you say that Poles do not want a restriction. Just after that experience, when we found out you could shop on other days, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that you can change your shopping schedule and nothing bad happens, Poles want restrictions, the vast majority of Poles want restrictions on work on Sundays and holidays. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Well done, very well done.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u314	Mr Krzysztof Truskolasna, Moderna, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u315	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A lot of people can only shop on Sundays because they work for the rest of the days and it's the only time for them to shop. They won't be able to do that now. It's a civic project, but I think the ruling party is the initiator of it. [[Game in the O.R.]] PiS wants to control every aspect of our lives. Now it's time to appoint citizens when they have... [[This is a citizens' project, sir, not a PiS.]] ...shopping, and when you don't. Mr. Marshal, would you please...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u316	Yes. Are the members of the Kukiz Club... [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] No, Kukiz is fine. Could the members of the Law and Justice Club not interfere with their speeches? I'd really appreciate it. [[But the speaker is provoking us.]] [[But that's a funny subject.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u317	Experts agree that after introducing these regulations, jobs will lose tens of thousands of people, and the turnover of shops will also fall, because as merchants alarm, many shops just on Sundays generate more than 20% profit. There's another aspect. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The shopping galleries you want to close will not reduce rent to tenants, one day the shops will have to be closed, so as a result many of the tenants will have to close their companies. Most of the trade in Bialystok, in the city where I live, is based on customers from Belarus who leave millions in our Polish shops every weekend. When we stop the trade, they won't come because it won't be worth taking a vacation, and the stores will fall. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u318	Thank you. Mr Zbigniew Chmielowiec, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u319	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! More than 0.5 million Poles signed up to a citizens' bill on reducing trade on Sundays. The project initiated by the National Secretariat of Banks, Trade and Insurance of the NSZZ (Solidarity) assumes a ban on trade on Sundays, excluding several Sundays a year. According to his records, shops could be opened in which the owner sells himself. The exception should be among others. gas stations, bakeries, pharmacies, kiosks, florists, so that these buns can be bought calmly. [[Applause]] The project bans trade on Sundays. [[Read the bill.]] According to recent surveys, 61% support it. Poles, against 32%. Therefore, I have questions. What is the issue of the Sunday ban on trade in European Union countries? Will the introduction of this law result in job losses? Will this act not have adverse economic effects? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u320	Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u321	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There are serious concerns that the ban on trade on Sundays may harm small shops and will result in the turnover of fuel stations. In the draft law we have no analyses of the social and economic consequences, both for the state budget and for the entities concerned. The ban on trade on Sundays is likely to result in dismissals. Today, jobs in trade are extremely important in the labour market, especially in small towns. It was found that the trade workers were working over-normatively, but we do not have any data, no calculations or any analyses. What do the Poles think? The polls, and it depends on who the tests are for, are extremely divergent. The worst is when you make everyone happy by force. Maybe it's better to leave a choice. I wanted to ask you: How many people will lose their jobs as a result [[♪ The bell ♪]] the introduction of regulation in the current form? I'm asking for a written reply, because it's not what the applicants are saying. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u322	Thank you. You have the floor of Mr Jan Warrzecha, the Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u323	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! As we know, the main objective of this project is to ensure that workers in most commercial establishments are not forced to work on Sundays. This noble postulate has great social support, as evidenced by more than 500,000. signatures submitted under the law. As we have just heard, there are also opponents of the trade ban on Sundays. However, we should appreciate the involvement of the coordinators of this initiative, i.e. The signatories of the Covenant for the Free Sunday, who have put a lot of effort and work into ordering this project to be held by the Sejm. I am aware that we will continue to work on the details of the project in Parliament's committees, but I wanted to clarify whether to hear the answer to the question: Will this project also include the ban on online shops and online sales, the acceptance of orders and their initial implementation? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u324	Thank you. Mrs Ewa Kozanecka, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u325	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! Minister! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Dear guests! High Izbo! It should be assessed that the draft law on trade reduction on Sundays is fully positive and legitimate. I am convinced that action in this direction is necessary because the labour market in Poland needs to be improved. If we consider trade, especially in large-scale shops, it turns out that we have an inefficient and harmful organisational, corporate, working culture in many respects. The reduction of trade on Sundays is a small step towards civilising the labour market in this area, but every step towards normality that we know from Western Europe - on Sundays in most Western countries is not working at all or only to a limited extent - can bring us closer to normalcy in the labour market. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I have a question for applicants: Will the actual reduction of trade on Sundays have a positive impact on the physical, mental and social health of workers, their efficiency at work, their family life? What are social expectations or Sundays free, or embarrassingly low allowances and salaries? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u326	Thank you very much. The question is now asked by Mr Witold Zembaczyński, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u327	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Applicant State! Can you tell Polish consumers directly that the introduction of a trade ban on Sunday will increase prices and affect their wallet? Can you tell Polish workers directly that thousands of them will lose their jobs as a result of a trade ban on Sunday? What can you tell the students who want to get a job this weekend? That they can't do it? And why do you ignore the opinion of all those employees who get paid off on Sundays? I worked on Sundays for a number of years. That's why I did it because it ended with a particular income and profit for me. Therefore, I have a very simple solution for the High House: let them vote for the ban on trade on Sunday, but with their hands on their hearts, only those Members who never shop on Sundays. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u328	Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u329	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Applicants! First of all, I have a question for Members, colleagues who are so sorry that the free economy in Poland will end. Ladies and gentlemen, do you really believe that, as a result of the restriction of trade on Sundays, consumer demand will decrease? This demand will not decrease. If the consumer has a need to buy a bike, he will buy the bike. [[Applause]] [[It's like the construction of a pussy.]] If he has to buy pen ink, he'll buy it on Saturday or another day. He'll know he can't buy such ink on Sunday. [[So are the souvenirs.]] So are the souvenirs. [[Yeah, it's better to make time.]] Anyway, I still have a question for the applicants. You write about it, you say it's a restriction on trade on Sundays, you indicate there's a ban on trade. I ask you to clarify clearly whether this law is to actually prohibit trade on Sundays or simply restrict it. That's one thing. Secondly, whether you are able to waive the provisions on criminal sanctions in the form of a restriction or imprisonment, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because it might seem that...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u330	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u331	One more thing, Mr. Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u332	Mr Paweł, I am sorry, Mieczysław Kazimierz Baszko, club PSL.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u333	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! By introducing trade restrictions on Sundays, designers were mainly driven by the well-being of employees of commercial establishments who cannot benefit from a number of cultural and social events that people in the basic working time system benefit from on Sundays. Undoubtedly an important reason is that in Polish tradition Sunday is a holy day, a family day. It was good that the proposals of the Polish People's Party were included in the civic project, that trade in commercial facilities on Christmas Eve, on the Great Saturday will be conducted until hours. 14. I propose a compromise for the designers. Don't designers take into account such a compromise in further work on the Trade Reduction Act on Sundays to introduce this gradually? Trade until 3 p.m. 12, after this hour - no trade. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u334	Thank you. Mrs Joanna Borowiak, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u335	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Let me quote a quote: What is Sunday free for me? There's no way to describe it. It's the most important day of the week, and basically the only day we can be together. There's nothing more important to me. than being with my family at last. [[Applause]] It's a little bit like getting my freedom back because I feel like a slave forced to work. These are the words of a young woman who works in a shop, so-called. The network. She's the wife and mother of a little boy, and she spends Sundays at work. How important this project is and how socially expected, there is no need to explain in particular. It is enough that more than 0.5 million Poles supported the citizens' trade reduction project on Sundays. The opposition threatens with disaster. Therefore, I have a question for the representatives of the applicants: Is it true that reducing Sunday trade is not a disaster, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Contrary to what the opponents of the project say, the sale will not stop, but will only move? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u336	Thank you, Member. She asks Mrs Lidia Burzyńska, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u337	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Dear Invited Guests! The adversaries of trade restrictions on Sundays say that at the time of the restriction, because we cannot talk about the total ban on trade on Sundays, the turnover in shops will decrease. [[Why can't we?]] We would like to say that after introducing restrictions on trade on Sundays Poles will not really stop eating, ladies and gentlemen. Poles will buy what they have so far bought on Sundays on Saturdays Or Friday. It's just a matter of organization. So my question to the applicants is: Have the applicants carried out research and thus have, statistics, courts concerning the impact of the law on the turnover of shops? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Exactly.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u338	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mrs Halina Szydleko, club Law and Justice. [[Little Minister.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u339	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Is it true that those employed in trade, and this is more than 0.5 million of our citizens, mostly women, are one of the most discriminated labour groups that are forced to work on Sundays? We know that there are competitions that require me to work on Sundays, that I will even name medical services, police, fire department. But what mission does trade have to carry out to compare it with such services? Is it true that Western European countries with leading economies, where trade is banned or reduced on Sundays, view this as a great civilization achievement, which allows their workers to rest on that day, to devote this time to their family? Is the truth... [[The bell, the applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u340	Thank you, Member. The question is asked by Mr Piotr Uściński, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u341	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Dear Applicants! High Izbo! The platform and the Modern, opposing the ban on trade on Sundays, actually act in the interest of large commercial networks, often German. [[Bullshit.]] However, in Germany, as we know, trade is generally prohibited on Sundays, although this competence is passed on to the Lands. Take Berlin as an example. The Berlin Parliament introduced a law a few years ago that allowed trade on ten Sundays a year. This right to a constitutional tribunal in Karlsruhe was challenged by the Catholic Church and the Lutheran community. What did the tribunal say? He admitted it to them. [[Applause]] [[That's a good one.]] The Constitutional Tribunal in Karlsruhe, the German Constitutional Court, acknowledged that a weekly life cycle with a common free Sunday was essential for the development of healthy family and social relations. He admitted that the possibility of sharing [[♪ The bell ♪]] experience a day of rest is also necessary for the realization of...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u342	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u343	...all citizens' social and political freedoms. Sunday is needed to build civil society. [[Applause]] [[Bravo tribunal in Karlsruhe!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u344	The question is asked by Marek Matuszewski, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u345	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I look at the Members and Members of the Civic Platform and I look at this crying, lamentation, because I see that you regret this leisure time, Mr... [[Are yours open or not? Do you open on Sundays?]] ...working supermarket workers. [[And this hypocrite is.]] I will say this, this day is due as it is in the European Union. In other cases, you say to follow the example of the European Union, and when it comes to Sundays free, you no longer want to follow the example. It's very, very strange. I'm getting better in our country because we remember the Three Kings. There was resistance, but it's finally a day off. [[Would you like to expand the range of sales, please?]] There was resistance for many terms when it came to Sundays free. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I think it's gonna be a free Sunday for the employees soon. Happy birthday. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u346	Thank you very much, sir. [[Answer the question if your stations are open. Can girls work on your stations?]] [[He's a salesman.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please do not interfere with the proceedings. The question is asked by Mrs Józef Rzczurek-Żelazko, club Law and Justice. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u347	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much to the applicants for presenting this bill. This is a project very much awaited by our society, not just trade workers. To be honest, I was very embarrassed to hear some of the speakers from the Modern and Civil Platform who were so disdainful about trade workers. [[Lie to the ethics committee.]] That's what only people who never worked at night can say. They can allow themselves to be generalized. I would also like to say that the hypocrisy you are showing here is remarkable. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u348	The Member systematically interferes with the conduct of the deliberations.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u349	Ladies and gentlemen, in 2013 a parliamentary draft law on the amendment of the Labour Code was presented. Members of the Civic Platform supported this project. Mrs Navel, who just spoke here, signed that Sundays should be free. So, ladies and gentlemen, depending on where you're sitting, [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's the position you're presenting.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u350	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u351	I have a question as to whether the project will actually increase unemployment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u352	The question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u353	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we are debating a civil project, a project that has been expected for a long time. I also say this in the name of the people of the Solidarity that I belong to. Today there are virtually no statutory safeguards against working in commercial entities on Sundays. This problem concerns women in particular, and I think that each of us Members, at least men, should ask himself whether he would like his wife, daughter or mother to be away on this special day, working hard at the store. The answer of those employed is clear: they would like Sunday to be a day off from work for them. Unfortunately, it is also impossible to rely on the protection of workers from European Union legislation. The positive social consequences of the bill are obvious to me. Since this is a civic project, I have a question for the government whether it sees any danger of loss for the state budget, or whether it is simply a myth spread by opponents of such solutions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u354	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Piotr Uruski, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u355	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! According to the results of the study, work on Sundays is treated as a health risk factor due to the fact that it is part of a working schedule that is incompatible with social rhythms and causes conflict of work - home. So I have a question for you. Did the work on the Law also take into account the results of studies on the consequences of working on Sundays, such as mental tension, anxiety, depression, emotional exhaustion and accelerated burnout? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u356	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mrs Bożena Borys-Raccoon, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u357	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the conclusions of the opinion, the Sejm Analysis Office states that the citizens' bill on the restriction of trade on Sundays is not contrary to European Union law. We can breathe with relief, because it is very likely that the European Parliament will not take a debate on restricting further freedoms in Poland. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[There's no telling how Tusk is.]] To understand the meaning of the proposals of the Legislative Initiative Committee, we need to listen to those who are deprived of the opportunity to spend this day with their family, with their children, with their loved ones on almost all Sundays of the year. No other day off a week is gonna make it up to them. Why? The adult part of the family is at work, children - in school or in kindergarten. According to the survey, the great majority of Poles and Poles understand this very well. Question to be asked indefinitely: Is it true that sales revenue will fall due to the restrictions introduced [[♪ The bell ♪]] And unemployment will rise? And doesn't the law violate the constitutional right of economic freedom? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u358	Thank you very much, Member. The question is asked by Mr Jan Mosiński, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u359	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm looking at the Modern and Civil Platform... [[And Matuszewski's mother.]] ...and I admire, in quotes, you, your profesional abilities. The leader of Petru said, "The feast of six kings - beware, as we introduce them, will be the end of the world." Platform leader Grzegorz Schetyn said that when the 500+ program comes in, the ground will be burned, the other Greece, mass protests, because we will turn public finances upside down. So you can see how you can predict the future. You throw numbers, you say your job loses 100,000. people that there will be debt when it comes to the state of public finances - this is also the case here. However, I have a question for applicants: Has the labour inspection stated in its repeated checks permanent violations of labour law, health and safety in terms of employees of these markets? [[The bell, the applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u360	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mrs Anita Czerwińska, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u361	Mr. Marshal! Minister! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. High Izbo! Dear guests, including Children! What are we supposed to tell the children of trade workers, the children who listen to our debate? That they won't spend Sunday with their mom, like their peers, and their parents' day off instead of Sunday will be Tuesday or Wednesday, which is when they're at school. Why? One reason is that Mr Szymanski's wife from the Civic Platform has to buy buns On Sunday night, [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] It's like she can't buy those buns on Monday morning. Then they're much fresher. I advise against buying buns in the evening at the hypermarket because after a few hours they are no longer suitable for use. [[And Mr Matuszewski's employees must work on Sundays.]] [[You're not gonna get your life set up.]] We could start with each other. Instead of after the session [[♪ The bell ♪]] Run for your bags and bags to spend, right, time with your kids... [[What about Mr Matuszewski's employees?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u362	Thank you very much, Member. The question is asked by Mirosław Nykiel, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u363	...let's set an example and work on Sundays, increase the efficiency of the Sejm. [[Applause]] My question is: Is the number of...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u364	Madame, you are using your time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u365	...children of trade workers without the possibility of spending Sunday... [[Hypocritical.]] [[Vice Marshal disables microphone, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u366	Thank you very much, Member. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u367	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the impression that the authors of the trade ban project on Sundays have based themselves on one aspect: the sanctity of Sundays. This could be agreed or not according to views, but not to present any reliable analyses and not to take any argument with available reliable analyses which show an impact on trade, is a mockery from the High House, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]] Why didn't you consider their impact on the labour market in the proposed changes? There are figures, already indicated here: from 35 thousand. up to 100,000, and not necessarily according to experts who favor the Civic Platform, but according to those connected to the PiS. Why didn't you show - or take polemics - the negative impact of the proposed changes on resorts or trade-related sectors? And finally, why are you still indifferent? [[♪ The bell ♪]] economy? Do you still not understand how much depends on her? [[Applause]] [[They don't know and they don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u368	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Wojciech Kossakowski, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u369	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Dear Applicants! I have a question. The bill is necessary, proper, correct, although I would like to ask what the applicants were guided by, allowing for sale at fuel stations with an area of up to 80 m3 for exposure. [[Time!]] What were you following? [[Time!]] Namely, we prohibit trade in shops, and we allow trade in gas stations. I think the law should be equal for everyone. [[Matuszewski's mother!]] We should ban it at the gas stations, too. [[Bravo.]] I would also like to draw attention at this point to whether applicants take into account that entrepreneurs can exploit the gap and increase the sales of gifts in their business, and thus increase their chance to... I think it needs to be worked out in the committees. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u370	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Jerzy Paul, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u371	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to say first of all that I am a strong supporter of the ban or restriction of trade on Sundays, for several reasons: religious, family or health, but here is the problem of the trade galleries. As we know, there are cinemas, restaurants or cafes in almost every one of them that have to work on Sundays. Unless I'm mistaken, every store owner in the shopping gallery, unfortunately, has a lease agreement that obliges him to open a stand, mandatory on every day of the week, which is also on Sunday. So the question is: How does the applicant propose to solve the problem of Sunday trade in shopping malls where retailers have to work 7 days a week? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u372	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Paweł Kobyliński, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u373	Mr. Marshal! Dear Applicants! Why are you so upset about this trade? [[Joy in the Chamber]] What about the cinema workers, the theaters? Wouldn't they want to spend that time with their family, go to church, take a walk with their children? There are waitresses, waiters, and they have families, too, right? [[Then put together a project like this.]] Why trade? What did he do to you? Does the applicant know of any economic law that confirms that the ban on operating increases or at least does not reduce revenue to the budget? One last question. Is it a coincidence that among those supporting this law is the Polish Chamber of Liquid Fuels, whose members will actually benefit from this law, and wasn't there any lobbying, forbidden lobbying? I'm asking for an explanation. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u374	Thank you. The question is asked by Jerzy Kozłowski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u375	Mr. Marshal! Dear Applicants! High Izbo! It's hard to walk indifferently and not lean on a project with over 500,000 signed. Poles. Personally, I have no doubt about voting in favour of this proposal for further work on the committee. However, I have a few doubts, and I want to focus on one problem. The problem concerns areas where Poles, let's call it, do weekend tourism and where they come not for a week's stay, but mainly for weekends. Is it possible, where trade generates for the region, for its inhabitants, the main profits, finding and concluding in the project such a solution which would take into account normal standards for the whole area of Poland, excluding tourist areas, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Where do tourists come strictly for the weekend? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u376	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Stefan Romecki, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u377	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Sellers! The explanatory memorandum to the bill contains information on legislative, legal and social aspects. Therefore, I have a question to which I did not find an answer: Has an analysis been carried out, how many Polish workers will be concerned with the implementation of this Act? Ladies and gentlemen, 25 years ago, Solidarity fought for free Saturdays, today Saturdays and Sundays were taken from salesmen. I'd add to my application on Saturdays. Make sure they have families on duty. [[Applause]] [[And Friday afternoon.]] My wife worked as a salesman. Now that I wanted to go to the mall, no, because that's where people work and let them have the day off. It's time to stop. And for this job today these employees have 25 years of the lowest national average and garbage contracts. [[That's the truth.]] There's a grocery store coming in. [[♪ The bell ♪]] GMOs, stuff like that...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u378	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u379	...so-called. The memlaki that gets wet and spits out because it doesn't work.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u380	Thank you, sir. The question is...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u381	Here we are still to fight for Polish healthy food. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u382	...Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u383	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The bill was presented to us here by the applicants. I'll be honest with you, I don't know if that's the justification for whether or not a law and justice card has been issued, and I'm already lost in all of this. I have a question: What will you tell tenants in shopping malls who have signed contracts for 5 years or 10 years with fixed rent depending not on the number of days of trade, but on the square meter? The commercial galleries will not go to lower the rent because they have loans under which all these liabilities are transferred in the form of assignment. There's no way. You can lead to a situation where these companies... And what you're saying is that the merchants were also the ones who wanted to ban trade on Sundays. It's completely illogical. The situation is that simply because of a 20% reduction in turnover, they will not be able to pay the rent. Mr. Marshal, since our motion to reject this at first reading is likely not to pass... [[You're right about that, sir.]] [[♪ The bell ♪]] ...I submit a request for this project to the Committee on Economics and Development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u384	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u385	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Dear Applicants! High Izbo! I'd like to ask you three questions. The first case concerns the definition contained in the draft for authorised online sales of goods which were not produced as a result of the production activity. What is this, what are those goods that were not produced as a result of production? There is no definition in the law, therefore it raises fundamental doubts about what is really going on. The second thing I'd like to ask you is trade in kiosks, but those that are one-storey and don't have a basement. What is the reason for this tightening, and what is the reason for this? And the third thing I'd like to ask you. Did you ask the employees for whom the only source of living is the shop at the mall, how they're going to react to this, [[♪ The bell ♪]] When their store closes...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u386	Thank you. The question is...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u387	...because the owner won't be able to keep it up and just fall? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u388	...Mrs. Monika Rosa, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u389	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. Complainer! High Izbo! Why just limit trade on Sundays? Why not ban it completely? Why not also prohibit the operation of cinemas, restaurants? I mean, they all work there. [[Applause]] Let's ban this whole thing. [[Then submit the draft, Madame Member.]] Everyone has the right to Sunday off. [[Gas stations.]] Gas stations, I'm sure. The applicant was talking about businessmen and he cared very much... [[You have to make a normal amendment.]] Mr. Marshal, may I have the room silenced? The applicant was talking about business rights. But isn't it better not to limit their ability to act, rather to make it easier for them, e.g. simplify the tax system, simplify regulation, make the law stable and not prohibit them from doing business on Sundays? The applicant was talking about women. But wouldn't it be better for women to be able to combine their work with their children's upbringing, make it easier for them to work on the labour market and not ban work on Sundays? And do you really, Mr. Applicant, want to punish entrepreneurs with two years of imprisonment? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u390	The question is asked by Mr Adam Szłapka, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u391	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Applicants! You are saying that employment will not decrease after this bill has been introduced. The question is what is this claim based on, because economists, e.g. from PwC, they claim that employment in trade will fall by up to 80,000. In the name of what do you want to deprive these people of their jobs? After listening to this debate today, the answer is simple. It's not about protecting your job, it's about working conditions, because you're gonna change the Labour Code. All you care about is building a ideological state. It's another bill like this. By banning trade, you want to introduce the right to celebrate Sunday, and in order to protect that law, you are imposing a penalty sentence of up to two years. It's as much as it is. For rape or child pornography. When will you introduce the obligation to celebrate Sunday? [[Applause]] Because that's what this is all about. [[He's in the Decalogue.]] In this bill, you hit... [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u392	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u393	...in students... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u394	The question is asked by Maria Małgorzata Janyska, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u395	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There's this euphoria all the time on the right side of the room, and Sunday's glorified... [['Cause there's almost no one from the P.O.]] ...but again for some. [[Don't be jealous of us, Member.]] The same way you're showing what some kids have, just like in the 500+ program, you've given money to some people. You've divided your children for worse and better... [[You should have given it to everyone. You were eight years old.]] And now it's the same... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr. Marshal, why don't you shut this room up? [[Member, this room, not this one. Let's respect the Polish language.]] I, Mr. Marshal, will allow you to extend this act of interference.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u396	No, I'm afraid that's not an option. [[Don't provoke me, Member.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u397	What do you mean it's not possible? Mr. Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u398	Proceed. You're interrupting your speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u399	And now, ladies and gentlemen, your children... I don't know if you're all employees, or if you're also owners of small retail facilities. If you're the owners, then your children aren't taken into account because the owners are allowed to work on Sundays... [[The owner can make a decision.]] ...so no one's gonna worry about these kids as much as any other kid. Ladies and gentlemen, I also have another question for the applicants: do you think that [[♪ The bell ♪]] Two weeks is enough to put this bill into effect if it passes in that shape?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u400	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u401	Have you considered the costs involved? [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Who's gonna cover it if there's compensation? [[You wasted your time.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u402	The question is asked by Mr Grzegorz Długi, the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome, sir. There's no envoy. The question is asked by Mr Bartłomiej Stawiarski, club Law and Justice. You're welcome. Please leave the speaker, Madame. You're welcome, sir. [[Voice from the Chamber: Do you have children, Member?]] [[Yes, I do, sir. And on Sunday, I was...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u403	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Undoubtedly, at the root of this discussion is the fundamental question about moral values and standards, which all who have spoken here before. [[Mr Matuszewski.]] Are economic conditions the most important thing in man's life? Undoubtedly, they're important. But what about the system of social values, what about the system of family values, what about moral standards, religious standards? [[Applause]] [[We go to church every Sunday.]] The most critics of this law are not those who represent social Poland, citizens' Poland, but those who represent Poland's elite, Poland's oligarchy, clan Poland, Poland's caste. [[Applause]] [[And Matuszewski's mom.]] You're the ones who would like to make paris, make money so they can serve you on Sundays, and you and your hands in your pockets will buy Italian salami on Sundays, while that woman on the register will make money for the mortadel for the children who haven't seen the house and the mother. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] And that is the basic question in this discussion: about moral standards. [[Applause]] [[Excellently said.]] [[Ask Mark Matuszewski if Sundays...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u404	Thank you very much, sir. The question is asked by Janusz Śniadek, a club called Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u405	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Dear Friends of!Solidarity! He's the giggle of history, which was already raining here, that we're not fighting today like 35 years ago just for Saturdays off, but also for Sundays off. [[Tell me if they work for you.]] [[You're talking about past tense, jackass.]] Different environments, maybe lobbyists, in this situation, so that Poland is a neocolonial country, are opposed to this regulation. The arguments are raised, and one of the Members here recently quoted them, indicating a 20% decrease in turnover. I ask the question: will Poles eat less bread, use less shirts, shoes, eat less groceries on Sundays? [[There won't be any hot buns.]] [[Less hot dogs at the gas stations.]] It's so absurd that you can't prove it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is the answer to all your questions... [[What about union hotels, Mr. Chairman?]] ...does it take into account...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u406	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u407	...that the turnover in Polish trade will not fall. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u408	The question is asked by Antoni Duda, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u409	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Dear Applicants! We are discussing a civil project that restricts trade on Sundays. Trade entrepreneurs - especially those from large-scale shopping centres - and some Members - are presenting this ban as a fall in trade, an economic collapse, a raging rise in unemployment and similar disasters. My generation and a little younger remembers the time when we worked on Saturdays and on Sundays the shops were closed - except for exceptions. And we were alive. In many European countries, Sunday trade is very limited, and we are the only ones facing economic disaster. Where are the workers' rights? Where is the care of an employee and his family that we claim to lean on with such care? [[Everyone.]] A decisive reduction in trade on Sundays, especially in sectors not necessarily necessary, is a step towards respect for the dignity and right of workers and their families to celebrate Sunday together. After all, we are in the vast majority of Christians. Shopping can be done on won several decades ago free Saturdays. [[Do Christians go shopping on Sundays?]] And by the way, it was a few decades ago that we fought for Saturdays off, and now we have to fight for Sundays off. [[The bell, the applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u410	Thank you, sir. The question is asked by Mrs Krystyna Wróblewska, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u411	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Invited guests! I wanted to thank the Civic Committee of the Legislative Initiative very warmly for wanting to restore Sunday to the family. [[Applause]] I would therefore like to ask the question whether the restriction of trade on Sunday to large commercial networks, large-area shops will contribute to the reactivation of small family shops which have been closed for many years because these networks have been created and systematically destroyed our Polish domestic trade. So I ask the question: Will the situation of small Polish shops which regularly pay taxes in the country and not abroad improve? [[And how is that possible?]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u412	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Zbigniew Biernat, Club Law and Justice. Excuse me, I've left two Members. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: What is this new practice, marshal?]] They were abandoned, I left them on the list.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u413	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Dear Applicants! I would like to thank you very much for preparing this bill and gathering as many as 500,000. signatures. This is an act. Restoring Sundays for families, and above all, I think also restoring the ethos of commercial workers. How much was said here today, especially from the modern club, about the ethos of an employee who often doesn't even have time to go out from money to toilets or work too hard, works on Sundays. I think there have also been proposals here to force other professional groups to work on Sundays, and we do not work on Sundays ourselves - I mean the Sejm's deliberations. It's a great demagogy. [[Applause]] Many times it has been said that it will lose its economy. I have a question for the Minister, if... [[Don't you go to harvest parties?]] ...other branches, i.e. tourism, the world of culture or... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u414	Thank you very much, sir. The question is asked by Mr Jan Duda, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u415	Mr. Marshal! Minister! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Currently, a trading worker is a cog in the machinery industry of commercial corporations, he is an employee working not with customers, but next to them, without contact, except:.158. Card, cash? Thank you. That's what it looks like. And so for the whole week, also on Sunday. And the consequences of all this are us - it's not free, it costs. Trade networks treat an employee like lemon: squeeze, throw away. And now the question is whether it is true - and here I ask not only as a Member, but as the one who signed up for this project - that signatures were collected only among trade workers and their families. And the second question is, does this law prohibit eating, consuming all that we have so far consumed on Sundays? Thank you very much. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u416	Thank you. The question is asked by Mrs Anna Paluch, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u417	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Applicants! I have a question primarily for Members of the Civic Platform. So few of them in this room, one delegate left behind. Where did you get this alarming data, like 85 grand? lost jobs. Who, on what grounds... [[PwC.]] ...how did he make these estimates? 'Cause I have the irrefutable feeling that... [[Because you had to prepare for the meeting.]] Member, allow me to finish. Why do you not want to take note of the fact that the turnover of trade depends mainly on the wealth of society? [[Applause]] If the consumer has money and needs the goods, he will go and buy it - at best he will have to better arrange time to fit in at the time he has to shop. [[What are you saying?]] And the obvious question is: Don't supermarket workers, mostly women, have the right to spend Sundays with their family like people? And once again I address the PO and the Modern: Why do you support the double standards that Western stores use, i.e. at home, in Germany, Austria, Denmark, [[♪ The bell ♪]] they must respect workers' rights, and in Poland...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u418	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u419	...12 hours a day, seven days a week, they're plowing employees for penny wages. [[Applause]] [[And not here.]] [[I mean, you guys are in charge.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u420	The question is asked by Wojciech Skurkiewicz, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u421	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Dear guests! High Izbo! Let us be honest - if the trade networks were to treat workers seriously and honestly, this debate would not be in the Chamber today. If the big networks, the big trading companies, were fully fulfilling their obligations and their hopes for the workers who work there, there would be no problem. If they could pick up their days off when they wanted to, when they could pick them up within a week, if they had a decent salary and had a lot more to pay for Sundays than they normally paid for a week, it wouldn't be a problem. But this is not the case in Poland. Poland is treated as a colonial country by large networks, by large commercial companies. If someone says that in Poland the number of jobs can be reduced by 85 thousand, then I would reverse this question - 85 thousand. The families will have their mom over Sunday dinner... [[Applause]] [[Yes.]] ...she'll have a mother with a child in the church, she'll have [[♪ The bell ♪]] also time to do homework with the child. Let's think about this. [[And they're gonna lose their jobs.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u422	Thank you very much, sir. The question will be asked by Wojciech Buczak, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u423	Mr. Marshal! Minister! (PL) Mr President, NSZZ.Solidarity! Colleagues of!Solidarity! Once again, we do not actually hear the arguments, but we are scared - but above all Poles - that the solutions that citizens make to the Sejm will harm these citizens, they will harm them. There are many different ominous omens here, how many jobs will be lost, how many entrepreneurs will be lost, how many traders will be lost. Hence my question to the applicants for the citizens' bill. After introducing days off not only from trade, but from work at all, a few Christmas days, a few years ago it happened, we can already add these things today, sum up, see how it really was. Was it really such a loss and such a injury for everyone? I have a request for an answer to the question... [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u424	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u425	Thank you very much. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[But the Member is disciplined.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u426	The question will be asked by Mr Tadeusz Cymanski, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u427	Mr. Marshal! Whether we like it or not, we are heirs and heirs of great values. Question: "How did it happen, how it is possible to think that after 25 years here, in Poland, in the country which is the cradle of the "Solidarity," here our pope sat and spoke to us, he said to the Sejm: Do not hide the generosity... How is that even possible? Isn't it just embarrassing at this point that this late justice... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Don't scream here, don't say anything. You can discuss specifics, you can shout numbers. Elementary law. They then won, so it seemed, they claimed Saturdays, and today they must beg for Sundays, they must ask for them in this parliament. Are we not ashamed? Who are we anyway? Ladies and gentlemen, this is the law of the poorest, weakest professional, feminized, female group. Everyone's responsible, our formation's responsible, too, yes, we're responsible, but we're sorry that they've been waiting all these years. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Not on the question of whether, just on the question of what this bill will look like. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u428	Thank you very much, sir. The question will be asked by Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u429	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to ask the Members of the applicants why they are lying and not talking about real statistics. [[Posts of applicants?]] The ban on trade on Sundays will not hit big commercial networks, especially food, because on Sundays they make 10% Rotate... [[Voice from the hall: And a colleague said 20.]] [[Where do you guys get this data, everyone charging somebody else?]] ...they will actually do great work on other days of the week, only hit small and medium-sized Polish entrepreneurs who have their commercial points in shopping galleries. They're doing 30% of their turnover on that day. They have signed tough lease agreements and will have to pay them, especially them. We have heard a lot about how bad the Polish entrepreneur is, this Polish... Ladies and gentlemen, the Polish entrepreneur hasn't had a holiday in years, he has a problem, because he has to wonder every day how to get another contract, how to obtain due payments, so that he can have the money to pay at the end of the month... [[Why are you screaming like that?]] [[Madam, there are microphones, please don't shout.]] ...and today it comes to this, how to meet all that PiS is going to come up with. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Look who signed off on this - Polish Chambers of Commerce.]] I have another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u430	The question will be asked by Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u431	How would you like to stop Internet commerce? [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u432	... Paweł Lisiecki, Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir. [[The mic's in the O.R.]] [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Then don't yell. If you weren't screaming, I'd be...]] Madam, please do not interfere with the proceedings. [[Paulina Hennig-Kloska: You are the most disturbed.]] [[Keep your fingers on you.]] [[Let's lower our emotions.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u433	What you have just said, Mr Marshal, is not very real, because in 2015 the so-called "Hungary" was introduced. Sundays are free. This regulation lasted for a year. Free Sundays were abandoned only because the opposition party demanded a referendum on the prohibition of trade on Sundays, while Prime Minister Orbán did not want to start another conflict between society in the face of the immigration crisis and the conflict with Brussels. However, with the introduction of free Sundays, Members and Members, many shops have seen a sharp increase in turnover and retail sales across the country have increased by 5.6%. And the employment... [[Voice from the Chamber: Stay.]] [[Question and home.]] ...up almost 2%. There was a change in the pattern of trade - customers visited small family shops more often. Question: "Do applicants expect the same effects on Polish trade and workers after the introduction of free Sundays in Poland?" Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u434	Thank you. The question will be asked by Mrs Teresa Glenc, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u435	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Dear guests! In the studies carried out by the project's originator, the National Secretariat of Banks, Trade and Insurance NSZZ.Solidarity, in a group of nearly a thousand people employed in large-scale shops, was provided with results clearly indicating the need for employees to have a free Sunday. It is well known that reducing work on weekends, especially on Sundays, is socially desirable for health reasons. It is also known that forced work affects low productivity. I have a question for applicants: Does the results of the study clearly indicate that working on Sundays is a stress factor for both the worker and his family? Is 70% does workers find it difficult to reconcile work and family life as a cause of chronic stress and fatigue? It's about work on Sundays. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u436	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Małgorzata Golińska, club Law and Justice. There is no Member. Mr Rafał Weber, Club Law and Justice. You're an MP.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u437	Mr. Marshal! Dear Applicants! Ladies and gentlemen at the Gallery! High Izbo! Minister! Minister! I'll start by asking you a question. At the last Convention, the Civic Platform by Mrs Joanna Mucha said, quote: The 500+ programme has withdrawn a quarter of a billion Poles from the labour market. [[How much? She wasn't wrong about the Chinese?]] She was obviously wrong, of course she was wrong. [[She's improved. She's improved.]] She probably meant a quarter of a million Poles, or 250,000. On the other hand, Minister, my question is related to the unemployment rate which is currently in Poland. It's the lowest in 25 years. The rule of law and justice for 10 months, while the unemployment rate is the lowest in 25 years. And since Mrs Fly is wrong... [[Mizaria on this platform.]] ...talking about the $250,000. The Poles have been withdrawn from the labour market by the 500+ programme, and you are equally wrong about 80,000. jobs will be eliminated by reducing trade on Sundays. [[It's not us, it's the experts.]] [[Voice from the hall: Which one?]] Just as the modern one is wrong, which also cannot properly fill in the accounts. [[Applause]] [[Get ready.]] Civil and Modern Platform, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Leave the economy and public finances alone. We'll take care of it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u438	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Sylvester Khrushch, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u439	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Dear Applicants! High Izbo! I live in Szczecin, 10 km from the German border. Nobody in this town where the Platform wins and the Modern has good results, doesn't think about going to the German shopping site on Sundays, because everyone knows there are stores closed. You don't have to teach them to do the right thing in there. Therefore, I have a question for the Platform and the Modern, whether they are planning some social action in Germany to show Germany that you have to work seven days a week after 12 hours, that you can be a neocolonial country, that you can promote foreign capital in your country, that you can not promote Polish brands or respect your own family. This is a fundamental question for you, because these complexes you are showing, this disbelief in the Polish family, it is simply unbelievable. This is the world of values that Mr Cymanski was talking about, which you simply do not understand in the world of your complexes. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u440	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Elizabeth Stępień, the Modern Club. There is no Member. Mr Piotr Polak, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u441	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Mr President, together with the entire Legislative and Civil Initiative Committee, Ladies and gentlemen! To the summit of absurdity, the examples cited by the Members of the opposition say that this project will lead to the elimination of 80,000. or 60,000. - We hear jobs here all the time. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you at this point, because this is obvious nonsense and untrue, Mr President, if there are known studies that even speak of a different trend, that every job that is created in a large-scale store is causing the loss of 3 and 4 jobs. just in small trade, in family shops, where Poles, as research shows, are still shopping on Sundays and days off. I'm lucky to live in a small town where there's no market, shops run by families, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which work on Sundays, so you can do these shopping.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u442	Okay, thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u443	And that's what they should be thanked for. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u444	The question is asked by Mr Sylvester Tulaev, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u445	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The bill restricting trade on Sundays is not unique. Such tightenings, such restrictions apply in many countries of the European Union, and that is what the parliamentarians have already said, but I see that the opposition keeps forgetting about it. A lot of people who support this bill are reporting to my parliamentary office. Meeting of more than 518 thousand by the Legislative Initiative Committee signatures show that this project is socially expected. Moreover, I have to say that many people working in various hypermarkets, markets address me personally, recognize me and say that they expect this project to be adopted. Members of the opposition are threatening the economic disaster after the adoption of this law. I would like to ask you Members, although there is only one person from the Civic Platform, how do you assess the economy of Germany and Austria, [[♪ The bell ♪]] where such sharpenings, such a total ban shall apply. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[I'll answer you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u446	Thank you, sir. The question is asked by Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u447	Mr. Marshal! Dear guests! High Izbo! Knowing that a project restricting trade on Sundays would eventually go to the Sejm, I tried my best to prepare for it. I've had a lot of conversations with salesmen, cashiers, people who work at these points, and I've asked them what they think about restricting trade on Sundays. Definitely almost everyone agreed on the validity of this law. However, I also talked to people who like it, more, got used to shopping on Sundays. They even thought it was like taking their smartphone or tablet away for a while. My question: How do you want to convince people who are used to shopping on Sundays who say they work all week and only on Sundays have time to shop, which is obviously an excuse? Wouldn't it be necessary to have an information campaign that goes to people who spend time on Sundays only on shopping and walking in galleries, informing that instead of walking in galleries, you can spend that time with children, you can go [[♪ The bell ♪]] with family, friends for a walk to the park, movies to the movies, cafes. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u448	Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Mr Stanisław Szwed, will now speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u449	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Dear Representatives of the Citizens' Initiative Committee! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I will start historically because there are three people in this room: Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, Mr Tadeusz Cymanski, my person who started the fight for Sundays and holidays 20 years ago. [[Say it all.]] Today we can say that part of this fight we won because we have 12, and now 13 holiday days. If we can compare, having some experience, it is worth recalling that time when we discussed the ban on trade at Christmas. Then we were scared of 6 billion budget losses, 40,000. people made redundant, so that today, this rate that the opposition state is presenting here - not all clubs - shows that it would be even greater losses that we are talking about. That is not the case, and I think that in many of these speeches it was clearly said. Ladies and gentlemen! The Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, because I can present this position today -- there is no government position yet -- is positive about this citizens' initiative, about the Sunday trade reduction project and this recommendation on the government's position we will be presenting. Of course, as we have said here, we need to work this project calmly on the committees. There are a few things that need to be clarified, possibly changed, but we are open to a common, broad debate. One of the things that needs to be regulated is whether or not this is the law that you have proposed, the restriction on trade on Sundays and the ban on trade on holidays, we exclude from the Labour Code, we include in this law, or otherwise. Because in this law we have to settle all matters, including the ban on trade on Sundays, and the ban on trade on holidays, because it has to be consistent. That's the first thing. As far as other changes are concerned, we will also recommend in the position that the rules on trade restriction be clear and simple. The less complicated it is, the better I think. There are several proposals worth considering: i.e. the question of the surface, whether to introduce such solutions, i.e. the issue of market counting, whether to introduce or not to introduce such solutions. The ban, which is a clear ban, does not cause any other complications or circumvention of laws that unfortunately happen in our country quite often. That's what we're open to, that's what we're going to make. Once again, I can only repeat that the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, with Minister Elżbieta Rafalska at the head, will recommend the positive position of the government on this project and the rest of the work in the Committee on Social Policy and the Family. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u450	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Alfred Bujara, representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee, will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u451	Thank you very much for your questions. Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, A lot of questions, I'll try to answer, maybe not all of them, but a lot of them. Today, not only trade workers, not only employers, are actually with us, but also their children, but thank you very much for that. But it's late, so go to sleep. Thank you for coming today. [[Applause]] thank the Members for the Sunday off with their parents, because with such inscriptions on their shirts children came to the Polish Sejm today. I hope that their message will be heard. Thank you very much. Today is actually your day. I know that a lot of employees have been following this debate, and a lot of employees have been rooting for us and saying, "We are thumbs crossed for this to work." I think it'll work. Thank you very much to the Minister for his positive opinion on our bill. We realize that there is a lot to process and change over it. We're open to this, and we're counting on it to happen in the Parliamentary Committees. I will start with the topic that was most often discussed here, the consequences of the infringement of this law, first of all the consequences of monetary sanctions, because these are included, second, restrictions, and thirdly imprisonment. Ladies and gentlemen, it was a compromise, we took it with the Polish employers. Why? We only assumed financial consequences in the form of fines in the first place, but it was the employers who said to us: Listen, since we are to pay 5,000. $ fine, as much as the boss of 86 hypermarkets will pay and he'll open up, and we'll get $5,000. Zł won't be able to open it, it's not fair. So let me say this, ladies and gentlemen: All the rules are subject to certain penalties, because even this law, this initiative of the civil committee imposes a penalty of 2 years for violating this law. Many such are penalties that are imposed, penalties not only in cash. For example, the Penal Code imposes three years of punishment for exploitation: Whoever exploits another person's compulsive position, enters into an agreement with him by imposing an obligation to provide disproportionately with mutual benefit, is punishable by imprisonment up to the age of 3. So, ladies and gentlemen, there are many references to the Penal Code, and we have also applied it. Of course, if the Parliamentary Committees, honourable Members, turn this penalty into a monetary penalty in committee, but suitable for turnover, we are open to it, but at the stage of writing this project, I think, otherwise we could not do it. Here, too, we ask ourselves as trade unionists, as employees, why there is so much noise on the part of employers, and it is these large international corporations when it comes to punishing. Do they presume that this bill will be leaky enough to allow them to function and trade on Sundays? Do they presume that they will trade every Sunday, fall into redecises and be deprived of liberty? That's the rule: hit the table and the scissors will talk. Something's not working here. Polish employers say: we do not mind, we do not intend to violate this law, so let this punishment be. However, as I said, we are here as an open initiative committee. Ladies and gentlemen, I very much regret that there are no Members and Members of the Platform among us at the moment, people who have asked many questions. [[It's their nature.]] Mrs Janyska asked whether the children of employers who will have to work on Sundays should also not spend the day with their parents. Ladies and gentlemen, employers who will be able to trade on Sundays will not be forced. [[It's up to you.]] They will have a choice, unlike employees, because employees have no choice. And the next question, which was also often asked here, about the layoffs - whether workers are concerned about the layoffs in trade. I'm the one who's gonna ask the employees who are up there, whether they're afraid... [[Voices from the room: No!]] ...about your jobs. [[Voices from the room: No!]] [[Applause]] She wanted a written reply, we give a broad oral response. These are the people who work in hypermarkets, discounting, but also in small trade. Ladies and gentlemen, in answer to the questions asked - as is the case in the European Union - I will say this: in the European Union, the ban or restriction of trade on Sundays is currently covered 72% residents. Nine countries in fifteen are banned or restricted on Sundays. This was already said: Germany, Austria, Greece, Belgium, France, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, Spain - not to mention Switzerland because it is outside the Union, but very rigorously... [[Democratic country.]] A Democratic country with very high GDP, where you can't really do a lot of work on Sundays, because even a car can't be washed on your own street. Ladies and gentlemen, regarding further questions. Will there be a drop in turnover? Here I'm going to refer to other questions, because there were questions about the fact that it's 10%. trades in hypermarkets that lose small entrepreneurs, etc. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Sunday turnover is a row of 13% right in those markets and discounts. These are researches, these aren't invented numbers, and these are 13%. or 13.2% It's less than Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday, because they don't see any more growth than Thursday, Friday and Saturday. So you could say there are more viewers on Sundays than buyers. The employees themselves, as I mentioned earlier, are not afraid of being fired because today there is no one to work for. Today, employers for bringing an employee a bonus give... [[They're giving you a bonus.]] ...because no one wants to work under such difficult conditions for such a lousy amount of money. [[Applause]] And that is what must be said today in the Polish Parliament. And it is a pity that there is no Mrs Janyska, because there was also a reference to the working conditions of trade workers. Ladies and gentlemen, for 26 years, solidarity has been insisting on these workers, especially since hyper- and supermarkets began to dominate the market and introduce their customs. They were supposed to give good jobs, and today it's exploitation, as the workers themselves say, colonialization, hyper-exploitation. In the previous parliamentary term, we protested under the Sejm, wrote letters - I have these letters with me today, a letter to Minister Kosiniak-Kamish - we talked about the conditions, we wanted dialogue with employers, the big ones, from hyper- and supermarkets. They don't have a dialogue with us. Why? They have a good position in the country, someone created it for them, why should they talk to an employee? They make money, they make profit. Why date, why do we have to have a dialogue? They don't run it. The next letter - Ms Ewa Kopacz, President of the Council of Ministers, and the next letter - to the Minister, etc. These writings were very many and, ladies and gentlemen, we still have no answer to this day. [[Well, he's not gonna be here now, 'cause how?]] [[Hey, hey.]] During the protests we led, only Mrs Rafalska, today's Minister, came to us. And for that, I thank her dearly, [[Applause]] Because she was among the employees, she understood these employees. Today, the state of Modern and Platform is asking questions so unobvious and so inhuman, unearthly... [[It's cosmic.]] Cosmic, yeah. Why aren't you living in this reality? I suggest you go for a month... [[Oh, sir.]] ...for discounting or hypermarket work, and then we can think and discuss work with you. [[Applause]] The work that a slave is doing today, as we say. We're not afraid to talk about it. Ladies and gentlemen, you were talking about lobbying gas stations. No, it's not lobbying. I can't imagine closing these stores at gas stations under 80 m2. What's the public gonna say? That is not enough, I ask the question: do you know the countries of Europe where petrol stations are closed? [[What about the employee working there?]] What about the employee? There's no employee, there's only a cashier. That's where the stuff's laid out. [[Fantastic!]] But that's public utility. Member, these are... Let's distinguish between an employee who has to work and an employee who doesn't have to work. A worker who has to work and serve, in the service, in the service of a motorist, on duty in an ambulance and an on-call nurse who has to work and for this duty should be paid. Ladies and gentlemen, the High Sejm, we cannot allow that in Poland we will make a normal working day of Sunday, because the employees say: Why are nursery schools closed, why are nursery services closed, why are the offices closed? [[And the Seym.]] We'd like that, too. Why isn't the Seym working? [[Why isn't he working?]] No one is forcing you to work on Sunday, either. [[Applause]] So let's not make Sunday a regular working day. Those who have to work and serve should be properly rewarded. And even those services... Because you were worried about students who couldn't make money. Yeah, they'll be able to make money in services that are and should be better paid than in the hypermarket, because new jobs will be created and we know it. That's what happened in Hungary. Ladies and gentlemen, in Hungary, as you have already said here, there has been a 5-, 6-percent increase in sales and a 2% increase in workers. It wasn't big for Hungary, but it happened because you needed these workers on Fridays and Saturdays. So that is not true, what you have said here, because you have not prepared for it. We know that. And Prime Minister Orban withdrew for political reasons, and we all know that. On Sunday we had a referendum on refugees and the reception of outsiders. It was connected. The Prime Minister didn't want to lose. Today we are launching a project, which is a civic project, which is consulted with Polish employers. There was a concern about whether Polish employers would lose. But they're here today at the gallery. [[Applause]] They wouldn't be, ladies and gentlemen. And that lobbying thing. Ladies and gentlemen, isn't what I have in front of me a lobbying? How someone orders a report.The retail market in Poland. The potential effects of Hungarian regulatory solutions on Polish commercial networks... There is also talk of turnover tax and free Sundays. Ladies and gentlemen, the report was produced on behalf of the Polish Trade and Distribution Organisation. From the Polish name, because she brings together hyper- and supermarkets, discount on Western capital. It's only in the name "Polish." This is lobbying, because who pays and orders... [[Who did this report?]] Please? [[Who did this report? What company?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u452	But please don't argue with me right now.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u453	Maybe we won't... Dear Member, I will tell you later because we are not doing advertising or anti-advertising... [[He better not go in the deep water.]] ...but you can see it... [[We'd like to know.]] ...how he lobbies in Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, such cases of lobbying by large, among others. In the media... Why in the media? Because of thousands of commercials. Today one of the networks spends as much on advertising as on wages for employees, and there are no raises. Not much, I'll tell you, there's no social security fund because he's not paying it. This is an outrage. [[Applause]] But it does for commercials. We do not prohibit, sir, because we cannot prohibit, advertising is necessary, useful, necessary to be clear, but the employee as a basic unit is also very important and cannot be overlooked, cannot be ignored. There was a question about the effects of the free holidays. Ladies and gentlemen, holidays show that the increase in sales, as I also said, in the pre-Christmas period, in these holidays, especially Christmas and Easter, on these other days - because it is all the time we are watching and studying - is, as I said, 5, 6 percent in principle, bigger than the whole weekend next. There is also an increase in employment, because customers need to be served this Friday and on Saturday, these cashiers We need to open more. So it's necessary. In the economy, in nature nothing is lost, this money will be spent and the proverbial Kowalski, when he has the funds... Make sure that society has these resources and can spend them from Monday to Saturday. That's what I'm asking you as Members to make sure that society has something to buy for, because they're gonna make these purchases, and nobody's gonna be hungry for a Sunday off. I wanted to address further questions. Is it true that signatures were collected only among employees? No, signatures were collected among Poles. I'm also answering the next question. We asked Poles because they asked why we did not ask Poles. We asked them at the time of the signature collection if they were against it. [[A survey of a million.]] Among other things, the CBOS report, which has been presented in recent days, talks about this. There are also very detailed questions in this report: Will the turnover in trade decrease in your opinion as a result of a possible trade ban on Sundays - yes or no? No, because people will do more shopping on other days, so the Poles said. [[Logical.]] That's the evidence. Ladies and gentlemen, we knew by working on this project how social feelings are. We knew that Poles noticed these problems of employees and would support us. Because we did these polls on Sundays: why are you shopping? Most of them said, 'Cause it's open, it's closed, I get it, I'm not coming. Today such regulations take place, so we cannot say: do what you want. Let's cancel Sundays, as I mentioned, let's all work, it's abnormal, and let's not make the workers lose at every turn, they'll be exploited.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u454	Is that all?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u455	Ladies and gentlemen, the effects of the bill, the increase in turnover - this is what I was talking about very much. I'm establishing... The turnover will not fall, because as I just said, Kowalski with 100 zł in his wallet will not buy again on Sundays, and no one will... In Poland you can shop from morning to evening, even at night, which we will not experience in Western European countries. You've been asking questions about the results of the tests, about stressfulness. Yes, such research was done in Poland and in the west of Europe. The Institute of Labour Medicine in Łódź, together with the national commission in the research project on 12 industries, showed that among others. trade is leading to highly stressful professions and industries. It translates into a lot of bad things. What is the real purpose of the bill? I think that if someone today does not understand what the real purpose of the law is, then I will briefly say: abolition of slavery in Poland, [[Applause]] 'Cause otherwise it can't be said. [[Very nicely said. That's right.]] Can we afford it? The Member said that 80,000. People will lose their jobs, 65 grand. He's gonna lose his job later. Where did you get these numbers? You have been referring to the Jagiellonian Club - last 100,000. I'm calling the authors of this project, and for two weeks I'm asking for justification, even yesterday I sent a text to the head of the Jagiellonian Club: please give me the calculation, the methodology, where you got it. [[There isn't.]] The head of the Jagiellonian Club says he will talk to the author of these studies. No, it's out of the sleeve, with the hat taken data, and we know it. [[Applause]] [[Ceiling times air.]] Did you ask how many consultations were held and with whom? I think it was enough to read the justification of the bill. It says who we consulted. [[Not much.]] It says who's on the team, who's on the committee. Those people who are on the committee, those employers' organizations... [[It's a union bill.]] Looking at the gallery, I see that these employers, these business organizations are present today, and I thanked them. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I am very firm that this is a project of workers and employers.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u456	Please proceed to the end of the speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u457	You asked me about online shops, so I answer briefly: in this respect Things aren't gonna change. You will be able, like today, on Sundays also make this transaction, choose the goods, buy, but currently on Sundays online shops do not deliver the goods and we assume that will continue to do so. Of course, a single internet user will be able to. With regard to an online store that does not process its articles, processed products, it concerns among others. About Allegro. If one of the Poles puts his thing on Allegro and wants to sell it back, it's just unprocessed, uncreated articles. And this is where we predicted it, too. [[Unprocessed work.]] Logistics. That's what I was talking about in my speech. Warehouses, wholesalers, ladies and gentlemen. And there's a misunderstanding here, too. We have accepted the argument of these large commercial networks which said that when logistics is closed, transhipment warehouses, also warehouses, then on Monday there will be no goods in stores. And that's an argument, because with an increased sale on Saturday, it's logical. So we took the principle that warehouse and logistics center workers would be able to work on Sunday, but with the employee's consent, i.e. with a 100% supplement. [[Applause]] And that's the point, 'cause everybody's working hard today. These logistics workers are moving tens of tons. Market workers, moving from 2 to 6 tons, because the teller moves so much, work for free on Sunday. Yeah, it's free, as they say, 'cause she gets a day a week. This is a Sunday job for free. And these employees will be able to work 24 Sundays a year, so they will have every other Sunday free.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u458	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u459	Now, Mr. Marshal, I'm just seeing if there's any more... [[Everything.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u460	I think you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u461	The PIP was still about the State Labour Inspection. We think that these checks will be appropriate at the moment, because this cooperation with the State Labour Inspection has really begun to function, but, ladies and gentlemen, I will not be divorced here. I am sending you to the reports of the Polish Labour Inspection, as it is in fact. [[The platform's already gone, she doesn't listen to the answer.]] She's all gone? I'm sorry, ladies and gentlemen. That's what it says about... [[The voice from the room: It's all gone, last one.]] [[One of the Moderns is left.]] But they'll be able to listen to this speech. To conclude, I would like to say this: we are counting on understanding many Members. We thank those colleagues who supported and will vote in favour of passing this law to the Parliamentary Committee. Of course I agree... For example, gifts, somebody mentioned gifts. Ladies and gentlemen, there are no gifts in Polish law, so this also came out during the collection of signatures. Enough of that, the opposition forgot to ask one important question, and I mattered to him. And I'm asking them now: aren't you afraid - that should be the question - that workers working for trade, so protection, cleaning companies, will lose their jobs? Ladies and gentlemen, I have asked myself this question, but I will answer it. No, we're not scared. Do you know why? Because today, this employee of the cleaning and security company had to work at the lowest national work sometimes 260 and 280 hours. in a month, and thanks to the Minister from the new year he will be working 162 hours, because these 13 zlotys guarantee it to him. [[Raised stakes.]] And that's a bow towards these workers. [[That's fair.]] And that's fair, at least that's it, because if someone gets a 4.50 or 6.50 hourly rate, it's really unethical.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u462	But don't ask yourself any more questions, because we'll be here by morning.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u463	And, ladies and gentlemen, I am surprised by the honourable Members of the Modern and Platform that they do not feel these problems, do not try to help workers, but I hope that this will change, that this law will start changing working conditions, wages. It is not just about Sundays, but, as I mentioned, about working conditions, wages in Polish trade. That is what I ask of the Minister, because he knows these problems, and honourable Members. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] [[Some Members stand up, long-term applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u464	Thank you very much to the representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee. The discussion is closed. A motion to reject the draft law at first reading was put forward in the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. On this... [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal, corrigendum.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u465	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I move that the citizens' project be addressed to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u466	Thank you very much. This motion will be put to the vote in the voting block. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 4 October this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Any of the ladies and gentlemen of the House yet? No one's checking in. I consider the list of Members of this House to be closed. As the first Mr Sylvester Khrushch, the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u467	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the previous two weeks, many railway debates took place. Europe faces new challenges in this sector. I participated in the debate two weeks ago, at the Berlin Conference on Interoperability and Safety in Rail Transport in Poland and Germany. As a representative of the Committee on Infrastructure of the Polish Parliament, I had the pleasure of opening this event. As a Member from Western Pomerania, I am keenly interested in good cooperation between Polish and German railways. Shortening of train travel time, among others. on the route Berlin - Szczecin, Kostrzyn - Frankfurt, Görlitz - Zgorzelec and in other areas of our border and increasing security will benefit Polish profits related to tourism, economy, culture or education. I told my partners from Germany that for the Polish parliament railway matters are very important. Standardisation related to interoperability and railway safety rules is particularly important in this respect. I said that in Poland there is currently a major amendment to the Rail Transport Act covering most of the provisions of the directives on the creation of a single European railway area, on the interoperability of the rail and safety systems and on implementing regulations. Safety here is the most important element. After the data I heard at the conference, the number of railway accidents in Poland as well as in Europe is systematically decreasing, which shows effective action and improved safety. In international rail links, we are closest to dealing with the functioning of railways between neighbouring countries. In this sense, cooperation between Poland and Germany, our biggest economic partner, is extremely important. We are the closest neighbours, we have cross-border connections in passenger and freight transport, we have a lot of common interests in the rail industry, because Polish entrepreneurs simply pay off all of this. As practice points out, there are barriers in this area that we talked about at the conference, but I am convinced that the process of integration of the rail system and more effective cooperation is gaining momentum. Poland's railroad is currently facing a major challenge. We have the largest EU funds for rail transport in history to be developed. This is around EUR 10 billion in the 2014-2020 budget perspective. I am convinced that good cooperation between Poland and Germany in the area of safety and interoperability will help us gradually to adjust the level of Polish railways to the level that is represented by developed, modern railways in Europe. We will then be able to translate these experiences into cooperation between countries, between the Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship and the royal voivodship, between the Małopolska region, between our entire country and the Czech Republic and the Slovaks. So that is a big challenge and we should take them for the benefit of passengers, for the safety of passengers. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u468	Thank you very much. I encourage the States making statements to make them in writing because they have the same power of influence. Please, Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u469	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In my statement, I would like to raise the issue of the functioning of housing communities. In retrospect, there are shortcomings in the Property Act of 24 June 1994. A lot of conflicts between tenants and problems in the operation of so-called. small housing communities are affected by Article. 19, according to which, if the number of unseparated and unseparated premises still belonging to the previous owner is not more than seven, the rules of the Civil Code and the Code of Civil Procedure for Co-ownership shall apply mutatis mutandis to the management of the joint real estate. In the Civil Code Act of 23 April 1964 in Article. 201 we find a record: for the activities of the ordinary board, the consent of the majority of the co-owners is necessary. In contrast, in the article. 199 we find a provision: the regulation has a common interest and other activities which exceed the scope of the ordinary management board, the consent of all is required. Consequences of the application of Article 199, when the consent of all co-owners is required, are far-reaching. Very often one resident blocks important decisions for the community, even though the majority have a different opinion. This causes conflicts between tenants most often occurring during the planning of renovations. In the assessment of real estate managers who meet this phenomenon on a daily basis, decisions should be taken by the majority of joint owners in communities regardless of the number of residents. Another important problem in the functioning of housing communities is the division of one building into two housing communities or more. There are often conflicts in the settlement of used water or during renovations of the entire building. In the assessment of real estate managers, housing communities should be constructed on the basis of a whole block of buildings with their own water and sewage connections and heating connections. In view of the situation described, I ask the High House to take an interest in it and to introduce legal solutions that will improve the functioning of housing communities. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u470	Thank you very much. The statement will now be made by Antoni Duda. How about in writing, sir, for the minutes?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u471	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! During the last session of the Sejm, my previous speaker, Jarosław Gonciusz, informed the High House about the 70th anniversary of the murder on the troops of Henryk Flame's branch By the way, the same place of murder - a clearing in the woods near Barut - is already the Śląskie voivodship. September 27th this year The President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Duda, following the announcement from the election campaign, visited the district of Strzelecki. In Opolskie Strzelce he met with local government officials and residents. The program of the stay in this region enriched, visiting almost exactly on the 70th anniversary a place called Silesian Katyn, where UB murdered soldiers. The president laid a wreath and paid tribute to the heroes, the soldiers who were cursed. President Andrzej Duda was also on St. Anna, a place special to the people of this land. There he celebrated the memory of the Silesian insurgents and laid a wreath under the monument of the insurgent act and visited the basilica of St. Anna SamoThree, where he was greeted by the bishop of the Opole diocese, Professor Andrzej Czaja. I would like to express my thanks to the President on his own behalf and, I believe, many of the inhabitants of Opole for visiting the above mentioned memorial and worship sites so important to the inhabitants of our region. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u472	Thank you very much. The statement is made by Mrs Joanna Borowiak, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u473	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! After all, every beginning is just a continuation, and the history of events is always half open. The beginning of October is also the beginning of a new academic year, which brings new opportunities and opportunities. It is also an opportunity to take once again the difficulty of learning, which can bring much personal satisfaction. Science discovers the beauty and mysteries of the world, builds a sense of belonging to the community in a young man. The university educates and educates its students, future scientists. The President of the Republic of Poland, Mr Andrzej Duda, said: "Poland needs to make maximum use of the intellectual potential of Polish universities and Polish scientific staff to build a strong state based on dialogue and understanding. Today, Polish science needs acceleration and development, the right pace for scientific excellence, modernity and partnership with business and society. Announced by the Minister of Science and Higher Education, the Strategy for Scientific Excellence, Modern Higher Education, Partnership with Business and Social Responsibility Science is a good change, the real shape of which will give the feeling that the work of science people does not serve science only, but also serves the development of the Polish state in a broad sense. Great, honourable Rectors, on your hands I wish the most dearest wishes for all scientific staff and students of Polish universities. There's another year of hard work ahead of you. I wish he was a good year. I wish students a lot of success in acquiring knowledge and new skills. Academic teachers improve competences and courage in setting ambitious goals for the development of Polish science, for strong Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u474	Thank you very much. Mr Simon Giżyński with a statement. The Member is famous for his brief statements. This is a sure hope for all of us. [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u475	Sustained, Mr. Marshal, good opinion of your marshal... Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, on 4 October, at the inauguration of the next session of the Seym, Mr Krzysztof Brejza insinuated Polish special services and the Polish government, among others. by e-mail of the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. Since the insinuations of Mr Breyza are ingrained into the repertoire of foolishness and nonsense that he uttered, it is good for us to borrow from the hangman and reach for the weapons of ceremonial incantations, saying, "Let the spell flow to this place, we will put Breyza in the fifth slap." Thank you. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u476	Thank you very much. Indeed, the Member has not deceived you. Now Mrs Lidia Burzyńska, Club Law and Justice. I think it's a succinct statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u477	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! 2 October this year two important celebrations took place in the municipality of Olsztyn in the district of Częstochowa, namely the 90th anniversary of the establishment of the local voluntary fire department unit and the anniversary of the 60th anniversary of the Primary School in Biskupica. As a Member of the Częstochowa Land, a member of the Scientific and Youth Education Committee and the Parliamentary Firefighters' Team, I could not miss such important events. I was honored to be able to participate in this important day for the local community. 60 years is a long period in which it developed, transformed and changed the school base in Biskupice. In 1956, the efforts of the political and educational authorities of that time, as well as the involvement of the residents, were put into use by the new school building. The school in Biskupice is a small institution that appreciates very much the development of its students and has a cultural function. Today from this place, Mr Krystyn Walczak, the principal of the primary school, I would like to convey my greatest words of appreciation, which I also address to teachers, administrative staff, service for the work you have done so far, for the perseverance, heart and dedication with which you do your daily work. I hope that the efforts of the management and pedagogical group supported by parents and local government will allow for further building of the school's glorious history, and that further yearbooks of students will boast of belonging to this community. On October 2nd, it was also a solemn day for the Volunteer Fire Service in Biskupice. The culmination of the 90-year history of the unit was the consecration and official acquisition of a new light combat vehicle, which was handed over to the firefighters by the commune of Olsztyn and the chairman of the commune council. I wish all the bridesmaids and bridesmaids of the Volunteer Fire Service in Biskupice a lot of satisfaction in performing their duties in the field of daily firefighter service as well as social service. Please also accept and convey your wishes to your loved ones, whose attitude in life often gives you strength every day and makes it possible for you, without fear of your own home and family, to commit yourselves to statutory obligations. Thanking you for your service so far, I would like to convey to you the warm wishes of human respect and sympathy. May you have as little work as possible and as much satisfaction as possible from your firefighter's involvement. I am convinced that, as so far, also in the future, God's slogan for glory, for the benefit of people will accompany you in your daily ministry. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u478	Thank you very much. Mr Bartłomiej Stawiarski with a statement. Are you an MP? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u479	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The nearest Saturday in the hall of the Orla in Namysłów will host the open championships of the Opole children and young people in the wrestling of girls and boys. From this parliamentary chamber I wanted to wish the organisers and all participants a successful competition and a lot of satisfaction. I always respectfully approach this ancient discipline of sport, emphasising the balance of body fitness and spirit strength. Wrestling requires incredible sacrifices and self-discipline. Competitors, players and activists should be provided with adequate conditions for stockpiling and adequate support. Unfortunately, this is not always the case. Those negative trends should be reversed. I greet the wrestlers and activists of the People's Sports Club with a sporty greeting.Eagle of Thoughts giving the Republic of Poland great players and players, including the Olympics. I'll see you Saturday. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u480	Thank you very much, sir. The statement is now made by Mr Piotr Uściński, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u481	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today I wanted to defend the unborn children conceived as a result of rape. It is these children who receive the right to live. Even though there aren't many statistically significant rape pregnancies, it's still so wicked that innocent children are killed. The child is responsible for the rapist's father's guilt. Wouldn't it be fair to punish a rapist rather than a child? Moreover, the child is killed when there is only a suspicion of committing a criminal offence, and the rapist is liable only after the trial when he is proven guilty. I'm sorry to hear the often repeated arguments that killing a child will help a woman forget that a child will be like the trauma of rape all her life, that abortion will keep a woman from being raped from suicide. It's bullshit not supported by any data, no research, no statistics. These arguments are just an emotional game. Unfortunately, these emotions are influenced by a part of society, even by people who respect the unborn. The fact is, the current bill is another rape on a woman. After the trauma, a woman has been undergoing medical therapy for months or even years. It is only after that time that he can make decisions that are fully free, in harmony with his own will and conscience. On the other hand, the abortion bill forces her to make a dramatic decision within just 12 weeks. It's causing a huge additional trauma. The facts are that fortunately 70% Women give birth to children conceived as a result of rape. Studies confirm that none of these women regret their decision. The facts are that 78% of those women who decided to have an abortion, then regret their decision. Unfortunately, it's too late, the baby's dead. Ladies and gentlemen! In the debate on the protection of life, let us not forget these smallest innocent children conceived under dramatic circumstances of rape. It's not their fault. Let them live.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u482	Thank you very much. The statement will now be made by Mrs Józef Rzczurek-Żelazko. Come on in, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u483	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On October 4th, we celebrate World Oncology Day. On this day, patients can take part in various types of special actions, organized in oncology facilities, during which they can use advice and free studies. The most important thing is that cancer can be cured almost 100% provided that the disease is diagnosed early. The most common oncological changes in men are lung cancer, prostate cancer, colon cancer, and breast cancer in women. Prevention is essential in the fight against cancer, which can prevent or contribute to the detection of cancer at the earliest possible stage, and this will enable complete recovery. However, prevention is not only research, but above all a change in our lives for the better. The development of cancer stimulates the wrong diet, excess alcohol, lack of physical activity and accumulated fat tissue. Therefore, it is important to educate the public about the importance of dieting and physical activity. With this statement I would like to draw the attention of all Poles to the concern for their health.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u484	Thank you very much, Member. The statement is now made by Mrs Teresa Nolas, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u485	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Yesterday, 3 October, the Independent Self-Governmental Trade Union of Individual Farmers (Solidarity) expressed its opposition to Poland's possible signature and ratification of a comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between the European Union and Canada (CETA). Signing of the WW. agreements pose a real threat to the viability of Polish family farms and Polish agriculture and will adversely affect the food security of the Polish society. In the adoption of this bureau of the National Agricultural Council.Solidarity. calls on the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Polish Parliament to reject a comprehensive economic and trade agreement between the European Union and Canada - CETA. At the same time, in this statement, I would like to point out political responsibility and the negotiation period on this issue - August 2014. In December 2015, the European Commission made public its mandate for negotiations, and on 23 September this year, an informal meeting of European Trade Ministers made initial declarations on its adoption. The ministers were in favour of protesting NGOs - against. Undoubtedly an important argument is that the terms of this agreement were not in any way the subject of consultation with the social side. On 27 October, at the European Union-Canada summit, this agreement may be initialled. Ladies and gentlemen! The provisions of this agreement pose many risks and raise many important questions. Allow me to raise agricultural doubts from this speaker and as a Member of the Republic of Poland. So I ask: Why should Europe adopt Canadian rules and technologies in such important matters as industrial and agricultural culture? Many of us are simply asking what kind of state this European Union is, and who gave it the right to decide on behalf of the nations? It is already known today that the conditions of CETA will lead to the disappearance of family farms and with them healthy, traditional forms of plant cultivation and animal breeding. It should also be borne in mind that Canada is one of the largest producers of genetically modified food and that GMO products will necessarily appear on the EU market. Where are we going? - that's a good question for today. After all, we are responsible not only for ourselves, but also for future generations of Poles. Responsibility is fundamental. The responsibility should not be defended, responsibility should always be shown and demonstrated, and especially in such a place as the Polish Parliament is undoubtedly. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u486	Thank you very much. Mr Andzel made a statement to the minutes. The statement will be made by the Member... [[No, no, I'll speak quickly, Marshal.]] Please, Mr Waldemar Andzel, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u487	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 2 October this year We celebrated the 70th anniversary of the death of a Polish scientist, inventor and president of the Republic of Poland Ignacy Mościcki. This great measure was born on 1 December 1867 in Mierzanów. He was from a noble family. His grandfather was a participant in the November Uprising and his father was a participant in the January Uprising. The special ability of Mościcki to mathematical and natural sciences resulted in chemical studies at the Faculty of Chemical Technology of the Ryska University of Technology. At that time, he was associated with an independent socialist movement. In 1892, he and his wife left for London. He continued to study there while working as a worker. In 1896, he met Józef Piłsudski, a year later he went to Switzerland, where he began his scientific career. In Fryburg, he completed a supplementary course. In time, he became a technical manager in one of the companies. The company financed Mościcki's research, which built high voltage capacitors and later conducted numerous experiments. It was Ignacy Mościcki who, becoming a world-famous expert, invented, among others. how to protect the electrical wiring network from electrical discharges. In time, Mościcki missed his homeland and took a job at the Lviv University of Technology, where he took over the Department of Physical Chemistry and Technical Electrochemistry. Since 1922, he has been the Chief Executive Officer of the State Nitrogen Union Factory in Chorzów. After 3 years he took over the Department of Technical Elektrochemy of the Warsaw University of Technology. Well, he was. author of over 60 scientific works and 40 patents. He became a member of the Academy of Technical Sciences and was also a doctor of honoris causa of 17 universities, among others. Sorbonnes and Lviv University of Technology. After the turn of May, Józef Piłsudski was elected President of the Republic of Poland. However, he did not accept this choice while supporting Ignacy Mościcki's candidacy. The third President of the Republic of Poland was sworn in on 4 June 1926. On 8 May, 7 years later he was elected for his next term of office. For a long time, Mościcki, mainly through the current March Constitution, performed honorary and representative functions. The President's broad powers were given only by the April Constitution, which entered into force in 1935. Shortly thereafter, Józef Piłsudski died and there were doubts as to whether Ignacy Mościcki should continue to hold the office of President. Mościcki did not resign, instead he built a political camp around him, in which deputy prime minister Eugeniusz Kwiatkowski played a huge role. After the outbreak of World War II and Soviet aggression on 17 September 1939, together with the government and chief chieftain, President Mościcki was in Romania, where he was interned. On 30 September, he submitted his office and handed it over to Władysław Raczkiewicz. At the end of 1939, he left for Switzerland, where he lived until his death. Ignacy Mościcki died on 2 October 1946 in Versoix near Geneva. In 1993 his remains were brought to Poland and placed in the crypt of the Basilica of St. Jana in Warsaw. The symbolic tomb of Ignacy Mościcki is located in the Alley Deserved in Warsaw's Powązki. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u488	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Szramka, the Kukiz Club15, will now make a statement. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u489	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Since 1 January 2017, the provisions of the Public Collective Transport Act of 2010, introduced with the consent of the Government of PO-PSL, have entered into force. As a result, reduced tickets for rail and bus journeys for disabled persons, students and children commuting to schools will disappear. Several million Poles now benefit from the relief. Despite the ban on citizens' relief, there will still be free travel for parliamentarians. During the election campaign, PiS repeatedly assured that adverse rules would be changed immediately. You've been in charge for almost a year. When will you fulfill your promise to Poles? I appeal to all parliamentarians for reason and reasonableness. In Poland, it is necessary to provide logical and reliable transport with so-called reliefs. These groups of Poles need these reliefs very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u490	Thank you very much, sir. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u491	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 23 September 2016, the celebrations of the 100th anniversary of the First General High School were held in Puławy. Fr. A.J. Czartoryski. High school is, popularly called Czartorychem, the oldest in Puławy and an extremely well-deserved high school for the city, founded in 1916. He has been named Prince Adam Jerzy Czartoryski since 1918. For many years the school held the highest positions in national high school rankings, for more than 20 years it was the best Polish high school. Stanisław Eustachiewicz, the primary initiator of the school's establishment and its first director since 28 October 1916, was Stanisław Eustachiewicz, who, under difficult conditions, provided the school with a high level of teaching quite quickly. I'll add that in the house where he lived, there's my parliamentary office. The purpose of the school was to shape the future Puławy intelligence to work in the expected independent homeland. On 1 December 1918, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of The State School of Reality received the name of the State Secondary School. Fr. A.J. Czartoryski. On 9 June 1923, the foundation stone was placed under the new school building. The transfer of the new premises took place in October 1926. Since 1928, the male school has become a co-educational school. Already in the pre-war period, the school gained the rank of a very high educational institution. Many outstanding educators worked there - some of them, like Alexander Kosiba, made a significant contribution to the development of Polish science. During the occupation, the geography teacher Włodzimierz Zinkiewicz organized a secret secondary school and high school in Puławy, which he led until the end of the war. Thanks to the courage and generosity of teachers, even in these terrible years, the school did not stop its activities. The conspiracy education included 462 students, 73 people received a small and 14 people had a high degree. The first postwar school director was Alojza Szubartowski (1945-1966). Other directors were Aleksander Chromiński (966-1990), Tadeusz Kobusiński (1990-1991), Ignacy Czeżyk (1992-1996) - Member of the Sejm, Urszula Giedyk (1996-2004), and from 2004 until now the director is Beata Trzcińska-Staszczyk. Andrzej Duda, President of the Republic of Poland, took the patronage over the celebrations, while the media patronage included Lublin Television, Radio Lublin, Puławy Television and Puławy Radio. The celebration began with the solemn Mass of St. in the church of St. Our Lady of the Rosary for thanksgiving for 100 years of high school existence, as well as for management, teachers, school workers, students, parents and graduates, and all the dead who have created the climate of the Czartorich for decades. The ceremony was concelebrated by His Excellency Fr. Bishop Mieczysław Cisło, and Fr. Cannon, Peter Trela. In his homily, the bishop, thanking him for 100 years of the existence of the I LO, mentioned the role and merits of the Czartoryski family and its prominent representatives and the important tasks of this unique school: deepening the awareness of the great cultural heritage, fidelity of goodness, beauty and truth, traditions and roots, from which they grow the most beautiful values. After Mass in the high school building, a plaque dedicated to the alumni I LO was solemnly unveiled. Fr. A. J. Czartoryski, soldier of the steadfast Marian Bernaciak. - Orlik. A plaque funded by the graduates on the anniversary of the 100th anniversary of the school was also unveiled. Further part of the ceremony took place in the Puławy Cultural Centre of the Chemist House. Among the invited guests were among others. representatives of the Czartoryski family - Princess Barbara Czartoryska, Irena Bylicka, Prince Kazimierz Czartoryski, His Excellency Fr. Bishop Mieczysław Cisło, Małgorzata Sadurska - Head of the Chancellery of the President of the Republic of Poland, Przemysław Czarnek - Lublin Voivode, representatives of Puławy Members - those attended the meeting of the Sejm, representatives of local authorities, representatives of many institutions and workplaces, present and retired teachers, numerous graduates of high school. It was a touching moment to recall all the silhouettes of late directors, teachers and school staff who had created her extraordinary image for 100 years. Their memory was commemorated with a minute of silence, and the young people and their guardians laid a ribbon on their graves and lit candles. During the jubilee celebrations, Princess Barbara Czartoryska received Honorary Citizenship of the City of Puławy. The laudation emphasized her enormous patriotism, commitment and great attachment to Puławy, the tradition of the Czartoryski family and the school itself, whose princess is a great friend. On the other hand, the Chartory Family Association of Herbu Pogoń Litewska for the first time awarded exceptional prizes for students who achieved outstanding results in science. A number of guests gave occasional speeches, including Małgorzata Sadurska - the head of the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland, a high school graduate, read a letter from the President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Duda. The president of Puławy Janusz Grobel gave commemorative medals to teachers who deserved the city. At the end of the ceremony, the House of Traditions was officially opened at the school. The celebrations of the Jubilee ended the performance entitled "J. "Next ex" directed by Beata Burecka and a math competition for graduates and their families. I regret that because of my duties as Members, I could not personally attend these beautiful, unique celebrations. From this point on, I wish my school further success - high-level education of young people and successful graduates in all areas of life. With the help of the school, let them serve their country with dignity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-04-sejm-27-1.u492	I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. On 5 October 2016, by 3 p.m. 9. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 23 min 21]]
