ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u1	I open the 30th session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I appoint Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski and Senator Jerzy Wcisła to be the secretaries of the sitting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Jerzy Wcisla. I would like to inform you that the Sejm at its 21st meeting on 3 and 4 November 2016 adopted all the amendments of the Senate to the Act amending certain laws specifying the conditions for carrying out innovative activities and the Act amending the Road Transport Act. In the absence of any objections to the minutes of the twenty-sixth meeting, I declare that the minutes of this meeting have been adopted. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose that point 9 and point 13 of the draft agenda be considered, although the committee's reports on these matters have been submitted at a later date than specified in the Rule. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. State Senators, I propose to delete from the agenda item 10: second reading of the draft law amending the Act on Teacher Compensation Benefits - and consider it at the next meeting. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. State Senators, I propose to supplement the agenda with a point: Act amending the Law on the system of common courts and certain other laws and consider it as item one of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. You're welcome, Senator Bogdan Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u2	Mr. Marshal, on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I would like to object to considering this point. This bill goes on. than the structures that were in force in the Polish People's Republic. It does not agree with the Senate to restore, so to speak, the Polish People's Republic also in this area. Therefore, we categorically oppose the examination of the law, according to which the prosecutor has more competence with regard to the courts than he had in the period of the Polish People's Republic, which ended happily in 1989. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u3	Thank you very much. We are voting on my proposal. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 71 Senators voted 47 in favour, 24 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 1]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the High House has accepted the proposal that the Law amending the Law on the system of common courts and certain other laws should be on the agenda and that this item should be the first item on the agenda. State Senators, I propose a change in the order of consideration of the point: the Law on amending the Rail Transport Act and some other laws and consider it as item two of the agenda. If I do not hear the votes of opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. I understand that no one objected and the proposal was accepted. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? No... [[Marshal Borusewicz.]] Yes? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u4	I would like to apply for a change in the order of consideration of the points in such a way that the Law on the amendment of the Law on the General Courts is not in the first paragraph, but in the fourteenth paragraph.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u5	Mr. Marshal, but we've already voted this out, and she's going to be at point one, so we're not going to vote on the same thing again. Excuse me. [[The vote for introduction was.]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Yes.]] We've already voted it out. [[But we voted to introduce a point, I understand.]] [[For introducing a bill...]] Oh, and you're the marshal... [[Conclusion on order...]] No, my conclusion was to introduce this point and introduce it as the first point. And that's what we voted out. If Mr. Marshal makes a motion that doesn't make any sense, I'll take it and vote on it. So you want this point to be point 14 rather than the first? [[Yes.]] Good. I'm against it. I think it was overruled, but it's okay. Please, we'll vote... [[Excuse me, Mr. Marshal...]] But we're voting on the motion right now... [[But why?]] [[Why not?]] [[That's not according to the rules. Why are we voting on something that has been adopted? We might as well be voting on moving today's sitting.]] [[The Marshal is in session.]] But I've decided we're voting, Mr. Senator, and we're voting. We are voting on Mr. Marshal's motion to move this, so that this bill is not at point one, but at point fourteen. I'm against it. Who's in favour of Mr. Marshal Borusewicz's motion? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. There were 73 senators voted, 27 for, 45 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 2]] I state that Mr. Marshal Borusewicz's motion has been rejected. Does anyone else want to speak on the agenda? No. I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the 30th Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term. High Izbo, today at 1:45 p.m., an hour's adjournment will be ordered. Tomorrow's proceedings will begin at 10.00 a.m. from the point considered: information on the Ombudsman's activities for 2015 and the status of respect for human and citizen freedoms and rights. Tomorrow, at 12:00 p.m., a half-hour break in the session will be ordered for the opening of the exhibition "Henryk Sienkiewicz" (life and creativity). High Izbo, I inform you that in the case of the adoption by the Sejm of the following laws at the current meeting and the preparation by the competent Senate committees of reports on their case, the Act amending the Act on Retail Tax and the Act amending the Act on Individual Income Tax and the Act on Corporate Income Tax, the agenda will be supplemented by items covering their consideration. In addition, in the case of the preparation by the competent Senate committees of reports on the Act amending the Law on Feed, the Act amending the Act on Commercial Quality of Agricultural and Food Products, the Act on the Status of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal will be supplemented by items covering their examination. I would like to inform you that the votes on the first and second points will be held after consideration. The remaining votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We'll proceed with the review of the point... [[Senator Zdrojewska reporting.]] There you go, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u6	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Could I ask for a half-hour break so that I can go, take the law on courts and read the law and the amendments that have been made by the committees? Would you please...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u7	Is there an objection? Mr. Senator Martynowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u8	Yes, Mr. Marshal. I object.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u9	There you go, we are voting on Senator Zdrojewska's motion. Who's in favor of a half-hour break? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 72 senators voted, 26 were in favour, 45 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 3]] [[Senator Piotr Zientarski requests the floor.]] Excuse me? [[Piotr Zientarski...]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u10	Conclusion, Mr. Marshal. I'm asking you to announce a 15-minute recess, because actually... I'm gonna say I'm running this bill on behalf of the club, but I don't have any material because I didn't think it was gonna be in the first place. I've got the materials at my place, and I need to get them. So...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u11	Good. I'm gonna call a 15-minute break. [[For example, to bring materials...]] But, Senator... [[We're not all prepared to...]] Well, then you've got a bad organisation at the club. There was the Senior Convention, there were arrangements. Marshal Borusewicz and Senator Augustine present at the Senior Convention should inform you of this. And that they didn't inform... Well, that's too bad. I'm calling a 15-minute break... [[Thank you very much.]] ...until 11:27 p.m. [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 12 to 11 minutes 27]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on the system of common courts and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 318 and the committee's report In print No 318 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Michael Sewerynski, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Law on the Law on the System of General Courts and certain other laws adopted by the Sejm on 4 November 2016 amends 10 laws. Firstly, as part of the revision of the general court system, it introduces the principle of transparency of the judges' property statements. Public Information Bulletin will publish public statements of property. If disclosure of the information contained in the declaration could endanger the judge or the persons closest to him, the declaration may be covered by a classification entity as a reserved person. The Minister of Justice is entitled to abolish this clause. Secondly, it establishes the criminal liability of the judges for wilful misrepresentation or concealment of the truth in the estate statement This is a criminal liability for making a false statement. In order to eliminate the doubts raised so far whether such an act constitutes a criminal offence or merely a disciplinary offence. Third, the limitation periods for disciplinary offences of 3 to 5 years after the act was committed are extended. Where disciplinary action has been initiated before the limitation period expires, the limitation period shall be extended from 5 to 8 years after the act has been committed. Fourthly, in the event of a court order other than an injunction or an ex officio disciplinary penalty, the Judge shall not be able to serve for five years as President of the Court, Vice-President of the Court or Head of the Court Centre. Fifthly, the catalogue of disciplinary penalties is extended by a new penalty consisting of a reduction in the basic salary of a judge from 5% to 20% for a period of between 6 months and 2 years. Sixthly, rules were introduced for the judgment of the judges of the combined penalty in disciplinary proceedings. The second group of amendments focuses on the issue of the chronicity of judicial proceedings. It was originally intended to be a central issue, the core of the amendment. The need for such amendments results from the need to implement the pilot judgment of the European Court of Human Rights of July 2015 in the Rutkowski case and others against Poland. This judgment concerns not only the three applicants mentioned in the judgment, but also 591 other persons who have alleged infringement of the Article in their actions. Article 6 (6) (a) 1 the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which requires the investigation of the case within a reasonable period of time, and Article. 13, which had to do with refusing to make amends. In view of such a large number of complaints brought before the Court, Poland has been covered by the so-called. enhanced surveillance procedure in January 2011 On 24 September 2013, the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe issued a decision stating that, despite the reforms made in Poland, problems still exist concerning the functioning of the complaint concerning the length of proceedings and related redress. The Committee found that the compensation granted was too low and that, when assessing the merits of the action, the Polish courts make the so-called. fragmentation of the procedure, as they assess the duration of only part of the proceedings prior to the application, instead of taking into account the entire length of proceedings in the case from the start to the final judgment. The most recent major changes to the amendment are the provisions of the Article. The 10 laws that concern, in short, the possibility for the prosecutor to request the return of the case file from the judicial procedure to be prepared in order for him to carry out the necessary procedural actions, where, in the opinion of the prosecution, compelling circumstances have emerged indicating the need to seek evidence or there is a need to carry out other actions aimed at supplementing the investigation or investigation. This change goes very far, because there is a proposal in the Act that such a withdrawal may also take place at second instance, i.e. in appeal proceedings. The court would repeal the judgment under appeal and refer the case to the prosecutor. During the committee meeting, a discussion was held on this law. We have listened to the statements of the ladies and gentlemen of the senators, as well as the opinion prepared by the Legislative Bureau. Amendments tabled by the senators were also tabled. As a result, to the bill I've just filed... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Marshal, I'm having difficulty sharing my attention. I'd ask you not to comment until I'm done. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan:]] [[Please allow the President to continue.]] Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. In the framework of these amendments, the following amendments were proposed to the Act I referred to. First of all, there is a block of several legislative, technical amendments proposed by the Senate Legislative Office and adopted by the senators. Thanks to them, this law will be better written in terms of legislative technology. As far as substantive changes are concerned, 3 of them are fundamental, so I will provide them in detail. Firstly, the law provides for a sum of PLN 500 for each year of delay in the examination of the case, but the statements that we have examined thoroughly show that the Court in Strasbourg clearly stated that the minimum must be PLN 1 000. Therefore, despite the opposition and the separate position of the government, we have introduced an amendment which provides that it will be no less than PLN 1 000 per year. In these most controversial two provisions concerning the prosecutor's request to return the case to the preliminary investigation, an amendment was made that the prosecutor would be able to file such a request, but only until the court has delivered its judgment. Consequently, an amendment was also made to delete the provision which provided that such an application could have been made in appeal proceedings after the judgment was delivered by the court of first instance and that the appeal court would have to revoke the judgment. These are the most important substantive amendments plus the technical and legislative amendments mentioned above, which the committee voted by a majority. There's also a minority request that you filed with Senator Zientarski. So much for the report. I'm ready for any questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u13	Thank you very much, Mr President. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Do any of you senators have that question? You're welcome, Senator Rybicki. Then you're Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u14	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator rapporteur, you mentioned that the need for an amendment, the law we are discussing today, is the result of the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights. He alleged that matters were not dealt with within a reasonable period of time and that the length of proceedings required some kind of legal response. But this amendment goes beyond the so-called. the ratio legis, i.e. the space resulting from the Court's judgment, even in respect of statements of property of judges or the aforementioned Article. 10 draft law. I would like to ask if during the work of the committee there were speeches which justified the extension of the scope of the law. That's the first question. And second question. I would like to ask the senator how it is regulated in other European countries. Has it also been the subject of a committee meeting on how it is regulated in other countries of the European Union as regards the transparency of declarations of property of general court judges? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u15	Senator, I'm not gonna answer the second question because I didn't study the subject. As for the first case, for example, it is clear from my report that the law we are talking about today, i.e. on the amendment of the Law on the System of General Courts and certain other laws, as usual it contains provisions concerning not only this main law, but also other additional laws, so we actually have a few cases placed in this single law. I have to say, it doesn't happen for the first time. It's a pretty common practice. We can, of course, discuss whether these matters, which are from different laws, are sufficiently coherent and related in this one, but this is a matter of assessment. This case was not the subject of any discussion at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u16	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u17	Minister! Mr. Senator! Professor! I'd like to ask. On the basis of your legal knowledge, can you tell me if there was an equivalent provision in the article? 10, allowing the prosecutor to withdraw the case to the D.A.'s office, at the request of the D.A., during the P.R.P.L. period? Was there an equivalent provision?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u18	In fact, I could say that this was not the subject of the meeting, because the report does not concern it, but I can say that this case was raised in your argument by the Minister of Justice, who pointed out, for example, the UK, where there are no restrictions. I can say, without betraying the secret, that I have tabled an amendment in this part in such a way that this limitation of the right of the prosecutor to demand a return of the case is public and ultimately very far-reaching, because it seemed to me that, in accordance with the rules of the criminal procedure in democratic countries, until the time of the judgment, the parties are still able to do a lot of things, but after the judgment is given, it is only for the court and not for the prosecutor. And that's why it didn't seem reasonable for me to allow the prosecutor to drop the case even at second instance, when it is known that the judgment is already under appeal, and thus force the court to quash that judgment at the request of the prosecutor, even though the prosecutor has normal means of appeal to demand a repeal... And that would be such an extra way of destroying the court's ruling. That's why I made such an amendment. It seemed to me that solutions such as those in the UK, which you spoke of by the Minister, And as a well-known processor, he knows what he says, but they're unique, and our procedure hasn't been done before. However, I would like to stress that this is an accident provision, which only applies to cases brought before August this year and will not be applied for the future.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u19	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions to... You're welcome, Marshal Borusewicz. One more question, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u20	Yeah, one more question. Forgive me for asking such a simple question, but I didn't have the opportunity to get to know... At the moment, I am taking note of the amendments tabled by the Senate Committee or at the Senate Committee meeting. In the Seym's introduction... If your amendment is not passed, does this mean that the prosecutor can touch the sentence... well, not touch it, but at the prosecutor's request, can you withdraw the case to the prosecutor's office even if there is a final judgment at second instance? Is that... Was that in the seym introduction?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u21	It doesn't come from my reading. There's talk of a case that's at second instance, which means it's not over. Yeah, but there was a conviction at first instance. Whatever happens, we'll see the Senate vote. The amendment is tabled and we have the right to support or reject it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u22	Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u23	Professor, did you have opinions on this bill from business corporations? And were the representatives of these corporations at the committee meeting? As we know, the greatest losses are when the length of proceedings concerns entrepreneurs. What is their opinion on this subject, on the amount of this amount, 1 thousand PLN per year of chronicity, and that is after the Senate amendments... Did you reach for those opinions?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u24	Only a few representatives of non-governmental organisations benefited from the invitation to participate in the committee's meeting, because the association of the judges of the "Iustitia" was represented and expressed its view and the National Council of the Court of Justice presented its view. No economic organisations took part in the meeting, we have no opinion on this.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u25	Thank you. Senator Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u26	Professor, I have already mentioned that the ratio legis of this law is to shorten the length of criminal proceedings, civil ones. But this controversial article. 10, which says that at the request of the prosecutor, the court refers the case to him in order to complete an investigation or investigation, in fact extends such proceedings. So there is a clear contradiction between the writing of this article and the idea behind the amendment. Did the committee's meeting bring up this subject? Was it discussed?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u27	Mr. Senator, this aspect was raised in the discussion. As I recall, Senator Zientarski spoke about this and the representative of the Iustitia was talking about it. There is no doubt that there is a temporary relationship here, because once the case is dropped, it can of course take a little longer. According to the Legislative Bureau, even a few Supreme Court rulings were cited, which were aimed at the fact that the withdrawal of the case by a second instance court, the annulment of the case, the retrial of the case... although it has full legitimacy in the criminal procedure, its consequence is the extension of the entire proceedings. Of course it is. I'll remind you that today, in the Code of Criminal Procedure, there's a rule that says that the prosecutor may request a return of the case to be completed until the main hearing begins. The court itself may, by its decision, refer the acts of the case to the completion of an investigation or investigation if it considers that it lacks certain evidence without which it cannot judge. All of these provisions certainly affect the duration of the procedure. No, among others. because, in order to mitigate the consequences of this article, I have tabled an amendment which I have tabled on the point that only until the judgment has been given can be returned. There are still important consequences, but I will not discuss the whole criminal procedure here. In any case, after reading it, it is undoubtedly an important article. That's why the committee In short, in support of my amendment, she opposed its acceptance as it was sent from the Sejm to the Senate.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u28	Thank you very much. Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u29	Thank you very much. Dear Senator, I'd like to request information on the judges' property statements. This issue has been discussed in society for a long time; there are arguments for and against. I would like to ask your professor to present his arguments for and against the committee meeting. What are the arguments in favour of disclosure of property claims and what are they against? Is there any further change in the case of statements other than those concerning their disclosure? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u30	This matter was raised critically in the discussion by Senator Zientarski, presenting various arguments against disclosure of statements. So in this sense it can be said that this issue was noticed, seen and discussed at the committee meeting. As far as the consequences are concerned, if I remember correctly I think there's going to be a minority request, right? [[But the minority's request wasn't...]] I'm sure the senator will have the opportunity to speak up and repeat it. I only refer to what I remember, which means that there was a critical statement by Senator Ziientarski. The Commission had the opportunity to take note of these arguments, but it did not make an amendment in this respect.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u31	Thank you very much. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u32	Mr President, in the article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Indeed, there is a very far-reaching right and in paragraph 1. Two of them going even further. In any event, I would like to ask whether you have considered this with regard to the article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, how the prosecutor would prove that there is a need for other activities. What kind of work is that? I imagine that after this proposal was adopted, the prosecutor will be like this: "I think there is a need for other additional activities. Please return the case. As I understand it, the court will be obliged to do so. I think it's unimaginable to have a procedure like this after you've adopted this article. Have you debated this and considered it?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u33	Yes, Mr. Senator. These matters were discussed in detail and critically by Senator Zientarski. I remember well that he noticed that, in fact, it was a matter of procedural proceedings that might as well be carried out at a court hearing. But he will probably take the floor himself and refer to his point of view. All I'm gonna say is that Senator Zientarski demanded that this article be crossed out at all. Well, I've made an amendment more moderate. Both of these amendments were therefore put to the vote: the one concerning the removal and then the one concerning the improvement of the content of the provision.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u34	Thank you very much. Senator Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u35	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, it is indeed so that the amendment of your professor significantly limits the article. 10. However, I would like to ask whether, during a committee meeting, there were comments made by the Legislative Office regarding the fact that we are dealing with interference in very serious, systemic matter, perhaps even constitutional, in the sense that granting the prosecutor such powers as are granted in this law, causes the judge simply to cease to host proceedings. So the question is, did the Legislative Bureau make such comments?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u36	Yes, Senator, the Legislative Bureau has given this matter a lot of room in the opinion. And you could say that there's a certain relevance to the proposal that I've made, and Perhaps even further to the request of Senator Ziientarski, who wanted to delete this provision completely. So, among other things. It's all in the Legal Bureau's opinion.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u37	Thank you. Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u38	Me on a specific case. Of course, the Court of Justice of the European Union has urged us to increase the amount of penalties for the length of proceedings. But it is to be expected that the same tribunal, since it imposed a clause of in-depth analysis on us, will carefully examine the bill discussed here. Mr. Chairman, whether the creators of a bill or senators... or whether the opinion shows that there are countries in which the prosecutor may in such a form, under such conditions I'm talking about democratic countries, European countries, interrupting proceedings and taking cases away from the court? Have such countries been mentioned, such patterns, where such things functioned? And has it also been said that we are now, in view of such an in-depth analysis, at risk of retaliation from the bodies of the European Union?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u39	Mr. Senator, that's the question I've already asked, I've answered, but I would like to repeat that I was not interested in this aspect myself. This was mentioned by Minister Warchoł, who is present today in the Chamber and will probably say something more, as he is a researcher who deals with the issue of criminal procedure. I know that in response to a question that was asked during the discussion, like yours, an example was given to the UK, where the prosecutor has no limitations. But I'm sure the Minister will tell you more when we give him the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u40	Thank you very much. Senator Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u41	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, Professor, I have two questions. First question: isn't the proposal for a draft law on common courts a reason for the President's re-appointed judges and thus an opportunity not to sign any number of nominations nominated by the National Courts? That's my first question. And the second question is, Professor, why were the work on the bill that we're supposed to proceed in such a way that the public didn't have access to it? After all, this is the second most important piece of legislation after the Constitution.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u42	Senator, first of all, in the diwags about what was a hidden purpose of the bill, I'm not strong, but I think your guess is going too far. Secondly, I do not agree with the fact that the public did not know what it was talking about, because I myself read at least 3 critical press enunciations, even more than the press enunciations that arose and were published after the Sejm's review and adoption of the law, after considering it in the committee and after its adoption. So in my opinion, this case didn't go unnoticed, it was in the media. I can even give the numbers of two newspapers in which I read relatively extensive articles on this subject of experienced judicial rapporteurs who paid attention to these issues mainly in critical tone. [[Thank you very much. I have lawyers in my family who support my question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u43	Thank you. Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u44	So far, in matters relating to the system of courts, the functioning of courts, we have usually had the opportunity to read the opinion of the Supreme Court. Did the committee take note of such an opinion? What was the opinion?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u45	The representatives of the Supreme Court did not take part in the committee meeting. As I said, all the institutions, the organizations were notified of the meeting. It was designated, if I remember correctly, over a week ago, so there was an opportunity to... All I can say is that I read quite a lot of Polish newspapers and I have seen critical statements from the judge's community there before, when the case was discussed in the Sejm, so whoever wanted to get acquainted with it. I know that committee members will also be familiar with such informal opinions, because what is written in the newspapers is not a formal opinion. In this case, We listened to those who were present. I know that in the Senate it is customary for everyone invited to speak and present their opinion.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u46	Thank you very much. Senator Augustine again.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u47	Mr President, doubling this amount related to the duration of the procedure naturally directs our thoughts towards the question: how many such proceedings are and what will the possible financial consequences for the state budget be?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u48	I think the Minister will answer this question very carefully. These preliminary estimates were presented, especially when we discussed the appropriateness of raising this amount, the lower limit from 500 PLN to 1 thousand PLN, because there was a fear that it would be a great financial effort. I will also point out that there is a fixed minimum total amount, that is 2,000, and the maximum, or 20,000, so this is a total financial improvement in terms of these compensations. Some concerns were even expressed as to whether this would be an incentive for various judicial moneymakers to gain some wealth benefits on this road. I think the Minister has some estimates about the financial consequences in these cases.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u49	Good morning... Thank you very much. Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u50	Good morning, Mr. Marshal. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Mr. Senator, because I'm not a member of the committee, and this bill wasn't provided for in the program, it was introduced an hour ago, and I just had time to read this bill and I have this question. I'm talking about art. 16, which states that the Act enters into force 14 days after the date of publication with exceptions, here are 2 exceptions: Article. 9 and Article 9 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 1). 10 and Article 10 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament Vacatio legis is short, because only 14 days. Can you explain to me why these articles should enter into force on the day following the day of the announcement?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u51	Mr. Senator, I think you're gonna answer the Minister's full question. I can only say that I know from the legislative technique such cases that the provisions contained in one legislative act enter into force at different times, at different dates. This is an acceptable solution. And for details, please ask the Minister. We did not discuss this issue in detail.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u52	Are there any more questions? Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u53	Mr. Senator, I'm also interested in extending the period of possible disciplinary sanctions against judges from 3 to 5, and in some cases Up to 8 years old. What is the cause of this? How many precedents are there, how many precedents that make this extension necessary?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u54	Mr. Senator, Mr. Marshal, this case wasn't discussed, it was just slightly hit in one of Senator Zientarski's statements. Since it was not an object of interest, I cannot say anything about what this is caused by. This may result in a desire to tighten up disciplinary responsibilities, but that is what everyone sees.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u55	Thank you. Mr. Senator Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u56	Mr President, if it is so at this moment that the prosecutor may at any time in the course of the judicial proceedings complete the evidence and if it is so that, after the unlawful judgment of the court of first instance, the prosecutor may appeal against this decision and, in the course of the appeal, present new evidence at the second instance, why is there really a categoric obligation for the court to give it, categorically, to the prosecutor to review it? I don't get it. I mean, I don't understand why in a situation where there are possible paths for the prosecutor to supplement the collected evidence both in proceedings before the first instance and in appeal proceedings, this categorical tone. Why the D.A.'s domination? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u57	I think it's easy to understand, Mr. Senator. Simply such measures, which are commonly applied, ultimately depend on the decision of the judge. The prosecutor may request a supplement to the proceedings, he may bring new means of evidence, but ultimately, the admission depends on the court. In this case, it is a provision that would give the prosecutor the assurance that his application will be taken into account. That's why it's said that the court is handing the case over to the prosecutor and that's why The state already knows that. An amendment has been tabled which, however, limits these rules until the judgment has been delivered.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u58	Senator Klich again.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u59	Thank you very much, Mr President, for this honest answer. I understand, if I'm wrong, please argue with that. That's what I'm going to say, we're flipping roles, i.e. the court, which is independent in its proceedings, becomes dependent and ceases to be the final judicial authority and the prosecutor, who is only one of the parties to the court, dominates the court. Do I understand what you just said?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u60	Forgive me, but your reasoning is going too far, has nothing to do with logic, because judgments are still being handed down. The point is whether, in the course of the proceedings leading to the judgment, the judicial authority starts from the moment the case is brought before the court and no one can violate it and limit it or allow certain exceptional situations in which, despite the fact that the case is in court, it may be returned to re-preparation in pre-trial proceedings. The court can do it itself, it has that power, that power in certain situations. They're already in c.p.k. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the - You're The minister will correct me if I'm wrong, but I've studied this piece of legislation. Before our sitting... It's a possibility, at the prosecutor's request, until the main hearing begins. This recipe goes a little further. Even in this amendment I have tabled, it is said: to deliver a judgment. But this is an exception to the rule. I'm sorry, sir, but I understood your statement as if the judgments were not now handed down by the courts. I hope we don't live to see a moment like this.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u61	Thank you. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska. [[Cell phone signal]] Please shut the phone down. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u62	Mr. Senator, I'd like to ask you something. I understand that right now, aside from your amendment... I'm sorry, I don't see you... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] I'm afraid your amendment, Professor, will not pass. So assuming she doesn't pass, we have to think about that ten. And I'm asking you this... Right now. I don't know if I'm right. The prosecutor may apply repeatedly for referral to the prosecutor's office, it is not prohibited, it is not written that he can do so only once. So the case goes into court again, and then the D.A. can file a motion again. Am I right? I wonder what, in that case, with the parties who are awaiting a fair judgment. I don't know a question that wouldn't delay any more. If, at any stage, the D.A. can ask the D.A. to return the case to the D.A.'s office... Look at this, Professor, and explain it to me from the point of view of the parties involved in the trial. They're paying for lawyers, and if the case is going on, let's assume... Well, right now, the prosecutor has a de facto unlimited authority to prevent him from going to trial, if he wanted to, because it could be like a repeated retrial. Explain that to me. I don't see the possibility of any of the parties making a complaint here either... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] I mean, whether the parties can now complain about this situation if it happens.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u63	Senator, as you have said, I have referred to this provision critically and therefore I have tabled an amendment. I have moderate optimism in my life, and on this basis I believe that this amendment will be adopted, at least in the Senate, and that this provision will, in my opinion, be improved.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u64	Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u65	Mr. Senator, I would like to be clear about the article. 10. There the prosecutor may even file an indictment within six months of the date of the case. There is a time limit of 6 months. But tell me, is there a limit to this kind of application being made by the prosecutor again? Can he only apply once? Is there a restriction on this issue?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u66	In my opinion, there is no such restriction. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Report an amendment, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u67	Senator Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u68	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. [[I'm gonna go make an amendment like that.]] Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Are you not concerned, Professor, that statements of property of judges may be used by interested parties in a case which is being conducted, e.g. Judge's address, information on his assets? That's my first question. And my second question. Aren't you afraid, Professor, that it will be political to impose financial penalties on judges, which may affect, for example, the For their objectivity in handling their cases?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u69	Mr. Senator, don't ask me about my diwags, about what I think about the future. We're bound by the lyrics. What it'll be used for, when it's used, we'll see. Each legislator assumes that it constitutes a right in good faith and that the authorities to which the right is addressed will apply it in good faith. The political experience of the state shows that sometimes these hopes are not fulfilled, but we have no influence on this. The thread you raised at the beginning, in my opinion, is important, because apart from political speculations about what will happen in the future... This was especially touched by Senator Ziientarski, but other senators spoke as well. We all had the impression that in this respect we would be equal to judges, because we have been making statements for a long time. And we may have concerns similar to those you're raising right now. So we are comforted that we will be equal to the law and that others will also be equal to the law. That's all I can say for myself as a comment. And I'm not exceeding my authority here because it was really very much discussed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u70	Thank you. Senator Zientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u71	Professor, that's actually the only way I've ever marked the problem with art. 2, but it involves my amendment. Namely: what is the logic or what is, in your opinion, the justification that the information contained in the statement of property constitutes a legally protected secret shall be subject to the protection provided for classified information, as defined in the provisions on the protection of classified information, unless the person who submitted the information consents to its disclosure, but with the exception of the President of the Supreme Administrative Court or the first President of the Supreme Court. What right do you think is in favour of this kind of solution?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u72	Mr. Senator knows the justification was weak, so everyone had to explain it to themselves somehow. I translate it in this way: well, the law approaches this area differently, it is certainly that I should say, more relative to the judges than to us, because in their case the data can be kept much more secret, in our case it is only about the address. And that's the legal solution. It seems to me that there are various reasons for this... But luckily, the Minister is in the Chamber, and you can repeat this question to him, and maybe he will say something more about it, because he explained the reasons for the bill. This thread, as you know, was not discussed at the committee meeting, but this is a thread that may arouse interest.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u73	Thank you very much. Senator Zientarski. [[The voice from the room: He was just asking...]] Oh, it's Senator Bear.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u74	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I'm just here about the transparency of the property statements. Tell me, at the committee meeting, did any of the organizations that were on it say anything about it. If so, what was the position?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u75	Mr. Senator, as far as I know, you were at the committee meeting, and you know who was speaking and what he was saying. [[Yes, I was, but not my colleagues. Some of my friends at the club weren't, and they just don't know it.]] You're the best person to say what it was like, because, as I know, you even argued about it. [[Voice from the room: But this is the rapporteur...]] Well, ladies and gentlemen, the positions were different. But it wasn't a jackpot in this discussion. In general, there were critical statements. The majority of speeches were from Senator Ziientarski, who carefully assessed the entire bill, but also the "Iustitia" and the National Judicial Council had long critical speeches, which were then slightly relaxed when they saw what amendments were tabled. Because they are to make some changes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u76	I don't see any more... [[Voice from the room: Senator Infantry.]] Senator Infantry.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u77	I'm gonna cut it short. Professor, you mentioned differences in the disclosure of information concerning Members and Senators and those concerning Judges, while in §6 there is a provision on the possibility of secrecy upon request. I have asked the Minister in this regard what disclosures of the statement of property might endanger his health or his life, and would not endanger the senator or the Member. Did... I received an answer from the Minister...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u78	Mr. Senator, I think it's a good thing that you're repeating this question because it's going to help the Senate hear the Minister answer. I can only say that it is difficult to deny such an opinion that it is the judges, and especially the criminal judges, who deal with the criminal world on a daily basis, especially if their judgments directly interfere with the lives of these defendants. So at this point, when it comes to the degree of threat, we can't compare ourselves with judges. And that might be one of the reasons why to some extent judges might be interested in secreting their statements. But I'm the one explaining it to myself.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u79	Thank you. Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u80	Professor, I'm trying to understand the nature of this change, mostly the changes in the article. 10. You cited the current rules that the prosecutor may apply for a supplement during the proceedings. But it seems to me that the essence of the universe, please remove me from error. This change is that, in this situation, the court has so far assessed whether such a request is justified or not, and now it will be so that the court will have to pass it on. And isn't that the point? Because I'm trying to figure out how much the situation will change in court.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u81	Mr. Senator, you, I believe, interpret the bill as I do. I said that in answer to Senator Klich's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u82	Mr. Marshal, just a quick question. Did you consider this senate example, Senator Piesiewicz, by looking at the provisions on property claims and threats that may occur? During the trial, the criminals declared that the data on who they hunted were derived from undisclosed claims of property.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u83	Mr. Senator, this example was not cited. [[I did. I just didn't give you a name.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u84	Thank you very much. Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u85	Professor, since I am neither a lawyer nor a member of the committee, my knowledge of this bill is acquired by me during this discussion. So in order to understand... Because, as I understand it, the essence of this law was the issues of chronicity, and an article was introduced. 10. Professor, if I could ask your Professor for an answer, I have a question: was there a clear problem during the committee meeting, why this article at all? 10 is being introduced? Because if he wasn't, if he liked listening to the Professor's diwags, I'd like to hear the Professor's diwags, why is he moving in at all?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u86	The answer is, Senator, in the contents of this provision, there is a justification. The prosecutor has to file a motion that indicates that, generally speaking, there is a need to supplement the investigation and investigation material. And that's the general justification that's in the recipe itself, that's how I feel about it. Because it's not said that the D.A. can demand, and that's the end of it. There are listed circumstances to justify this. So this is the minimum justification that can be read from the bill, and the rest will be explained by the Minister because he justified the bill. I think if you repeat the question, then...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u87	Now, Senator Florek. [[I'll ask the Minister.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u88	Mr. Senator, in the article. 109 is the provision that the basic salary of the judge should be reduced by 5% for a period of between 6 months and 2 years. I understand that this is probably about disciplinary penalties, which are added to those basic penalties, which are always, like a reprimand, a reprimand, a disciplinary penalty. I have this question because I don't really know: who's going to decide why it's 5%, why it's 6 months to 2 years, not for example. A month to six months? Was it also a question of who would impose these penalties? Because if there are forks, it's from "to," then somebody has to decide what the punishment will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u89	Mr. Senator, who's conducting disciplinary proceedings in court cases, that's what we know. And why is the recipe so formulated that there are forks? It's not uncommon in criminal law, that's fine. Let us take from the same law an example of the amount of compensation for the length of proceedings: from 2 000 to 20,000 PLN. So this construction is nothing new. It's widely used.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u90	Thank you. Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u91	Mr. Senator! (PL) Mr President, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President of the Commission, Professor! I wasn't at the two committees meeting... [[I'm sorry.]] ...but without it, I know how they voted. I will not be mistaken if I say that PiS voted unanimously in favour of this law and the other participants in this meeting were against or abstained. Your statements, and in particular your answers to the questions that are being asked in this Chamber, show that... in response to many doubts, you refer to the government as the author of the solution as an institution that knows enough about this law to decide on it. The question is whether this unanimous support of the PiS is an expression of support for the government or for this law. Is it possible to assume that the Senators of the PiS do not actually support it, but support the government? But it's not the Senate's domain anymore... The Senate should decide on laws, not vote for a vote of confidence or distrust of the government.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u92	Very strange is the question, Mr. Senator, and it's difficult for me to understand it. I don't think I've crossed the rapporteur's rules of procedure. As I remember, during five years of my presence here, the rapporteurs have not once referred, in cases where they have no knowledge, or more specifically, cases which were not the subject of an in-depth discussion at a committee meeting, to the person who was the drafter of the bill. So I guess I didn't do anything inappropriate. And all your divisives about who supports the government and who doesn't support the government, I think it's unnecessary, because everyone knows who supports the government in this room and who doesn't support it. It's out of the question. [[Was that for the bill or for the government?]] We were just talking about the bill. We have not voted on a vote of confidence in the government.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u93	Thank you very much. Senator Grabowski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u94	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Professor, I have a question. The opposition, the Civic Platform, raises the argument regarding the secrecy of claims of property. This thread is probably quite important in the case of judges ruling e.g. in criminal matters. I'm not a member of the committee, and I'd like to find out. If this was not the subject of a committee meeting, then maybe you have that knowledge, who decides to keep such a statement secret. What is the extent to which the statement can be classified? Could there be complete secrecy of the statement? The point is that the statement of the judge who is obliged to file it will be kept secret for objective and probably justified reasons. Can this be the case?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u95	The procedure is explained in the Act. In my opinion, there are no limits to this secrecy. So, if anyone has reason to keep them fully secret, I think they can make a request like that. This law offers a wide range of possibilities in this respect. That's how I read the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u96	Thank you very much. Senator Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u97	Mr. Marshal! Mr Senator, rapporteur! I would ask for a brief assessment of what this bill is supposed to do. I'm not prepared enough because it's too late to get it all... Yeah, well, I'm used to it. Tell me, does this really increase the powers of prosecutors over judges by any level? There were voices here that it is very similar to the situation we had in the Polish People's Republic, and even that this project goes on. Will greater authority, or actually greater responsibility, fall on prosecutors or judges when it comes to a fair judgment?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u98	Mr. Senator, what's in your soul is his private business. It can compare to the times of the Polish People's Republic, it can compare to the time of the Egyptian monarchy... full freedom. Everyone has the right to have some associations against the content of the bill. It's completely wrong of you to suggest that this is about increasing the power of the prosecutor over the judge. That's not what it's about, and no law in a democratic state does that. The court has power over us through case law, but not the prosecutor over the judge. I didn't hear anything like that in college and then in law practice. The point is undoubtedly to strengthen the position of prosecutor in criminal proceedings by allowing him to withdraw the case when he is already in court. From this point of view, it would be appropriate to say that this is a law that strengthens the position of the prosecutor in the trial. It was also, of course, a question of not going so far that the court would not be able to decide freely. Therefore, I would point out that this is about an accident bill, concerning only cases brought before the end of August this year, and that it will not be applied in the future. That's one thing. And secondly, as I have said many times, in the amendment I have proposed, I have sought not to go too far with regard to the power of the prosecutor, his powers. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u99	Thank you. Senator Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u100	Professor, as far as I know, property statements are being made by judges right now, but they're not made public. Yes? Is that true? [[Yes.]] Yes. And therefore, they are checked by the tax offices and perhaps by other servants. Do you have any knowledge about this, and can you tell us whether, over the course of, I don't know, years, 2 years, 3 years, there have been some very serious shortcomings, the finding of corruption, the initiation of disciplinary proceedings, the punishment of a judge for making incorrect or incorrect statements? And don't you think That's my second question. That this disclosure of the statements... Well, at the moment statements are made to the tax offices by, you can say, thousands of people, starting with county councillors, city councillors, presidents, mayors, voivodships et cetera, et cetera, and ending with us, ministers and officials of all kinds. Isn't it that for a month, two months, or maybe even longer, the IRS are doing nothing but checking these statements? Shouldn't these statements be made like other countries... Well, for example. We could submit them to the marshal and, in the event of any suspicion, verify them. Isn't that an excessive burden on the budget? And most of all, it's causing these statements to go crazy in the media. There's a discussion about who has a car, who's got what's in their bank account, and then it's like comparing it to the unemployed, with the mothers who raise their children alone, and so on. Aren't we going in the direction of some kind of absurdity?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u101	The senator runs far beyond the matter in which I have the right to speak, the more that the tax offices and their practices are known to me only in relation to my statements. As for the other people, I know what I'm gonna read in the paper. But since you're all so patiently listening to my over-the-hour speech, I'm just gonna say I'm not too happy when I see it in different papers. Well, that's what you have to call them officially. It's embezzling simple people with how much money your uncle earns, and how much old-timer, president, senator or someone else... [[Exactly.]] 'Cause it's about getting those people who make less money in their veins. I'm sorry, this goes beyond my authority to speak, but Mr. Senator has raised something that also concerns me in public life, in media practice. On the other hand, with regard to this proposal, it is the senator who knows that we have talked about this before. I have a concept in this case, but it doesn't apply to this bill. I don't think she's gonna have a chance to succeed, because someone can always say... Well, unfortunately, some newspapers, I'd say, set up public opinion. Someone might say it would be a reduction in transparency, a reduction in control... [[Yes, sir.]] ...our voters over what's going on in the power circles. So that's the price you have to pay for acting in public. [[I asked one more question regarding whether corruption was found or whether proceedings had been initiated. Because the judges are making statements right now, but they're not...]] Yeah, but it's mostly about making it public, so there's a check that hasn't been. Well, unless something was leaked from the IRS, then we knew who was driving.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u102	Thank you. Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u103	Professor! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Answer me. I'm trying to imagine, just like we always do in the Senate, some extreme effects of the legislation. Art. 10... because the D.A. can ask for a supplement multiple times and there are no deadlines that he has to keep, isn't that a threat that someone can gain the status of an eternally accused, indefinitely accused?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u104	Mr. Senator, I can predict the future just like all of us, but to a limited extent. And as for how the bill will be applied, I can't predict it. I'm just going to repeat my conviction. I always tell students that the legislator is a right in good faith and hopes that those who apply this right will act in good faith, otherwise the whole point of the legislation would be questioned. [[These are dreams...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u105	Thank you very much. Are there any more calls? I don't believe it. There isn't. Thank you very much, Professor. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Please, Minister Warchoł, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u106	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! As its name itself indicates, and the name has been changed in the course of its work in the Sejm It concerns the dysfunction of the Polish justice system. Hence the name: the system of common courts. This dysfunction applies to some 3 elements. The first is the length of court proceedings and this is a considerable length of time. The pilot ruling of the European Court of Human Rights in the Rutkowski case against Poland is a clear example of this. Nearly 600 cases have been reported in Strasbourg and will be judged by the Court if we do not put in place adequate legal measures to ensure that people who have suffered certain damage, reasonable and fair compensation for their chronicity. How do we do that? First of all, we break up with the so-called. a fragmentation of the procedure. In practice, chronicity often involves a specific stage of the procedure, e.g. the commencement of the judicial duct. This may not happen for years, but later the matter is already going on with its ordinary, normal, you can say, fast current. And here's the question: should the court, when deciding on damages, take into account only the part of the proceedings in which there has been a period of length, or should it look holistically at the whole process? The Strasbourg Court points out that the whole procedure is important from the beginning to the end. It is not relevant to the party that the interruption was at the stage of the opening of the judicial duct. The party suffered a specific injury because the procedure lasted for 10 years. She doesn't care that she didn't open the wire for two years, and then everything went smoothly. It doesn't matter to the website. We're done here. That's one thing. Secondly, we are introducing a clear provision which says that the Polish courts, when determining compensation for this, should have regard to the case law of the European Court of Human Rights. The courts should be guided by the directives set out by the Court of Justice in Strasbourg, and should not, as has often been the case, judge symbolic amounts which in no way satisfy the parties and in no way compensate for the damage suffered by the parties due to the long-term proceedings. Thirdly, we are introducing a minimum amount of 500 PLN with the possibility of increasing it if the defendant... did not contribute to the continuity of this procedure. In situations where, for example, he did not matthew, he did not torpedo the proceedings, he did not obstruct the proceedings, the court will be obliged to judge an amount higher than 500 PLN. So 2,000 is the minimum and 500 PLN for each year of duration. These are the situations where we are introducing appropriate measures, in response to precisely this judgment of the European Court of Human Rights. We have until October next year, we do so almost a year in advance, also waiting for the opinion of the Strasbourg Tribunal itself. It may be possible to obtain a preliminary assessment or assessment of such changes by a working road. The second problem related to the dysfunction of the Polish justice system concerns the lack of transparency in the context of claims of property. The judges and prosecutors are the pillar of the rule of law, they are the pillar of democracy, and if the pillar is eaten away by cancer of corruption, then the whole state is wobbling. Corruption, therefore, as an extremely dangerous activity, requires a reaction already on the pre-field of it, a distant pre-field. This pre-field is just a public declaration of property. We are following the recommendations of the Anti-Corruption Group of States, GRECO, and we are finally trying to deal with the shortcomings that have occurred in practice... I'm just going to mention the 2005 NIK report, when the NIK controllers found that some strange amnesia was shown by judges and prosecutors in property statements, forgetting their apartments, cars, villas... And finally, we implement the principles of transparency, transparency. Today was the question of where they occur. Well, they're in Scandinavia. Scandinavia is a clear example for us of a country, an open society, where there is nothing to hide. Three authorities, equally accountable to society, before the nation... According to Art. 4 The sovereignty belongs to the nation, the courts exercise power on behalf of the Republic of Poland, in accordance with Article. 174, and society has a right to know, has the right to know the state of property, the state of possession of persons who exercise justice on his behalf. So that the basic principles, constitutional canons are implemented in this area. The third element covered by this law is the reaction to the adversarial model of criminal proceedings. A lot about him here in this room was said a few months ago. We talked about why we are returning to the official model or, as some people want, the Inquisition model, as a continental model, a model that is coherent with our legal culture, with European, Polish legal culture, and why we are breaking up with this idea, with a specific experience, an experiment that we have been shareholders for several months, from 1 July 2015 to 15 April 2016. And we have a situation that during the year there were 3 legal systems: an official system, an adversarial system and again an official system. This situation causes that for a certain period of time indictments have been brought on much lower factual findings than so far. The adversarial model allows prosecutions to be brought at the level appropriate for the statement of objections. It's unbelievable, but that's what it looks like. Preparatory proceedings take a short, very short time. All the evidence is being transferred to the stage of the hearing, the adversarial hearing is intended to take evidence. Therefore, one of the fathers of this reform stated explicitly that the indictments could be brought even on the basis of findings verified even by an operational method. We don't have that in our head. So you're saying such unfinished indictments can go to court? Yeah, except no one calls it that in the counter-dactical model, but they call it the proposal of a certain accusation. The D.A. doesn't collect evidence in this case, I'd say, Anglo-Saxon. [[I don't think that applies.]] It is because it does not apply, and it has been in force for several months, that the consequences of this solution are still present today. In Polish courts, proceedings are still ongoing with the indictments that were brought at the time. And these proceedings today are in the courts and will continue. And they will continue until their final completion. Therefore, it is necessary to react, to respond in the name of the principle of an appropriate criminal response, according to which an innocent person cannot be held liable and that the guilty person should be punished. In short, this model causes that the cases that are in the courts are today, I would say. True ticking bombs, for they threaten sentences far from the principles of material truth and an accurate criminal response. Hence the proposal to return the case to the D.A. Incidental provision concerns cases that are already in the courts. Absolutely not applicable to future cases. The case pool is closed; it is about the indictments already brought before the court by August of this year. This rule will not work in the future. Returning the case to the preliminary investigation. Why? So that the D.A. can properly prepare the evidence carefully. Most importantly, the return of the case is to take place only once, not repeatedly, there is no repetition or grilling of the accused, as reported by the media, absolutely. The provisions clearly state that only once and only in the case of indictments which have already been brought. It is therefore an accident provision and a one-off return to the prosecutor concerning a specific pool of cases to supplement the preparatory proceedings for which the prosecutor will be 6 months old. Is this present in other countries? There were a lot of questions today. Yeah, he's here. Namely, the return of the case to the preliminary investigation involves a certain axiology of criminal proceedings That's what I'd say. In which the complaint is still the case, the executive authority remains. Where is it now? It is present in common law systems in the UK, Canada, Australia. There is an institution in these legal systems Nolle prosequi, which means I'm not chasing. [[We've rejected this system.]] That is why we introduce this exceptionally, only in the case of a certain category of cases. It's possible to return the case to the D.A. at his request. This is still taken from the king's authority, for the king at one point said: I am not chasing. The judge has a case, but the court says I'm not chasing. So that this kind of mechanism is known. We introduce it, as I say, only in response to this specific mosaic of 3 models that occurred in one year. It's never happened before, yes, but there's never been such a situation before, ladies and gentlemen, the Senate, where we'd be dealing with such an experiment. I would just like to remind you that in Italy, in 1988, an adversarial model was introduced after a national referendum. And when did the work start? In 1961. Why? This was considered to be an even greater reform than a change in the state system, e.g. From Chancellor to President. To this extent, such a change affects the tissue of society. So that almost 40 years of deliberations, a state referendum... And what is the effect today, High Senate, in Italy? 10 million cases are statute-barred and after many years Italy withdraws from this system. But that was mentioned a few months ago, so I won't go back to it. Fortunately, it took only a few months for us. We need to respond to these issues, we need to respond fully consciously, taking into account the responsibility for the state and for the law, the responsibility for justice and the correct response. We cannot allow guilty persons to escape justice, to laugh and mock justice just because they have the money to afford it. Not without a Cossack, this was called a reform for the rich in the media. This is the response we anticipate and propose. Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, as far as questions are concerned, I'm at your disposal. [[The meeting is chaired by Marshal Stanisław Karczewski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u107	There they are, Minister. I'm just gonna say the formula. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. I'm not asking if anyone wants to ask a question, because I already have senators who want to ask a question. Senator Rybicki first came forward. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u108	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, many questions have already been asked about the controversial article during the previous Question Time and the answers. 10, which has such a quite specific vacathio legis: as regards Article. 10 and Article 10 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 1). 15, they shall enter into force on the day following the date of publication. In publicism, in many media articles, especially on the Coast, in Gdańsk Pomerania, there is an allegation... that such an accelerated procedure in Parliament over a bill which amends the criminal procedure... An important argument, informal but appearing in the debate, is that in the case of proceedings concerning the property statements of President Gdansk, Paweł Adamowicz, is the date of the next hearing, and during a previous hearing, the Gdańsk Appeal Court did not take into account the application of the prosecutor's office, which wanted to supplement the material of the investigation into the property statements. And in the debate, there is often an argument that the prosecution has decided to make a spectacle of this and extend the proceedings to an endless extent, which has already ended with a judgment of the court. Can you address such allegations and arguments in the press? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u109	Thank you very much. Three questions each, Minister. Senator Piotr Zientarski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u110	Minister, on a question to the President, Professor Seweryński, about the possibility for the prosecutor to apply for a refund, whether once or repeatedly... Mr President clearly replied that it was not apparent from the bill that only once. On the other hand, you have just said that it is a once-in-a-lifetime possibility. [[Senator Mieczysław Augustyn: Where are the recipes?)]] What does that tell you? That's my first question. I'm gonna do another one in the next round. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u111	Thank you very much, Senator. And the third question. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, you're welcome. [[I'm quitting now, thank you very much.]] Excuse me? [[I'm giving up asking questions.]] Oh, you're resigning, senator. Then you're Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u112	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I will repeat the question that I have addressed to you, Professor Sewerinski, about the property statements of the judges. During the discussion... from the rapporteur's senator, Prof. Sewerinski's reply, I understood At least that's how I read it. That judges make statements of property only that they are unpublicised. I'd like you to confirm it, tell me if it's true. That's the first part of the question. And the second part of the question... I repeat my question as to who will decide the extent to which the statement will be kept secret, or whether the entire statement made by the judge will be kept secret. 'Cause it was raised here. In some cases it is probably justified The argument that, in the case of judges ruling in criminal proceedings, this issue may have consequences, far-reaching and serious. I would ask you to answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u113	Thank you very much. Minister, please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u114	Thank you very much. As far as the first question is concerned, I am unable to address this issue, I do not know at what stage the process concerning President Gdansk is at, I have no knowledge of this. Can this process be pursued indefinitely? No. The answer is no. The D.A. is six months old to supplement the indictment, first of all. Secondly, this concerns a one-time return of the case to the D.A., as I was saying... [[But under what regulations?]] ...and that's it. [[Where does it say in the bill, in what article?]] I'm going to the next question, because the next question is that. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 10, in item 1, we read that the mouth. One bill... which one? Laws of 10 June this year on the amendment of the law of. Code of Criminal Procedure, etc. Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1 of that Act, which entered into force on 5 August of this year, shall be replaced by the following: if, before the date of entry into force of this Act, the date of entry into force of this Act is 5 August 2016, the indictment file was referred to the court, the application for a conviction, the application for conditional remission or the request for remission of the protection proceedings, the material circumstances, the need to seek evidence or the need to carry out other proceedings have been revealed, the court shall, at the request of the prosecutor, refer the case to him in order to complete the investigation. So clearly the rule is made up of 2 elements. This is, as a rule, a premise and a conclusion, a hypothesis and a disposition of a recipe. If, in those cases which concerned the period until 5 August, the indictments have been referred and only in those cases, in any other case, the court shall refer the case to the prosecutor's request. It is clear from this that this does not apply to the repeated withdrawal of the case to the prosecutor. Why? For a simple reason. This is not possible here, for any case concluded with a new indictment will be a new case. This isn't about future affairs, it's gonna be a new case. That's why we're talking about one-off. This provision makes it clear that there is a once-in-a-lifetime situation. It's gonna be a new case, and it's not about new cases. This concerns a one-off, one-off withdrawal of the case to the D.A. As regards the third question, concerning the statement of property of judges, I answer that yes, today judges are obliged, Mr Senator, to make such statements, these statements go to the tax administration, tax offices, but unfortunately they are not verified in practice in any way. This was also pointed out by a group of experts from the Group of States Against GRECO Corruption, who noted that the system of verification of claims made at tax offices was inefficient. Nobody reads it. The party has no possibility, the citizen has no possibility of effectively submitting a request for access to these statements, in practice meets a laconic refusal, and it is therefore difficult to say that in practice there is a provision on the transparency of the statements. What's it gonna look like? In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 2 We point out that at the moment this information will be public information which will be published in the Public Information Bulletin and a copy of it will be transmitted to the tax office competent for the judge's whereabouts. Of course, there will be criminal liability for making a false statement. But we also provide for a special clause. If such circumstances could put the judge in danger, then it is possible for the Presidents of the courts to lay down such statements. Art. 2 also states that the information contained in the statement of assets constitutes a legally protected secret and is subject to the protection provided for the protection of classified information of the reserved clause, unless the person who made the declaration has given written consent to its disclosure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u115	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Marek Borowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u116	Thank you. With regard to the disclosure of statements, their possible secrecy, etc., it seems that there is also a provision which states that, although the President of the Court may secrete, the Minister of Justice may disclose. Right? Exactly. So the question is, on what basis will the Minister of Justice disclose? It seems to me like some kind of sanction because the president thought there was a threat, and the minister would say no, not a threat. There's something you need to decide about. This is the first case. Secondly, who will verify? Because the Minister said no one's read it so far. Now who's gonna read? Third: what's yours, i.e. Yours and your office, of course. The attitude to the amendment tabled by Senator Sewerinski? You know this amendment, I hope, and I don't have to quote it right now. And one last thing. You referred to the common law system, where... We have this adversarial system and the D.A. can withdraw... because he'd like to gather some new evidence and take a closer look at the case. My question is this: does this happen automatically at his request, or does the judge have to give his consent? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u117	Thank you very much. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska. [[I'm dropping the question because before that...]] Thank you. Senator Jan Filip Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I understand that the original purpose of the bill we are investigating was to prevent the length of the procedure. And that, of course, is a glorious and most appropriate goal, but at the committee meeting, the Minister said, in response to the amendments tabled and accepted by us, that you are interested in either everything or nothing, that is, that we should adopt the bill in the form that it came out of the Sejm. And my question is this: don't you see a contradiction between the initial fight against the long-term nature of the case and the fact that when we give the prosecutor the power to drop the case, the procedure will necessarily go into a long-term mode? Actually, it's this art. 10 is, so to speak, questioning what was the original purpose of the bill that we are proceeding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u119	Thank you very much. Senator Piotr Zientarski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u120	Minister, I repeat the question to which you referred me as President Seweryński, namely: what is the ratio of legis exclusion from the scope of legally protected secrecy, protected by the President of the Supreme Administrative Court or the first President of the Supreme Court? That's one question. The second question concerns claims of property. Don't you think it would be more effective to call, I don't know, outside the tax office... or introduce an obligation for judges to make statements, for example. To the Central Bureau of Corruption? They should not be exposed, especially to the hearses, to the disclosure of their assets or, as is often the case, to their difficult financial situation, e.g. loans, etc. Is this the case? The disclosure of loans isn't... Don't you think this causes more discomfort or tempts others to try to reach out to the judge? This is a psychological situation: it is in a difficult situation, and here in turn are great wealth, often inherited after many generations... Shouldn't criminal judges at least be excluded from making statements public in such a situation? And the level of real control of the authorities appointed to examine these statements should be increased.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u121	Thank you very much, Senator. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u122	Thank you very much. I answer the first question of why the Minister of Justice has the right to draw up a clause. Because of the check and balance rule, so it's not like all the power will be put back into the hands of the judge's corporation... As a rule, everything needs to be changed so that nothing changes. And nothing's gonna change, because these statements are still gonna be categorized, once they're considered... The Senate will say I'm a pessimist and that it's a conspiracy theory of history. That's not true! That's not true. Examples of the practices we've dealt with show that if we create certain possibilities, they're very easily abused, that's why... There is a dualism of two parties, on the one hand the President of the Court and on the other hand the Minister of Justice. The Minister of Justice in such a situation will, of course, be guided by public good. And he has the right to look at the issue of disclosure of these statements other than the President of the Court. It's not a matter of case law. The Minister of Justice, who exercises administrative authority over the courts, does not enter the area of case law in this case. The Constitution in no place prohibits the Minister of Justice from running administrative courts. There is no interference in the case law, in independence, freedom of judgment. This is merely a verification of whether the claims should be classified or disclosed. That's all. As for the next question, who's gonna read it, if you don't read it in the IRS today... Well, citizens. [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]] Citizens have a right to know. According to Art. The 4th constitution is a nation's sovereign power. According to Art. 174 courts exercise power on behalf of citizens. Therefore, citizens have a right to know. Just as they have access to the statements of property of the two authorities, the first and the second, they have the right to know the declarations of property of the third authority. The third power is not the first power, it is not the superior authority, it is the third power, equal to the other authorities, but it is not superior to the other two authorities. The nation's sovereignty is exercised by the people. [[Sovereign.]] Sovereign, yes, sir. The next question concerned the relation to the amendment of Professor Senator Sewerinski. As far as our bill is concerned, it is planned for the entire course of the proceedings. And whether it's at first instance or second instance... The senator's amendment seeks to limit the possibility of returning the case to the prosecutor only by first instance. We believe that this is an unreasonable restriction on the prosecutor's ability to react to these cases, because some cases are already in the courts of appeal, so we would introduce an unequal division here. Why should we look at matters in the courts of appeal differently from those of first instance? Of course, I understand the opposite arguments, and we take the view that this should apply to two instances, i.e. in general cases before the validation. There may also be cases in appeal proceedings, especially since we should remember what this appeal procedure looks like today; it is often a de facto duplication of first-instance evidentiary proceedings. As long as we once had a system in which the courts of appeal only repealed and passed on... We used to have more casatoriality, and today we have so-called greater reformality, i.e. the courts of appeals are conducting evidence proceedings. And when can they cancel? Only if there are so-called absolute grounds for appeal or if the evidence needs to be reopened in its entirety. Well, they can't drive completely, but they can already drive and drive a lot. Therefore, we believe that this should also apply to secondary matters. The next question was whether, in other countries that I have given here, there is a situation where the prosecutor decides without the consent of the court. As I said, the nolle prosequi system is characteristic of the common law system, and this involves a specific understanding of the author of the complaint. 'Cause who's the D.A.? He's the author of the complaint. If it weren't for the D.A., if it wasn't for the executive power, there wouldn't be a case in court at all. So he initiates the case, he's the stimulus, he's the inventor and architect of the case. It goes to court, yes, but the court doesn't have to be the master of this case or it doesn't have to be its sole master at the moment, because at some point the king, the ruler, can say: nolle prosequi, I'm not chasing, I want to verify and return... [[Voice from the courtroom: Without the court's permission...]] Without the court's permission, yes, sir. And there's no court permission for this kind of... That's the last word of the prosecutor. That's the rule. But for the sake of scientific integrity, I must also say that there are cases that the court's consent is, yes, but that's when the case is in a particular situation. It's before district court, it's a crime case. That's the way it is in Britain. And as far as Canada and Australia are concerned, that's where the prosecutor's request is sufficient. So that this initiative is interesting, but let me tell you honestly, by the end of this thread, I think we need to think absolutely about a certain axiology of the system. The prosecutor is the author of the complaint, he filed a complaint and has at some point the right to verify this complaint, of course with full guarantees to the citizen. With us, these guarantees are. In what form? There is a deadline of 6 months, the possibility of a single refund and the bill is an episode. So it's a one-time thing... and the bill's an episode. We absolutely do not introduce such solutions for the future. And as for returning the appeal case to the D.A., that's the situation that's already happened. Yes, with the court's permission... here the court's consent was decisive. But it worked in 1969 and 1997 and 2003. The courts of appeal could refer the case to the prosecutor when they considered the case to be incomplete and thus overturned the judgment of the court of first instance. This was already the case in 2003, but it was a court... [[But in court...]] Yes, sir. Preventing the chronicity of proceedings on the one hand and, on the other hand, causing this chronicity, i.e. contradiction in the law. As I have already stated, there is no such contradiction, there is a preserved balance, there is a balance between efficiency and efficiency and material truth and justice. Reforms cannot be made in the justice system only in the name of speed. Justice must also be kept in mind, an appropriate penalty, a material truth. These 3 principles are at the heart of our recipe, I repeat: an episode. As regards the President of the Supreme Court and the NSA, Article. 2 point 2 indicates... They're covered, too. The presidents of SN and NSA are covered. And that applies accordingly. The record states that the information contained in the statement of assets made by the President of the NSA or the first President of the Supreme Court shall be public, including as regards the name, except for the address details, information on the location of the property, as well as information enabling the identification of the movable property of the judge; at the request of the judge, the person receiving the statement may decide to include the information under the reserved clause. So that this applies accordingly. [[I'm talking about lips. Article 1 2.]] Aha, the information contained in the statement of assets, with the exception of the declaration... constitutes a legally protected secret and shall be subject to the protection provided for classified information of a classified clause, strictly classified. Well, point 2 applies accordingly to this situation, there is no difference here. The same applies to the President of the NSA and the Supreme Court. On the same basis, the presidents of the NSA and the SN shall be protected as are the other judges. [[But I asked why there was an exception.]] [[But this, Mr. Senator, is to be a question and an answer. This isn't a discussion. You can ask the senator a second question. You're welcome. That's it?]] And CBA, Mr. Marshal. One last question: why not CBA? [[Uh-huh.]] Because of what I said: Social control is the best control.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u123	Thank you, Minister. Senator Władysław Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u124	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, aren't you afraid that the imposition of financial penalties on judges will be politicized? It could affect their objectivity in handling cases. There could be political processes. It's enough for the judge to be reprimanded, and for five years he won't be able to serve as President of the court. And we know who's putting those punishments today. And one last question. Minister, why does the amendment deprive the parties of their right to lodge a complaint? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u125	Thank you very much, Senator. The next question you ask is Senator Marek Pak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. You, Minister, have already partially answered the question I wanted to ask, but I will return to it. It's about disclosure of property claims. I have a fundamental problem understanding this separation of jurisdiction. Why should judicial authority not be covered by the principle of transparency? How does this relate to the general principle of equality vis-à-vis the law and, in particular, equality vis-à-vis the law of all public authorities? The judicial authority is also the authority. Power is also exercised within the judicial system. Shouldn't we think about it in the long run? This was mentioned at the committee meeting yesterday. In order to introduce one transparent, transparent model of a statement of property for all persons holding public authority. It is often said that judges make individual decisions, but the same can be said for example. about representatives of local government. They're also very well-known people in their environment. Everyone knows where they live, everybody knows what cases they're in. Their decisions concern specific people, so they can also be blackmailed and they can be dealt with in various ways. I don't know why judges are such a special group here. How would you relate to that? What are the arguments of the members of the judicial community for so terribly defending the confidentiality status of their statements? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u127	Thank you. Senator Jan Libicki, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u128	Minister, you have only partially answered my question, that is, you described the ratio of the Ministry to the amendment by Prof. Sewerinski. And my question was also part two. Don't you think that if the bill passes in the form you imagine it will increase the length of the procedure? That's the first question, an addition to what you said. The second question is the following. In the case of this project, we are dealing with a wide range of disciplinary penalties. I'm not talking about property statements here, because there may be different opinions about this. We make such statements in a clear way, but we do not face organized criminal groups permanently. The judges are often in such a situation. But the question is different: what was the purpose of tightening up all these disciplinary measures? What were your reasons for this? So far, we're not hearing much about these conditions, and it looks like it's about discipline of the environment itself. But maybe there are reasons, reasons that are at the root of your action. I'd really like to ask for their show. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u129	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u130	Thank you very much. The first question concerned the imposition of financial penalties on judges. I would just like to remind you that such financial penalties were already planned and, moreover, adopted in a project prepared in the previous term. The Civic Platform and PSL project provided for the introduction of property penalties for judges. We've taken over, but we've raised the ceiling of 15%. Up to 20%. The previous legislature predicted 15% And we've introduced 20%. It's a good idea. Thank you so much for the idea. The senator nods his head, shows he's a big fan of the idea. I really like this solution. This is absolutely necessary. Moreover, High Senate, we ensure compliance with the records for other professional groups. I would like to make this clear. The Labour Code already provides for a financial penalty for the employee 109 of the Labour Code. In the Civil Service Act, we already have a financial penalty for a civil servant today. There's nothing else here that the other professional groups don't have. As regards the absence of a complaint That was the second question. This is for a simple reason, namely the prosecutor is the investigator and the prosecutor is responsible for the indictment. The prosecutor is an architect, the author of the complaint. He's the author of the complaint, he's responsible for the success of this complaint. He'll be cleared for the complaint, not the parties. He's responsible for the rule of law, for the justice system. And the role of the other party, the accused, is, as it is even said directly in science, to multiply such doubts in order to avoid punishment. The defendant doesn't have to give real explanations, he has the right to give the most fancy versions of events, events, he has no right to pursue material truth, the defender is not part of the justice system, he is in no way a participant in the justice system... [[And the court?]] ...so he's the defendant's helper. The court in this case is bound and should be bound by the prosecutor's request, because the court is on trial and not on questioning whether the indictment is properly constructed in this case, because the prosecutor is responsible for this. The D.A. is an investigator. The D.A. is responsible for... According to Art. 145 of the Constitution The Council of Ministers is responsible for appropriate criminal policy. The Council of Ministers, the executive authority, is responsible for criminal policy. Therefore, in this case, in the name of criminal policy for a certain period of time, I repeat: in an accident way, the court should be bound by the prosecutor's request. And the lack of complaint is as consistent as possible. Senator Marek Pęk asked a question about the quality of the statements of property, why the judicial authority should be removed from the parenthesis, since two authorities are already making statements of property. After all, it's about people known absolutely yes. I'm just going to repeat the words of the judge the cellar, who in one of the interviews said that she wasn't afraid of property claims. Everyone knows her in the town where she lives, knows what kind of car she drives, knows where she lives. It is something elementary: privileges, rights, but also responsibility, symmetry of powers and duties, symmetry of privileges and obligations towards society. Judge Cellar reads her duties very well, very well reading her role in society. And absolutely a third power cannot be taken outside the parentheses of the other two authorities. I am immediately referring to the second question of Senator Libicki, the question of the fact that they are known persons. After all, if someone drives a very good car, lives in a good house, it is known, it is not unusual in a given community. This is not the man to hide under a cork that can hide under a cork, hide from society. It's something commonly known. The other two authorities, legislative and executive, have an impact on state policy. They're the state, they're the law, you're the law. There's been a charge that judges are dealing with criminals, dealing with cases that might affect their safety. I'll tell you more: you're more vulnerable. And if not more, certainly comparable It's more than those judges. You state the law, you state the fate of this legal system, the fate of our country, the fate of the whole state is in your hands. Therefore, you are exposed to all kinds of dangers on an equal footing with judges. There's nothing weird here. It's hard to outbid who's more vulnerable than who's less vulnerable. Three authorities, three constitutional authorities equally... And I agree with the senator that as far as representatives of the local government are concerned, i.e. the power separated from those three authorities, the local government, just the one closest to the citizen... Paradoxically, under specific circumstances, this power can be exposed, perhaps even the most, to corrupt temptations. And it may be worthwhile to actually rethink this kind of system solution also for other professional groups, but, as I said yesterday at the committee meeting, this is no longer the ministry's jurisdiction. And as far as axiology is concerned, absolutely, Senator, I agree. As for the disciplinary measures that you have been asking Senator Libicki about, if this isn't an expression of some kind of stalking, prejudice, I'll say yes. In 2008, when I was an assistant to the Ombudsman Janusz Kochanowski, we sent a letter to the President of the National Judicial Council, in which Kochanowski pointed out that his far-reaching concern was the situation in which a large number of disciplinary cases against judges were terminated because of the legal mechanisms that gave them the opportunity to escape into this impunity. What was that all about? On the fact that the judicial authority that judges were the only group of officials in our country had a rule They've got him to this day; we're gonna take him out. In other words, the possibility of a judge being punished for three years has elapsed since the act. This was not the case for any other group of officials. Only in the case of judges. I repeat: if three years have passed since the act was committed, there is no penalty. Yes, you can proceed, but you can't judge punishment. No other professional group had that. The question is why. Today we extend the limitation period 5 to 8 years old. This is an answer to the needs of practice. Nearly 25% of the cases... Last year we had about 50 disciplinary cases in the courts, of which almost 25% ended with acquittal or remission. Let me just remind you that on the basis of the law introduced in 1999 concerning disciplinary actions against judges who before 1989 disgraced the judge's office, only 1 judge, High Izbo, has... suffered disciplinary responsibility. Only 1 judge in 2007, just before the limitation period expires. Only 1 judge was held liable in this mode This was the case with the settlement of free Poland with the previous system. Nothing to add, nothing to say. Most of these cases have expired, they've been conducted so that they'll never end. It's sad, but today, 25 years after independence, we're introducing a recipe to prevent it. The question concerned other professional groups related to the application of the law. Let me just say that we are planning to introduce similar solutions when it comes to notaries. I, as directly responsible in the department for disciplinary proceedings of notaries, see the chronic problem that notaries have with judging themselves. We want to counter this and we already have a project to extend the limitation periods as much as for judges. From 5 to 8 years, not 1 year to 3 years... So that we follow some general thought. It cannot be that blamed persons who have violated the dignity of the judge's office, notary or other public trust office have a certain clause on impunity, have certain immunity only because they use certain legal tricks that they are able to laugh at justice and various methods, unclean, dishonest, to ensure impunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u131	Thank you very much, Minister. And another question. Senator Marek Borowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u132	Thank you very much. Minister, I will continue with the topic of transparency of the statements, but not because I have some fundamental comments about this disclosure, but... Although, as you refer to the Scandinavian countries, especially Sweden, it must be said that this disclosure is limited in a specific way. That is, any citizen on the street may enter and request data on the property status of public officials provided that it demonstrates a legal interest. So it's not like it's on the website somewhere, and everybody's reading it. So that's... When we refer to Scandinavian examples, we have to do this exactly. But here's the thing: if a judge can ask for a secret statement, because it could be a threat to him, then, as I understand it, he does it at some point, but his previous statements have already been printed and are known. Right? So because it's hard to predict in advance when something like this is going to happen, it's actually kind of fictional. Because if someone for any reason wants to find out what he has, what he has, he's going to find out from previous statements. So it's either assumed that the criminal judges are at risk and yet another option applies, or it's a pretty fictitious regulation, I'll be honest with you. The Minister to my question, who will read, answered that citizens. I would like to say that when it comes to our statements, they are read by the ethics committee; she is the one who checks it out, she has the most opportunity to make comparisons and take action. However, in the case of judges, instead of making sure that these statements are read by some truly competent external body, we leave it to the citizens, not necessarily by the judges themselves. In my opinion, this situation is worse than what it has been so far. That's one thing. As for the question of Senator Sewerinski's amendment, I must say that the Minister upset me because I thought there was some reflection here. You yourself admitted that even if there was an institution in the Polish People's Republic such as withdrawal at the second instance, it was done with the permission of the court. If the D.A. wants to provide additional evidence, he has the opportunity at second instance to present this evidence, and if he wants to give up the prosecution, as you said, he may give up the prosecution. I would like to say that Prof. Sewerinski's amendment was very important to this law. It was very important to me, too, when it comes to voting on this bill... [[But that's an opinion, Mr. Senator, sorry, we're asking a question.]] I understand, but... [[At this point, you're giving your opinion, and that's the time later when there's a discussion. Now is the time for questions.]] The question is this: did the Minister just say that, as I say, the opinion, or is that the Ministry's firm objection to this amendment?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u133	Good. Now Senator Barbara Zdrojewska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u134	Thank you very much. Following the estate statements... The Minister said something that was insane to me, namely that the officials of the tax institutions do not read the property statements. I've been paying attention to this. This is the basis of our system. That these statements and ours and others lie and are indeed disclosed in these institutions. It's not a jury thing, but... when I hear a government rep's voice... You make such an opinion after a year of governing that officials don't read property statements, and I would like to know on what basis you feel that way. What makes you say that? Did you gain any knowledge, e.g. From Prime Minister Morawiecki? Did Prime Minister Morawiecki complain that the officials did not read the statements? Or did he do something about it? What's it look like right now? Why, after a year of PiS government, officials still don't read statements, because I understand... Are they reading now? And I would like to point out that all these statements of the judges have already been read. And the second question about... We all know that it is important to compare statements, compare with previous years, etc. Because I was the president of the city council or the Seym for many years, I had to check out the property statements, and I know pretty well what it is. These statements are best checked by comparing them, and the ordinary citizen, as these statements hang on some sites, is unable to do so because he cannot find previous statements, etc. That's what people are supposed to know about it. [[But I appeal, Senator, about...]] It's the IRS. And I'd like to... [[Question. I'm asking you a question. Okay?]] ... One question I asked... [[Asking a question may take a minute.]] And the second question is, why not... [[That's a question. Yes.]] ...you went this way, you only chose the worst version, which is the publication of property statements. And I don't understand why you think that's the way it's going to contribute to the fact that corruption or something like that is going to be revealed. And tell me how many cases of corruption have so far been found among judges and cases that have been initiated on the basis of statements of property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u135	Thank you, Senator. Senator Piotr Zientarski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u136	Minister, I'm going back to the article. 10. Do you not think that on the one hand you have put forward the right policy of second instance, which conducts evidence proceedings and not just repeals them, and on the other hand you think that the entire article Along with the decision of the Minister of Justice, the Attorney General, who has the ability to directly influence every prosecutor's decision to quash a court ruling... they prefer the Minister of Justice. Do you consider this solution appropriate? Isn't that a vote of distrust for courts that have opportunities like you? is this rightly emphasised, also at the second instance, by conducting evidence proceedings? And you're assuming that this kind of evidence will not carry out that they won't take into account the prosecution's conclusions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u137	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u138	Thank you very much. The first question was, who's gonna check it out, why the IRS don't do it, and what do I get my knowledge from? As I said before: on the basis of the report of the Anti-Corruption States Group. GRECO Group experts said that Poland has a problem with this. It wasn't the year we ruled, it was before. However, there are few tax officials posted to these activities. What's more, there are situations that, when it comes to comparing... Comparison is often not an appropriate means or method. It is necessary to compare not what was this year with what was last year, but what is this year with what the judge actually has. That's what this is all about. If we compare it to the previous year, it's going to work out, but we get the best result by comparing it to the actual state of possession. Who's got those instruments? Citizens who see a new car who see a new villa. So that absolutely... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...I repeat once again, social control by citizens, on behalf of whom the judges have the third power, is the most transparent, adequate and legitimate. As to the question of cases of corruption found on the basis of claims of property... Corruption is a kind of activity that requires, as I said, a reaction to a faraway precipice of it, which is much earlier. Prevention is the most important thing. Prevention and prevention. Creating mechanisms in a country that would prevent and discourage corruption Whether this corruption is a third sector or a fourth sector. There are various forms and forms of corruption. Therefore, in this case it is not justified, necessary, or even necessary to indicate a specific situation, the percentage of cases of 10%, 2%, 3 cases, 10 cases per year, which were the result of the verification of claims of property... It's not important. If that's the case, it's just the D.A.'s office based on their internal information, and maybe the police know, they have that information... But it's absolutely not valid for the law-makers. We create abstract and general standards, preventing pathological situations and countering certain situations... [[Not knowing if they exist.]] ...which can happen, and that's it. What difference would it make if it were two situations? What if it wasn't two situations and four situations? Or one, not five? [[Or zero.]] If there was one, wouldn't we do it, and if there were five, would we do it? We can move numbers. The numbers don't matter, it's about values. It's about values. So I'm gonna turn the question around. How many cases have there been in the last dozen years of corruption found among Members, Senators, Ministers, Vice-ministers, executive representatives, on the basis of statements of property? Well, no one's running these statistics, but it's obvious to everyone: statements should be made public to every citizen in this country. And the last question asked by Senator Zientarski was the possibility for the Attorney General to revoke the judgment of the court. The repeal of the judgment of the Court of First Instance is merely the result of the return of the case to preliminary proceedings. [[But there's a sentence.]] This is a technical necessity, the outcome of this process, the return of the case to the preliminary investigation. And in this case, there's no way that this is the Attorney General's own will, by force, he's relinquishing those sentences. The judgment shall be revoked when the case is returned to the preliminary proceedings because it becomes unobtrusive. [[That's clear, that's right...]] On the other hand, the case will be properly prepared, accurate and the author of the complaint, which is the prosecutor, will decide on the continuation of the proceedings, and that is all. If there wasn't a prosecutor, there wouldn't be a complaint, there wouldn't be a case, there wouldn't be a court order, there wouldn't be a case at all. He's the architect of the case, he's the initiator of this procedure. And I stress what I said, that's what the prosecutor is doing to properly prepare the evidence. Why not the court to which the prosecutor may request specific, specific evidence? Because the court is not from investigating and investigating the strict sense. It's not from investigating and investigating, from testing, tracking, searching. It's from carrying out evidence, usually witness evidence, that's the main evidence in court proceedings. But as far as all criminal activities are concerned, that's generally what I'm going to call it, because the court isn't for that. That's what the D.A.'s for. Criminality is the role of prosecutor. Investigation and investigation activities. evidence of search activities are the role of the prosecutor, experiment, inspection, etc., etc. This is reserved for the prosecutor. And therefore, by all means, the prosecutor should be able to do so. I repeat: for a particular circumstance, a particular category of cases, closed cases A once-in-a-lifetime opportunity, not for the future, but for cases that are already in the courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u139	Thank you very much, Minister. Next Question Time. You're starting with Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u140	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am wholeheartedly in favour of adopting this law, but in a version with those amendments that the committees have proposed. I have two doubts, and I would ask you to dispel them. The first concerns Article. 6. Such a strange provision is added to the proposed amendment of the first one: The provisions of the Act shall apply in accordance with the standards resulting from the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The question is: what is this recipe for? It's a rubber recipe. Well, please note that this will also be applied next door, I would call it criminal proceedings, where there should be clarity of the rule, precision... Are you even familiar with court proceedings of this kind? Has there ever been legislation of this kind in our legislation before, that is, some kind of intentional, deliberate... I don't know how else to put it. The second question concerns Article. 7, changing the law about the D.A.'s office. Here in item 1 is the proposal. We haven't talked about this yet. In order to enable designated prosecutors, national prosecutors or general prosecutors to provide information on the activities of the prosecution, but also on specific cases... This possibility existed before, because with cumulative safety features... It was information relevant to the security of the State and its proper functioning. At the moment, there is no consistency here, only the word "or." I am therefore following a significant extension of the scope of this case. Aren't you afraid that this is going to happen, I'd call it... maybe not any, but just a significant extension of a group of this kind of information, which in turn may cause, so to speak, the leaking of them outside the justice system, outside the prosecutor's office?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u141	Thank you very much, Senator. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! There'll be a break in four minutes. Senator Rotnicka also has a question, but maybe... Good. Senator Rotnicka and Senator Florek will ask their questions, and the answers will be after the break. In such a situation the break will last until 2.45 p.m. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u142	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a quick question. Dear Minister, I am surprised by these different deadlines for the implementation of this law. Its date of entry into force is short, because it is 14 days from the date of the announcement, but... in item 1 of the article. 16 is a different date for Article. 9 is the later date ... and in point 2 is referred to Under optimal conditions it will be 19 or even 20 November. Wouldn't it make more sense to write that all the rules will come into force after 14 days? Because that is the presumption that there is something special about these articles, since they are to be implemented so quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u143	Thank you very much. Senator Florek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u144	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I wanted to continue with the first question about these property claims, because based on my experience, which I have in checking... But I'm gonna quit on time. But I have a question. In the report of the committee is amendment No 2, according to which Article. Point 6 (5) (a) in the mouth. 4 words not less than 500 PLN for each year are replaced by words not less than 1 thousand PLN for each year. Minister, there was 500 PLN in the government's submission. I'd like to know what it's coming from. [[There was a thousand...]] The amendment speaks of PLN 1 000 and we will vote on this amendment. I'd like the Minister to explain this matter to me.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u145	Thank you very much, Senator. Minister, you have two minutes to answer all your questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u146	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator Czerwiński's first question was whether there was no concern that information on the prosecution's activities, including information on specific matters relevant to the security of the State or its proper functioning, would be unduly disclosed. There isn't, because the Attorney General or prosecutors who reveal this kind of information... They are responsible for this, of course, on the basis of this provision, but let us bear in mind that we still have criminal laws on the protection of professional secrecy, professional secrecy, secret clauses, strictly secret, reserved, confidential. There's a whole system of categorisation, secrecy. It's just a piece. We're expanding it. It's a full agreement here, Mr. Senator. In the name of transparency and in the name of the right of access to certain information. These provisions should not in any way be read by themselves, they must be read in the context of all other provisions relating to disclosure of professional, professional, proprietary or confidential information. So that absolutely nothing changes in this respect. As for the senator's question, this is where we're dealing with... Why does not the entire bill enter into force after 14 days from the day of the announcement? Because the issue of returning the case to the prosecutor... the cases that are already in the courts, they're taking place in the counter-disciplinary model should be looking forward to, let's call it, reaction. Therefore, there is no time for delay. And the question asked by Senator Flork: 500 PLN or 1 thousand PLN? The European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg did not indicate what specific amount should be decided in this case. We believe that 500 PLN is an adequate amount. The amount of PLN 1 thousand was selected in only 3 cases per 600 all. This should be emphasised: in three specific cases, the European Court of Human Rights said that in its view it would be adequate to compensate PLN 1 000 per year. Nevertheless, I stress that the Court has ruled this without taking into account our other provisions. As far as fragmentation is concerned, we're done. We make such indications that the court will have to go beyond these 500 zlotys if the defendant himself did not contribute to the length of the proceedings. In such cases, the courts will rule more, but this 500 PLN is a necessary minimum when the defendant himself contributed to this. Hence, more cases and considerations will be taken into account here. The amount of PLN 1 000 would be unnecessary to move forward, because we would thus introduce solutions which the Court does not require of us. As far as Senator Czerwinski's question is concerned, it concerned the provision of the article. Article 6 (6) (a) 3. What's the recipe for? That's why. I was just talking about it. In order for the courts, taking into account the standards laid down in the European Convention on Human Rights, to rule on these compensations fairly and adequately. Does the Polish system contain such provisions? Yes, it contains, e.g. There is a provision in the Code of Criminal Procedure which states that measures of procedural coercion should be applied in a manner that ensures human dignity. It's a directional rule, and I'd even say, "Ideological." But it's necessary. It is precisely in order for every policeman or other public servant to take into account the dignity of man in applying such laws. [[And the reference to the convention, to international law in our criminal law?]] I answer the question, Mr Senator: the reference to the Convention is fully aware and necessary for the implementation of the pilot judgment in the Rutkowski case against Poland, the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, in which the Court informed the Polish party that there is a problem with judging damages for chronic processes and that the courts do not take into account the case law of the European Court of Human Rights. The European Court of Human Rights is acting on the basis of the Convention which we are bound by, and therefore we are fully aware of this Convention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u147	Minister, thank you very much. There are also senators enrolled to ask questions, so that I announce a recess until 2.45 p.m. today. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Marcin Warchoł: Thank you very much.]] [[Adjournment from 13 minutes 48 to 14 minutes 48]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u148	I'm reopening the session. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. We return to the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on the system of common courts and certain other laws. Questions are currently underway for the Government representative on the agenda item under discussion. Senator Zdrojewska's question, please. Come on in, Minister. [[No, I'm dropping the question.]] You're welcome, Minister. Is the senator dropping the question? [[Yes.]] Anyone else... Would any of you like to ask questions? Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. You're welcome. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u149	Minister, you have stated that this main part of the bill, concerning claims of property... not claims of property, but the length of proceedings is to be introduced by the middle of the following year, because according to the human rights tribunal... So I'm asking what happened... Oh, and the bill that we're running right now was supposed to be processed in two weeks. Tell me what happened, sir, that you asked the Senate marshal to proceed with this bill two weeks earlier, which is this sitting. What happened? I, of course, set this up in a certain arrangement related to previous questions and art. 10. There will be no vacathio legis here, which means immediately after signing it comes into force. You've speeded up a lot here. What were the reasons for this acceleration?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u150	Thank you very much. Would any of you like to ask the Minister a question? I don't see any volunteers. Please answer me, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u151	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To answer the question, I must, of course, refer to what I was talking about earlier, namely, what is the purpose. This is what we have in common with the purpose of introducing the article. 10, no vacathio legis and my request to your marshal to speed things up. These three elements show that things cannot wait, and the amendment by Prof. Sewerinski is kind of a continuation here. There's a discussion going on, it's between We have a difference of opinion as to whether this should include primary or secondary matters. Every day is priceless, every week is priceless... [[Whose fault is that?]] Cases are pending, convictions are being handed down. Unfinished business, unprepared... Unrelentingly and recklessly prepared indictments are a threat to justice and material truth. Therefore, these three issues are important: the first speeding up of work; the second lack of vacathio legis; the third episode of the rule. The Professor's amendment only proves that... he's going to take out the second-instant cases. Therefore, we try to capture as many cases as possible. If the Professor's amendment passes, we will be deprived of the possibility of appeal proceedings. In this situation, pre-existing cases are relevant. There's nothing to wait for. These cases are in court today. The courts are court-martialing, making judgments. I repeat, there's nothing to wait for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u152	Senator Rotnicka's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u153	Minister, you are introducing some sort of element of concern here and say that there are a lot of urgent matters to be dealt with. Can you tell me what these cases are about? [[Some examples.]] Please give some examples. Is this, say, a threat to our country's defence? I don't know what kind of threat it could cause us not to last two weeks. Perhaps you'd be kind to tell us that.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u154	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u155	Thank you very much. I'd have to investigate, Senator, almost a few hundred cases. If we don't count them in thousands. I'm looking at your judge and your principal now. There are probably thousands of cases which have been brought in an adversarial model from 1 July 2015 to 15 April 2016. I think you can count these cases in thousands. Here it is the same as the question about corruption: how many corruption cases are the result of property claims? I don't know. And I shouldn't even know that. I'm presenting a bill that introduces a model that solves a system problem. We're talking about values, we're not talking about numbers, we're talking about numbers. We're talking about values. The same is true here: we argue about values, we argue whether the state should tolerate a situation in which there is a threat to justice and the rule of law, to the fundamental principles of criminal proceedings. Let me remind you that the fathers of the so-called reform. counter-discipline or, as some people want, mixed model, said that in the first period of the reform there would be up to 30% acquittal. High Izbo, even 30% acquittal. That's why we have to act. In the name of value, this law should be passed as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u156	Thank you very much. Thank you, Minister. I'm opening a discussion... [[More, more.]] I asked, Mr. Marshal, if anyone wants to speak. Okay, here you go. [[I want to ask you a question. We haven't finished the questions yet.]] Good. I'd like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u157	Minister, there is a difference of opinion between you and the Senator... [[Good.]] ...on whether or not in connection with the article. 10 is the possibility of returning the case to the D.A.'s office, returning the case repeatedly to the D.A.'s office. You said it wasn't possible. The President in his report said that this possibility exists, and I am therefore asking you this question. There are doubts, or at least I have doubts, because you haven't made a rule that clearly regulates it. That rule you quoted is a rule that can be interpreted differently. I interpret it so that it's possible. Do you not therefore believe that this issue needs to be clarified in the form of an amendment? [[Mr. Marshal, ad vocem.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u158	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u159	I would like to say, Mr Marshal, that there is no longer any controversy between us, because the Minister has presented an interpretation which I believe is possible under this provision. And therefore, my reservations are unfounded.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u160	Good. Senator, I understand there is no controversy between you two, but there is a controversy between me and the Minister. And I'd like an answer. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[He's not gonna stop asking questions.]] And that's one question. There's another one. Please tell me whether such a solution is to be applied only in criminal proceedings, only in criminal cases. I don't know about that. I don't know about that. I am not a lawyer, and I would like to know whether this procedure should be limited only to criminal matters, whether it will be extended to other matters, for example. economic.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u161	Thank you very much. In my opinion, the answer to the first question has already been answered, but please, Minister, to respond to the first question and to the second question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u162	Thank you very much. The controversy between me and the professor has already been clarified, as the professor pointed out, but in answer to the Marshal's question, I can say that this is clear from this provision and from the proper application of the article. 344a §1 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which states that the court shall refer the case to the prosecutor in order to complete an investigation or investigation if the case file indicates significant deficiencies in the proceedings, in particular the need to seek evidence, and that the necessary action by the court would cause considerable difficulties. If the case goes to the D.A., then the life of the case ends, this case dies. Any case that goes back through the D.A.'s office will be a new case. Since this will be a new case, this law will not apply to it, as this law only applies to indictments and cases brought before the court by August of this year. A well-established case law under Article. 344a and practice clearly indicate that if we take the case back to the prosecutor, the life of the case ends. If the D.A. has re-prepared the case, we're already talking about a new case. Therefore, it is simply impossible for legal reasons to make such a request repeatedly, to withdraw it and re-submit it. And the second question was whether this solution was only for criminal matters. Yeah, just criminal cases. It will not concern any other category of cases. To this case, which was brought before the courts by August of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u163	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Borowski. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u164	Thank you very much. Minister, I'm going to go back to this last case, which is that phrase. I understand that there may be a situation that, due to the wrong preparation of the prosecutor, previously, in the context of this adversarial procedure, the defendant will be acquitted. There is such a threat, even though it appears that prosecution proceedings have been carried out negligently. And it's just gonna be socially unfair. Right? 'Cause that's what this is about. It's not that the D.A. is trying to acquit the defendant, it's the other way around. And now we've got a situation where the defendant responds at his own discretion, but he may be arrested, temporarily arrested. Right? The arrest is renewed, he's under arrest throughout the trial, and the prosecutor's intent is to convict him, even though there's insufficient evidence. So he's pulling the case, and six months, so to speak, he's picking. In this case we are dealing with harassment of the accused, and in the past we have seen such cases. Can't you see... How can we counteract such fear? I'll tell you what it's supposed to look like. However, the court should give its consent. In a situation where the D.A. has full authority in this area, we'll also have the cases I've been talking about here. This is case one. Case number two. Because the Minister said that everyone should be treated evenly. I would like to know whether the Ministry also provides for an amendment of a law which allows ministers who are not Members and Senators not to disclose declarations and only to disclose them when they wish. That's the second question. And the third question. Are these statements of property also intended to apply to military and administrative judges, or only to general court judges? If it turned out that it wasn't, then why didn't it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u165	Thank you very much. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u166	Minister, tell me what the Supreme Court and the National Judicial Council's opinions were about this law, if they were and what they were about. Mr President has referred you to this matter, so I hope to find out.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u167	Thank you very much. Senator Zientarski. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u168	Minister, do you believe that during the period when the act of adversariality was in force, the prosecutors filed indictments without evidence? I'm asking 'cause I'm getting this impression. Please escort me out... I have the impression that we are dealing with a different prosecution, a completely different situation, while during this period the prosecutor general was the Minister of Justice, who is still the Attorney General, and I believe he had enough time to review these so-called. failure or simplified acts of indictment to be completed in the normal procedure, in the procedural procedure, i.e. in the procedure of filing supporting claims due to the new circumstances which arise.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u169	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u170	Thank you very much. To answer Senator Borowski's first question, is this also about matters concerning... Is it planned to change the law for vice-ministers who are not MEPs to allow vice-ministers who are not MEPs? Please correct me, Mr. Senator, not to make statements? Is that right? It's not planned. But why would there be such a change? They're part of... I'm an example of this person. I am not a Member, I am a Vice Minister, I think I should make a declaration of property, citizens have the right to know what I have, what I don't have, why I have it, and I have nothing to hide, I am part of the executive authority. With full awareness, taking this function, I took responsibility, and all this, I can't run away from it, saying suddenly that I'm half government representative, and half not as far as privileges are concerned, yes, and as far as responsibilities are concerned, No, no, no, no, With full awareness. And absolutely something like that shouldn't even be procedated. Why should vice-ministers who are not messengers be holy cows? [[Firstly, ministers, and secondly, they don't have to, and that's the point.]] [[They don't have to, exactly.]] [[That's the thing. They don't have to.]] So I understand, I'm looking at the principal's friend right now... These voices show that those who are not Members may abstain... Yes? If that's the change, then I don't think this change is consistent with the axiology I'm talking about here. If they're part of the executive power, they should be as much as they should be, as they are all. And it's... [[But my point is whether or not you're gonna take care of it.]] Will we take care of it? [[Yes.]] I don't see the problem of taking care of it. [[Then let's wait.]] Another question, sir, if you don't mind. [[Yeah, yeah, please, we're just running out of the bill.]] As regards the next question, it concerned military judges, administrative and general courts. The judges of the general courts are covered by the law, the judges of military courts are also covered by the law, and the judges of the administrative courts, even though this is not our jurisdiction De facto, the administrative courts are not subject to the Minister of Justice The law also applies. The jurisdiction of the Minister of Justice, our department, no longer extends strictly to administrative courts, but this law also applies to them. As for the opinion of the Supreme Court and the National Court of Justice, the opinion was submitted by the Supreme Court, partly negative, and the National Court of Justice indicated that... Of course, there has been a duplication of what the honourable senator and senators have already spoken of here. The reservations concerned the return of the case to the preliminary investigation. As for the property claims, those were reservations on the part of... [[Mr. Marshal, something's buzzing. Eavesdropping?]] ...on the part of the National Judicial Council regarding this procedure. So that there were partially positive, partially negative opinions, as usual in the legislative process. Senator Zientarski asked if... [[Mr. Marshal, I asked what they were about. The Minister doesn't answer.]] [[I'll give you the floor in a minute. Please, Minister, finish your speech.]] Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, what was it about? They dealt with both the issues of the property statements and the return of the case to the prosecutor, as well as the issues of disciplinary proceedings, limitation... of the entire bill, the entire bill. They're public, they're familiar, we'll be happy to share them with the senator. Senator Zientarski asked if during this period the prosecutors filed indictments without evidence. Mr. Senator, as you know perfectly well, in the provisions of the Article in force at that time. 321 and articles around this provision stated that the prosecutor was referring an indictment to the court only with specific annexes indicating the question of liability. Everyone else... And why was the Amber Gold case almost knee-kneeded, so to speak graphically, at the last minute, on the eve of almost the night before July 1st? That's because all the rest of these files, multi-volume, sometimes several hundred-volume, stayed with the D.A., just went to court with an indictment from I'm sorry, but I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. 7 annexes. The D.A.'s office has even developed a theory of seven files, which should be in seven files sewn together. Everyone laughed at what was created. At the same time, you were working. I'll remind you. The new prosecutor's rules of procedure, which, in fact, only made the prosecutor. The prosecutor was losing his role as spokesperson for the public interest, and it was emphasized that he was going to act more offensively as a prosecutor just now. I will refer to the opposition of the Supreme Bar Council, which at that time expressed concerns about the right of defence. Why? That's because all the rest of the evidence, the few hundred volumes, the D.A. kept to himself. He only released an indictment with attachments to the courthouse, all the rest remained with him. And it was the defendant's role and his defender's role to draw evidence from these materials that would be useful to the defense during the trial. Why do we say that this is a reform for the rich? That's why. Show me a citizen who's going to the D.A. And out of a few hundred volumes, he's gonna pull up pieces of files that he could use later in court. It's impossible without a lawyer, and without a good lawyer, well paid. Those indictments were so prepared. They were prepared just in such a way that in order to prosecute... I repeat, the indictment could be based on the findings relevant to the submission of the charges, i.e. even the earlier phase. This was to speed up the preliminary investigation. A false idea, an alien in Polish culture. I no longer want to refer to history, to where such simplified preparatory procedures came from, and to why it is so in England. It came to this because British Queen Mary simply didn't have any money for prosecutors and told them to be private prosecutors, so-called. Social prosecutors were hired by citizens who paid them... Victims paid lawyers to go to court and prosecute. There were just no prosecutors, no money. Since the time of Queen Mary, since the 16th century it has been accepted It's a model, it's a culture, it's a system. That you can file an indictment, in short, based on records, simplified just now. But we have always, for centuries, functioned in a continental system in which the king's power was strong, there were royal prosecutors, and the prosecutor's power was in the king's hands. This is a completely different model, the European model: among others. France, Germany, Spain, Poland... And we're proud of it. We are proud of our inquisition system. That's all. Did the prosecutors file an unsubstantiated indictment? They've filed undocumented indictments. Why? Because the laws forced them to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u171	Thank you very much. Senator Dowhan's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u172	Minister, you mentioned that you would be happy to submit to the verification. Me and probably a lot of people. Your statement is not very interested, just as many people are not interested in the statements we make. There's a lot of them, and they don't really bring anything, because you don't think that someone who has a secret income or has something that I don't know. He suddenly arrived, and he can't prove it, he'll type it in, and he'll brag about it. I doubt that very much. But like you said about those property statements, I was interested in why the Attorney General might keep a statement secret. Everyone is equal to the law. Why can't he do that, for example? Our marshal to us, if there's any reason... Although I don't know what it could be, because I think it would be the same for all of us. One has less resources, the other has more, one has been lucky, the other may have worked more, someone is richer I don't know. In terms of mind rather than in terms of funds in the account. I think these conditions are the same. The introduction of such a mechanism is probably a little unfair to the councillors, mayors, wojites, presidents, Members, senators and all who make these statements. Are we worse here? And what are the conditions to be fulfilled so that such a thing can be classified?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u173	Thank you very much. Senator Zdrojewska. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u174	I would also like to refer to the previous question I asked the Minister, the question about what you said. The point was, officials in the ministry don't read property statements in the IRS. You then referred to a report, you spoke about the need to follow up on the recommendations of the report of the Council of Europe Group of States against Corruption, GRECO. Could you quote an opinion on how Polish officials work in the Ministry of Finance and tax offices, that they do not read these statements? Is it there, in this report, that opinion? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u175	Thank you very much. Senator Zientarski. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u176	Minister, you answer the questions... I don't want to judge it here, but you're just provoking questions with your own words. You just said something about the laws allowing an indictment without evidence of guilt. I'm asking, what? Because to me, it's a curiosity statement. And then there's the next question. What difference does it make as a defense attorney if the file, for example? 40 volumes, are they in court or the D.A.'s? Me, getting ready for the case... most of the lawyers were taking copies at the D.A.'s office when they read the material, which is before the indictment. You say for the rich, for the poor... what difference does it make? The point here is not to screw up courts with waste paper, often unnecessary, because it can happen. 20 volumes of invoices, completely redundant, and just write on one page that they are such, and such invoices. And you don't have to screw up the judge's table because the evidence isn't on the scale. Not on the scale, Minister. Then show me the difference between gathering files in the D.A.'s office, since you said they were there and that the defense attorney was looking for... Of course, because that's his role, the constitutional one you're questioning when you say that a lawyer is not a factor in justice. That's another psychic you're talking about.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u177	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u178	Thank you very much. With regard to the secrecy of claims, the President of the Court of Justice Not the Minister, not the Attorney General, but the President of the Court of Justice has the right to keep such a declaration of property secret because of the circumstances I have already mentioned, which is a threat to the judge concerned. If it does not agree with the regulations concerning other groups which make such claims, then... Thank you for that observation. The legislative process is to eliminate such differences. About the question, Senator Zdrojewska I think I've answered this question before if I'm able to point out... This kind of attention of the members of the GRECO fell during the meeting. The GRECO mission met, Senator, with tax officials. The report itself also draws conclusions, in general terms, that an efficient legal system must be created. About Senator Zientarski's question It didn't come out of my mouth without proof of guilt. I didn't say that. I was just talking about the difference in the manner in which the indictment was filed, in the level of the findings appropriate to the prosecution, and I'm going to repeat it again. It was clearly indicated that those acts could be brought in on the basis of lower factual findings than has been the case so far and Article. 4 k.p.k., i.e. relating to objectivity, does not bind the prosecutor as much as it had previously done in the Inquisition model. As for the second question, I think it goes beyond the scope of our debate. We're here about the adversarial process we talked about a few months ago. There are two theories as to whether he's the defendant's representative or the defendant's aide, whether he's a factor of justice or not. This is a broad scientific debate. Whether the defense attorney is acting in the name of the justice system or only in the name of his client, his mandant... I don't want to get into this. Yes, Mr. Senator, excuse me. [[Excuse me...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u179	You're welcome. [[I'm just supplemental...]] Your vote, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u180	Thank you very much. You suggested that the regulation you're talking about is against what was before, that the defender for the rich... And you gave an example that the lawyer had to search for tens of volumes in the D.A.'s office... I ask you, then, what's the difference between these files being collected at the D.A.'s office or in court? Because it doesn't matter to a defense attorney. And I would like to stress once again that, even before the introduction of the adversarial system, most defenders were preparing themselves on the basis of files in the prosecutor's office.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u181	Thank you very much. Marshal Borowski, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u182	Thank you very much. I will pursue this subject of equal treatment, Minister. We have already come to the common conclusion that they are equal and equal. 'Cause it's common court judges, and it's also military court judges 'cause, in fact, this law also refers to military judges. They are obliged to make public statements... Not a statement at all, because such an obligation was always, only a manifest statement. Ministers are not obliged to do so, but here you have agreed that they should have, and we are waiting for the right regulation. As for the judges of the administrative courts, I did not see such a thing in the bill discussed here, but the Minister was kind to say that they are also covered by the law. They're embraced... It's at a completely different point, it's about sittings of the Supreme Court, not about statements of property. And yet the judges of the administrative courts... If we're considering it in these categories, then they're just, well, how do we say it... Well, I don't want to imply anything because I don't think so at all. But if this is the case, then the administrative courts that settle property cases, settle civil cases, all kinds of complaints, and so on... and there's a field for trying to influence their judgments. So show me what law they are bound by or, perhaps more strictly, they will be obliged to make public statements of property.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u183	Thank you very much. Senator Rybicki, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u184	Thank you. Minister, I would like to ask you in which European countries the declarations of property are public. You mentioned Scandinavian patterns... I'm glad you're referring to Scandinavian systems. In general, I think that the Ministry of Justice should look at the excellent functioning of the democratic rule of law in Scandinavia. And I hope that the Ministry of Justice will also want to take from them standards in the field of regulations of K.p.k. or an executive criminal code. These are really good patterns. But I would like to ask you what other European countries have made these statements public and published.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u185	Thank you very much. And maybe Senator Dowhan, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u186	Thank you very much. I'd like you to clarify, Minister... Senator Augustine asked your opinion. The Lord said that they are in part negative, and in part positive. I'd like to hear what parts they're negative in and what those negative opinions are about. Because it's important. Since we're discussing this bill, and we haven't had time to get acquainted, because you know... Answer yourself if such a method of proceding is accepted as normal and correct to talk today... Therefore, don't be angry that there are so many questions. Please mention those negative opinions that the Supreme Court or other bodies... what was it about? I'd really ask for that.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u187	Minister, please respond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u188	Thank you very much. As for the first question, Senator Ziientarski, there is a difference. At present, all files of the preparatory proceedings shall be forwarded in accordance with Article. 344, to the courthouse. In that model, only a fragment of this file was passed on. The rest stayed at the D.A.'s office. What's the difference? The difference is, mostly when it comes to the moment that this suspect's activity, his defense attorney... The senator is still referring to the defense attorney. It is up to the defender to play a key role. In the current model, if the defendant is acting without a defender, the judge has the duty of all evidence. I would like to stress: all of the materials that have been given to him and all of the materials of the pre-trial procedure have been given to him... It is his duty to search this stack of invoices, but also to search for a possible alibi of the accused even if he did not point to it. This obligation was not in the previous model. The judge may act ex officio only in special circumstances justified by exceptional circumstances, in cases justified by specific circumstances. And it was on the pages that there was a material burden of evidence in this regard. On the U.S. Attorney's Web site, but also on the defendant. That's the difference with today's model. This is very important. If the defendant didn't submit something himself, there was a shadow of a chance that the public judge would consider it himself. It's not like that today, it's not like that today. Today, the court's lack of sufficient activity, which is, as the senator knows perfectly well, a violation of the article. 167 k.p.k. it can successfully result in an appeal plea, an appeal plea. It could be raised. Mr. Senator made an application and practiced for many years. In a continental, fair model of the criminal trial. So much for ending this thread. As far as equality between actors is concerned, as I said, there is an appropriate legislative procedure here that can eliminate these differences. Mr. Marshal Borowski's question concerned the disclosure of the statements of property and of the state in which the judges make public declarations of property. As far as systems are concerned, as I said, systems are different. Scandinavian system and systems in other countries... There's a whole range of different kinds of solutions. From the Romanesque systems to the Germanic systems to the Scandinavian ones. In principle, statements are made public in all countries. Yes? So that there are absolutely no special exceptions here, where these statements would be classified, classified, or where there would be problems in verifying these statements, as indicated in this GRECO report. As for the opinion... Opinions are on the RCL website and include a total of several hundred pages. Am I now able to condemn where the opinion is positive, where it is negative? Well, I can't point that out, 'cause I'd have to memorize all those opinions. I told them what they were generally criticized about. Well, what you're criticizing was criticized. The return of the case to the prosecutor, the disclosure of claims of property, which is intended to pose a threat to the safety of judges, the extension of disciplinary proceedings, the extension of the limitation period from 5 to 8 years, from 3 to 5 years... So there's a standard. As for the administrative courts, Mr. Senator, it's in the Administrative Courts Act, in the article. 29, there's a reference to our bill. As a result of this reference, the judges of the administrative courts are covered by this arrangement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u189	Senator Dowhan, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u190	One more time, Minister. I know it's hard right now to quote opinions from those, as you said, 100 pages... or 100 volumes? No, 100 pages. I'm worried about what you said that... that I might not know about it, that I didn't finish the law, and I'm asking questions because I think that... also in good faith... But, like you said, an opinion, for example. The Supreme Court is critical, and it is in many cases consistent with our line, with the line of questions asked today. So don't you think that something is wrong and that what you want to introduce today is not entirely right and legitimate, since the opinions of people, professionals who know about it, are consistent with our questions and concerns?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u191	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u192	Thank you very much. It's beautifully different, it's good that we're different, it's good that we have different opinions, different views. In this case we have a different position, the Supreme Court has a different position, the National Court has a different position. We live in a pluralistic society and very well that this difference of opinion is. A monolithic would be dangerous. That's why I'm always happy with critical opinions. Because you have to worry when everyone praises you. That's what someone said. And as for the fact that there are critical opinions... It's a good thing they are, because they show that you can express your opinions, that you can have different views, that you can differ. Without that, we wouldn't be discussing it. And every discussion, every difference of opinion... Even between me and the professor, there's a difference of opinion. And it's beautiful in our society. Should we listen to the Supreme Court? We're listening to the voters' voices. The voters clearly expect this matter to be in the programme of Law and Justice, Solidarna Polska, the United Right, to be public statements of property. It was one of the key points, there was a reform of the Polish judiciary, the Polish justice system, there was a return to the previous model, there was a reform of disciplinary proceedings. So it's nothing new.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u193	Senator Augustine. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u194	Minister, the fee. Let's call it a contractual punishment. The period of validity shall be increased by 100%. Does the Ministry have any idea what the scale of the statute of limitations might be? And what are the financial consequences of adopting such a solution.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u195	Senator Dowhan would like to ask you another question? [[Yes, I would, Mr. Marshal.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u196	Thank you. It is said that we have a chronicity of proceedings, that this is a negative phenomenon, etc., and that the information I have before me shows that there are more than 200 vacant, vacant judges in 2016, and that there is a lack of an increase in the employment of judges for 2017. Tell me if it's true. And if not, what is the reality of the job vacancies at the moment and what is the 2017 plan? Because even if this bill is introduced, it will not turn the judiciary upside down so as to make matters happen quickly. On the contrary, the fact that the prosecutor can enter the proceedings at any time can only extend the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u197	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u198	Thank you very much. As for the first question, Senator Augustine's question, which concerned limitation... Yes? About the statute of limitations I've already answered that question today. This is increased and will be increased in relation to other professional groups. With regard to notaries, we have already prepared appropriate solutions. What's the scale of this? I mentioned that, too. There are 50 disciplinary proceedings, that was last year, and, if memory serves, 25%. These cases end in acquittal or remission. Already in 2008, the Ombudsman informed the President of Dąbrowski, then the Chairman of the National Judicial Council, that a large number of citizens would report to the Ombudsman's office and inform him that the parties affected by the fraudulent conduct of the judge, bearing the mark of disciplinary delinquency, could not claim justice because the cases were statute-barred. And here is indeed the question of the scale of this problem that the citizen has no influence... This is somewhat related to what we are talking about here, i.e. the change of limitation periods. The citizen has no influence on the conduct of the disciplinary matter of the judge. He can't file a motion to be held accountable. Of course, he can notify the President of the court, and the President of the court can take appropriate action. Just pay attention, High Izbo, as stressed by Court Watch and NGOs That Polish citizens have no influence on whether the judge who insulted them, who behaved unethically, will be held liable for disciplinary action or not. And that is why there are 50 cases in Polish courts. In Great Britain, what's interesting I used to study it. There are over 4,000 cases a year. What does that say? That in Poland judges are such angels, and the British have such bad judges? I don't think so. That proves something else, High Senate. The fact that citizens in the United Kingdom have a real right to initiate this procedure, to direct specific applications in the course of this procedure, to lodge appeals in the course of the proceedings, i.e. they are a party to this procedure. And they're not a party with us. They're such a petitist who can come and ask kindly, but bounces away from the walls of the palace of justice, which he judges himself, judges himself and checks himself out. After all, this is unconstitutional and undemocratic... [[Sick.]] ...even sick, as the senator rightly pointed out. And I'm gonna go over what I'm talking about again. There are absolutely no contraindications in this case. On the contrary, to change the model of disciplinary action. And that's just the result. As for the longevity... Senator Dowhan asked a question about 200 unattended judges. Mr Senator, High Izbo, Poland is among the countries of the Council of Europe in the first place when it comes to judicial expenditure, counting down small countries such as Bosnia and Herzegovina, Slovenia, Croatia. I mean, four countries of the Council of Europe. In the first place. This is the first place, and normally the fifth. But apart from these small countries, this is the first place. As for the number of judges, we have 10,000 judges, which is 26 judges per 100,000 inhabitants per population. In the UK there are 3.5 judges, in France there are 9 or 10 judges, in Italy there are 10 judges, in Spain there are 10 or 11, in Denmark, Sweden, in the Scandinavian countries there are 6 or 7 judges. That's what it looks like. Further data on the earnings of Polish judges. The Polish judge earns 2.1 of the national average at the beginning of his career, when the German judge earns 0.9 of the national average, the French judge earns 1.1 of the national average. Are they complaining about wages? There you go. When it comes to resting, it looks interesting, too. As for the state of rest, it has been growing regularly for 10 years. It's already over 10,000 zlotys. The retired judge receives over 10,000 zlotys. In a situation where, I will remind you, most Polish pensioners get 1 thousand 550 PLN. [[And it's gonna be even less.]] These data speak for themselves. 200 new jobs? The question is, what are these jobs gonna do? That Polish judges will work well? Surely, citizens who complain about the Polish justice system come to your senator's office. Tell them that's my suggestion. You have a prescription for this, Senator. The senator is asking for 200 jobs. And the prescription is? Increase in the number of jobs. Increasing the number of jobs will solve the problem. The number of posts should not be increased. At the moment there should be a verification of the work of Polish judges. This verification of the work of Polish judges should be compared with the verification which takes place in other legal systems. What does she look like? Last week I had the pleasure of being in Germany. Previously, colleagues were in Austria and they saw how it worked out how the work monitoring system looked like, the work time clearance system, the juries' work records, a clear, transparent system of the judge's working time clearance. Until recently, the number of days in civil proceedings in Poland was more than 800 A little more than 200 days. We have a system problem here. Someone's gonna say there's 15 million cases, and I'm gonna answer that: out of 15 million cases, most of them are things that are dealt with under the so-called. electronic reprimanding, i.e. EPU. Most of them are registered cases, perpetual cases, prerogative cases, reprimand cases, cases in which it is not required to start, the conduct of a judicial tract in such a classic sense. As a curiosity, I'm going to say that there are so-called cases. Case in those main categories where the appointment and hearing is required are about 1 million 700 per year, i.e. more than 800 per half year. That's all that came out. So, from the mythical 15 million cases that affect which courts seem to be dealing with, most of them are where, colloquially speaking, they are about stamps and registers. We're really talking about the number of 1 million 600, 1 million 700 cases in the main categories. Among the 17 statistics that we've studied in terms of the effectiveness of judges' work in 15 cases, everything has fallen to the head, to the neck in the last few years. And which courts work the slowest? The ones with the most assistants and the ones with the biggest expenses. The 2013 report of the Justice Institute. The courts that are most subsidised, where there are most assistants, are the slowest. These statistics speak for themselves. The number of assistants has increased by 100% since 2006, and it's nobody else but Minister Ziobro... He was the only minister of justice who, when he left, gave such high increases to judges, who increased the number of posts, the salary. The following years have shown that, unfortunately, this money has been largely wasted, because the confidence which the Minister gave the judges at that time has not been met with a proper reception on the other side. That's all about the answer to the question about 200 unpaid jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u199	Marshal Borusewicz, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u200	Minister, you have carried out a very broad analysis of the work of the courts, which shows that judges need to be disciplined: higher penalties, extension of the period of prosecution of some disciplinary delinquency, etc. Since you've come very deeply into the work of judges, I want to ask you: how many courts work for two shifts, because from that statement 10, 12, a dozen years ago... I had the impression that the courts were working until 2:00 p.m. for one shift, so I'm asking you the question: has this changed? How many courts work two shifts? Because the buildings are there, the administrative apparatus is and could be arranged in such a way as to use these resources to a greater extent, so that things would go much faster.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u201	Thank you. Senator Dowhan. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u202	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, thank you so much for such a long line of work. Thank you for the valuable information I didn't know about the millions of things that are going on, most of which are done by a stamp. On the one hand, I'm a little worried that by listing numbers, comparing the pay of judges in Western countries... You can probably be jealous that they earn as much as 10,000 zlotys at rest, which is probably more than what you're making today or most of you, but I don't know if that's really the reason for jealousy or... 'Cause first of all, it's a payment. for responsible and hard work in the justice system. On the other hand, you say that the Minister had previously given large increases and it was such a credit to trust. Like today, with the data you have in front of you, and taking into account what you've already said... So how much do you want the judge working in court to make, and how much do you want him to retire?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u203	Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, but we are asking questions that last no more than a minute... [[With the bill.]] [[I suggest you rescind it.]] ...with the bill under discussion. If the Minister considers it appropriate, please refer to this question, but... I ask questions about this bill. Professor, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u204	Mr. Marshal, I would ask that the Marshal abolish such questions, because it's infinitely... It doesn't make any sense. [[But that's why you can ask questions to...]] [[Why?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u205	Ladies and gentlemen, we are at the point where you are asking questions about this law. Let us not drift towards the subjects completely unrelated to this. Mr. Marshal Borowski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u206	Well, Minister, we often use comparisons with other countries in our discussions. That's what you used today, too. I am not in favour of the idea that we have to do everything the way it is in some country or in some country. In my opinion, we can use our own solutions. Nevertheless, the principle of fairness applies when it comes to supporting the examples of other countries. The Minister was polite to answer the question as to the transparency of the statements of property, that actually in all countries the declarations of property are public, that it is variously resolved, but in general it is so. Well, that's not the case, Minister. That's not true. Not much, in many countries I don't have research on the whole at the moment, but I do know some examples. There is no obligation at all to make statements of property by judges. [[Exactly.]] In France or Spain, only judges who exercise the highest functions sit on these various general councils, etc., are required to make such a declaration. At the time when they join such a body, and then after how many years they come from it. And then you compare property differences. The others have no obligation at all. The judges in Belgium, the Czech Republic, Finland, Germany, Spain and France are not obliged to do so. Minister, the requirement of minimum reliability... If you don't know, tell me you don't know. [[Let's respect the word.]] Please do not provide such explanations and information as are misleading. If I'm gonna end with a question, I'm gonna end it... [[Was that a question or a statement?]] That was a statement. And the question is whether the Minister will want to comply with this in the future. Thank you. [[This isn't about the bill.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u207	Senator Augustine, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u208	Minister, the question about the article. 10. If in accordance with point 1, paragraph 1. 1 the prosecutor will file with the court this application, which must be taken into account, whether he will be obliged to prove the need in some way... Because you're proposing here that it's enough to look for evidence. It's like there's ever been an opportunity to end a trial like this... After all, it can be said that there is always a need to look for further evidence, evidence for anything, e.g. For the truth of the Minister's statement today. It's just a concept of rubber. The question is, will the prosecutor be obliged to do something like this by the judge, is it enough that he rewrites the sentence and then the judge has to comply with his motion? I don't find any laws here that would oblige us to do so... The same is true if it is stated that other steps are needed to clarify the circumstances of the case. Do we know what other activities this is about? Anything? That's a record. to such a degree of impreciseness that it gives the prosecutor the opportunity to use it properly in any, literally under any circumstances, whenever he thinks of it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u209	Would any of you like to ask the Minister a question? No. Minister, please answer the questions you have asked so far.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u210	Thank you very much. To answer Mr. Marshal Borusewicz's question, I will say that the countries in which they are... Excuse me, Mr. Marshal Borowski. Excuse me. ... Countries where declarations are publicly available, i.e. externally public, are such countries as Montenegro, Estonia, Slovakia and Georgia. When it comes to transparency... [[It's Albania.]] [[Don't disturb me, Mr. Marshal.]] [[I'm not interrupting. I'm helping.]] [[You're interrupting.]] Such statements shall be made public. Okay, there are countries where they're classified. [[Or there isn't.]] Or there isn't. [[But in Europe...]] Second question, Senator Augustine's question about art. Point 10 (1) 1. These conditions are copied from the article. 397 and 345 k.p.k. They already exist. Only today it is returned to the court, and in the future it will be requested by the prosecutor and the court will be bound by it. That's all. These conditions are present today, they are present today, and on their basis the courts are returning the case to the prosecutor today. [[May I?]] Thank you. [[Minister...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u211	Please ad vocem.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u212	Yeah, ad vocem. Minister, there's a court ruling, and here's the fact that the court has to. It's a colossal difference. There's someone out there who's checking it out. And I'm like, who's gonna verify that now? If the D.A. doesn't have an obligation to do anything, he can actually do something just because he has a whim.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u213	As far as probabilities are concerned, it is such a general condition that anyone applying for a temporary arrest must have the same effect as the fact referred to in Article. 258 §1 k.p.k., i.e. the fact... [[Well, he doesn't have to.]] ...runaways, hiding, covering tracks or obstruction of justice. The obstacle clause is also a general, rubber, rubber clause, and different people call it. The D.A. sort of fills it with content, and it has to do with that. He can't, so to speak, literally rely on the text of the bill. This is a general discussion about the whole application of the law. But, of course, there's a difference that you've been talking about. The court is bound by the prosecutor's motion. Thank you. [[I asked questions, too.]] Excuse me. Marshal Borusewicz asked how many courts work for two shifts. Mr. Marshal, as far as this issue is concerned, these are the courts that are on duty. There are courts that work until 6 p.m. This is an exception One day a week. That's the answer. When it comes to two changes in the sense that we generally understand this, this does not work in the Polish justice system. Once again, I'm going to brag about ours, so to speak, with the Austrian-German experience. We create a special system for recording the working time of judges The work of the judges will be weighed, counted and measured. Soon we'll show you a very good system.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u214	Senator Dowhan, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u215	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'd like to get back to the question I've already asked. Mr. Marshal is forgiving, and our questions do not serve to cause a storm or a scandal here. The minister is well prepared, he's a great answerer, and if he can't answer, he's a different... [[That answers, too.]] That answers, too. [[I would like to ask you a question related to this point.]] I already asked that question. If the Minister is tired, I'd like to ask for a break on your behalf. Mr. Marshal, it's an ad vocem of Senator Wind's speech that came out. Firstly, this project came to us today, and secondly, we are not prepared, and thirdly, we are so used to sitting in this room for a long time that we want to stay here at night. Excuse us, Minister. If you can answer my question, go ahead.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u216	Senator Spider, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u217	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question, that's a remark. When I hear these questions or diwags about courts and judges here, I get the impression that this is probably the most wronged, the most busy and poorest group of people in Poland. Meanwhile, from the information I've heard from the people I've heard because they've been in my senator's office complaining about the work and the judges' behavior... It's calling for vengeance to heaven. I'm clear, I'm clear. Minister, after all, three authorities, which are supposed to be equal in the majesty of the law. I'm the one asking why me, wanting to be e.g. I have to run for office, I have to put my face on the poster, people judge me. In order to be a groom, an old lady, in order to work in an executive body, I have to run. I mean, why can't a district court judge be elected every four years? Why will he not present his work and on this basis he will not be chosen? Is such a possibility considered, such a possibility? There are countries where judges are elected. The judges in Poland do not answer to anyone. Tell me where and whose judge was punished for destroying another man, destroying the workplace, causing many, many harm over the last 10 and 20 years. Give me at least a few examples, if you know such cases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u218	Would any of you like to ask the Minister a question? [[I'd...]] Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. You're welcome. [[Maybe I'll wait 'cause this isn't exactly the case, it's a whole different situation...]] But ask me a question. If the marshal has a question, go ahead. If not, I'm closing...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u219	I have a question for you. Oh, Mr. Senator... [[Mr. Marshal, what is this...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Oh, good. Minister, do you know that the senators, probably the same as the Members, make statements of property, they are public, and then the relevant tax offices inform the Marshal whether they have any comments or not, and then the rule committee evaluates any observations? I understand that this is a procedure that could lead to some kind of irregularities being revealed. Do you know that? Didn't the Ministry ever consider applying this procedure in this case? Disclosure of claims of property There were many voices on this subject. It shall not ensure that they are checked by the competent authorities.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u220	Does Senator Dowhan want to ask you another question? [[Yes.]] You're welcome. [[I don't know, Mr. Marshal, if there's gonna be too many questions, because they've already been...]] [[Too much.]] No, it won't.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u221	It won't. Good. I have a question with which I have already asked the rapporteur, Prof. Michał Sewerynski, about the property claims which have so far been submitted and verified by the tax offices, and are not verified by the public, as it is fashionably said. I asked about the results of the inspection of these statements. Were there cases of criminal proceedings, corruption, disciplinary proceedings, the punishment of judges? Although it is not public, it was subject to verification. We do not have such data and neither did the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u222	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u223	Thank you very much. To answer further questions, I will start by saying the words of Senator Spider, who asked a question about the privileged situation of judges. In fact, the data I gave is very meaningful. I'm just going to point out one more circumstance that the senator was talking about, namely, in terms of salary... This country was adopted in the previous term of office, the Sejm and the Senate adopted in the around-budget bill freezing increases for judges. And you know how that turned out? It's an à reprehensible opinion of the Supreme Court, which is supposed to be critical... and which we, Senator, should be taking into account. KRS, as long as my memory doesn't confuse me. I don't remember anymore, but I think the Constitutional Tribunal has submitted a proposal to the Constitutional Tribunal indicating that this law is incompatible with the Constitution, this around budget law freezing the salaries of judges. The Constitutional Tribunal held that it was in line with the Constitution that judges' salaries could be frozen. What happened next? The judges themselves, colleagues, colleagues, began to give these increases, to come up with specific applications for raises and the case was brought before the general courts. And indeed there has been an unprecedented situation: the legislator, this once, the Constitutional Tribunal, these two, said that money is frozen, and yet by the way of trial, judges are concerned, find a path that you have worked out in this House in your previous term of office, what the Constitutional Tribunal has accepted, very nicely cares about. It is precisely in the context of whether the Minister of Justice should verify the statements of the Presidents of the courts. Yeah, he should be checking. Should there be an organ that checks these statements on a check and balance basis? Yeah, he should be. I'm going to go to the next question, this is the organ. The question was, and yet another, I understand that with some suggestion, whether such an entity verifying the property statements of the judges should be created who such an authority should be. This question goes far beyond this discussion, the question is actually not for me, because I am not here at the moment able to determine whether it should be the CBA, whether it should be some other body located within the government administration, who would verify such statements, read all of this, checked it all out. Social control is the control that is, I repeat, the most effective. Group of 10,000 Judges This is not a group of senators, this is not a group of Members, this is not even a group of government representatives. We are talking about a completely incomparable scale of statements, the number of these statements. That is why this question is a systemic question that goes beyond this law. Have we been wondering? Sure, we've been wondering, but it's not a decision for now, now that it's like this, not another organ. Such a decision must be taken after a broad debate, whether or not it makes any sense to set up such an authority. Honestly? I doubt it's there right now. Social control is the best control and these statements will continue to be addressed to the tax authorities. And in my opinion, that is my hope, to improve the control of the tax authorities in this respect will be sufficient. And that's all, actually. Senator Dowhan asked me to check the statements, see if there were any cases of disciplinary proceedings. I've answered that question before. There has been no study of what it looks like, what is the scale of omissions in this regard. We have 50 disciplinary proceedings a year. Did any of them involve irregularities in the property statement? I seriously doubt that, but it is to be examined, under the jurisdiction of the Justice Institute, so that if the senator wishes, this idea we can present together to the institute, it will be research material, they will examine, verify, check whether such cases have taken place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u224	Can I get an answer to that question in writing? I'd really like to ask... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Marcin Warchoł: In writing? Yes, sir, of course.]] ...Mr. Secretary to record this. Mr. Marshal, and this is a technical matter. Someone's phone is on and someone's been calling someone, someone who's speaking. I don't know if the minister, maybe the wife, maybe the head office is calling. There is a coupling of equipment and this interferes with the conduct of the deliberations. There's still a technical problem here all morning. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u225	Thank you very much. Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u226	Minister! I'm sure you know who the chief architect of this adversarial reform was in the justice system. Tell me if I remember correctly that it was Deputy Prime Minister Gowin. And the second question is, are you considering... Because you said here how many judges are in Poland for 100,000 inhabitants, but this is not the standard of anybody's work. Here we have heard many times that the Polish justice system is swamped with various kinds of cases and that the number of cases per active judge is one of the highest. Perhaps you could relate to this information.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u227	Thank you very much. Who was the chief architect? A Science Center That's what I'd call it. Well, there was an idea that appeared in a science center, in a scientific circle, and it was then developed by the codification commission as an experiment. It was just to see if we could find out if it was gonna work out. The question was directly about the participation of Minister Gowin. Well, the codification committee doesn't have the right of legislative initiative. The legislative initiative, of course, has a different body, but it is not my role at the moment to answer such a political question. Because it's a political question. I am an official, a humble low-level official in the Ministry of Justice, so that I am unable to answer this question, but I answer that this was the idea that was born in 2009 and 2010 in the heads of several scientists. A few, not the majority. It was a definite minority. They said that they would go into history as great people, reformers of the Polish criminal system. Senator Augustine's second question was the number of cases per judge. I've answered that question before. About things that happen to... This is de facto 1 million 700 cases a year, not 15 million cases, as the judge's environment represents. These are the main categories that require a hearing. Why such a number and not another number? I felt in the senator's voice such a suggestion that it could be done by state authorities, that maybe we should cut the cognition and give it to them. It's the other organs. Let me put it this way: bringing justice to justice, because that is what we are talking about here, is a concept that the Constitutional Tribunal has developed in many years a very extensive case law. And lately, we've been wondering together about whether... There was even a debate with us in the Ministry, or so-called. The Alk case, the practitioners know what I'm talking about. In other words, cases dealt with in the regional courts concerning the so-called "direction' of the so-called "direction'. Mandatory treatment should be considered by judges or not. And it turns out that our constitution doesn't contain the possibility for government authorities to do that. Why? Because it involves imprisonment and always in such cases... Someone's gonna say it's non-Jewish. What does that have to do with justice? Why burden the judge with this? It's the clerk who should be doing this. Take, for example. Picking up kids. In Germany, Jugendamt is successful, so the question arises as to why our children could not pick up any officials. Right? Well, the constitution doesn't allow it. The exercise of justice is a concept for which a very broad interpretation has been developed in case law for many years in the context of the Article. Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1. The Court has repeatedly stressed that the right of the citizen to court has been violated here, there has been a violation of... So that, de facto, at this point in time, whenever it is necessary to rule on the restriction of civil rights and freedoms in any way, the judge must do so. Let's change the constitution, somebody will. Yeah, I'd love to. I'm all for it. [[No, no.]] [[Except for the sober room.]] The sober room, yeah. Well, it's a different mode of course, absolutely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u228	Thank you. I don't see any more requests for questions. Thank you very much, Minister, for all your answers. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Marcin Warchoł: Thank you, too.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to give a written answer to the question asked by Senator Dowhan. I'm opening a discussion. You were the first to speak to Marshal Borusewicz. You're welcome, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u229	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This is a law that contains several laws, i.e. it is not a uniform law. This is the practice we've been dealing with for about a year. I'm sure it's this year. it's a practice, not an exception. In fact, in the law which was to enforce the rulings of the European Court of Human Rights and shorten the time taken to examine the matter, limit the length of time it took to deal with matters in a timely manner. One more issue has been added: statements of property of judges. I agree that it is necessary to change, improve the procedure so that these judgments of the European Court, which are bad, embarrassing for Poland, are as little as possible and relate primarily to the chronicity. But I also think that the matter of the judge's statements should be made public. I have no objections here. The discussion on this issue reminds me of the discussion that we held at the time when the statements of the senators, Members and others, self-governments, were to become public. It was so that first these statements had to be made, then it turned out that transparency is a very important feature of verification of these statements, and then it turned out that it was not sufficient, and we created a system of verification of these statements. The Senate, the Senate, the Marshals, and the committee shall verify the senator's statements. First, these statements are assessed by the relevant tax authorities, which determine whether they have any conclusions or not. If any conclusions on these statements are made, of course this is further addressed by the relevant committee, by the Rules of Procedure, etc. So it's basically a system that's pretty closed, closed. And I have no comment on these two issues. This had to be done, the European Court of Human Rights had to be implemented. It is also necessary to move towards disclosure of the estate, although I believe, Minister, that it is important not what someone has at the moment, but the tide, i.e. the change of the property status during the term of office, the exercise of office, that is important. But I have serious reservations about the changes to the article. 10, which is being introduced. It concerns a very important change in the criminal procedure and changes in the law enforcement, judiciary and courts. This is the cloud of this statutory change, this is the most important one here. And that raises my firm objection. The Minister referred to various examples. I will say that during the period of the Polish People's Republic there was a rule of law that the prosecutor could apply for the withdrawal to the prosecution of a case which had already been brought before the court, but the decision was taken by an independent court. Here is the proposal that the prosecutor may apply for the withdrawal of the case to the prosecutor's office and the court of first instance is bound by this and, moreover, the prosecutor may also do so after the second instance's judgment if the judgment is not valid. So the D.A.'s acting, and the D.A.'s judging, not the court. This is a violation of the principle of independence of the courts. A citizen in a law-abiding state has the right to be tried by a court, not put in a situation where a prosecutor can replace a court. 'Cause that's what it's gonna look like. And not only in the first instance, as it was proposed, because right now there's a proposal that he can do it after the second instance, which is after the review... [[In progress.]] In progress, not after the case, but in the course of second instance proceedings, of course, until the second instance's judgment... [[Yes.]] It's a six-month delay to withdraw it. And I'm not convinced that this might be a one-time thing. There is a dispute between us which should be judged by the Constitutional Court, but the Constitutional Tribunal is paralyzed. Therefore, we are already entering the direct rights of every citizen, because this kind of procedure can affect any citizen. Let's imagine that this procedure can touch, for example. citizen of Mariusz Kaminski. There's a motion to delete. And if this request for cancellation is taken into account and the case is referred to review... Of course, the prosecutor can ask for a case to be dropped and the procedure starts again. This could also be about another case. The President of Gdansk has a case, I believe, on 24 November. So, before or after this case, before the second instance's judgment becomes final, this type of procedure can be applied. But it's not just those people. In every criminal case, the D.A. becomes the host of the case. Not the court! Not a court. So far, when the prosecutor handed over the indictment to the court, the court became the host and the court decided what to do with the case. This is where we eliminate this situation. This is the subject of the judiciary to the will of the administration, because the Minister of Justice is the Attorney General, and in the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office at the beginning of this year we agreed... that the majority of the PiS decided that the Minister of Justice could decide every individual case and give orders to the Attorney General at the lowest level. So you don't have to have a great imagination to imagine a situation where the Minister of Justice decides, withdraws, the prosecutor withdraws, and the case is re-run. This is a violation of the independence of the judiciary and the ability of the courts to function properly, that is the supervision of the prosecutor general over the judgment, because that is how it will be carried out. A situation where the differences between judicial authority and executive authority are increasingly eliminated is absolutely unacceptable. This will have a very serious impact on the future of the rule of law in Poland. It is not enough just democratic, free elections, we still have to apply the law. Of course, this law can be changed, but not in a way that violates the existing constitution. This provision undoubtedly violates the constitution. It is unconstitutional, contrary to the constitution, it is dangerous for the rule of law and the future of democracy in Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u230	Thank you very much. Senator Zientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u231	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The need to implement the pilot judgment of the European Court of Human Rights of 7 July 2015 in the Rutkowski case and others against Poland concerns not only the three applicants mentioned in the judgment, Rutkowski, Orlikowski, Grabowskia, but also about 600 other persons, exactly 591 persons who raised a plea of infringement in their actions. Article 6 (6) (a) 1 of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which requires the case to be heard within a reasonable period of time It is about chronicity in criminal or civil proceedings ....and art. 13 of the Convention in connection with the refusal of fair compensation. So it is necessary to submit. It's okay. It's okay. But we must speak clearly and in harmony with this, because both committees, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Legislative Committee, have accepted this minimum of PLN 1 000, which was mentioned in the government proposal, without a vote of opposition. The very fact that, so to speak, they justified and argued both the deputy minister of foreign affairs present at the meetings of the committee and the representative of our ministry in the Strasbourg Court, that the said 1 thousand PLN is a minimum of a minimorum. And that, of course, it's already... And here were discussions of the kind: let us agree to this 1 thousand PLN, minimally, because the compensation which the court ruled, the Strasbourg tribunal, are in thousands of euros, i.e. these are seeming savings. And that was the discussion. And I am pleased that the committees agree, as a rule There were probably several abstentions, but, as I recall, there were no votes against. This change is needed. I don't disagree with the issue of disciplinary proceedings. I considered and considered it, and I presented it as a representative of the Senate in the previous 2 terms of the National Council of Courts and annual conferences organized by the National Council of Courts with disciplinary representatives from all over Poland, that there should be no limitation of disciplinary proceedings. Because And that's where I'm going to give it to you. The judges are the group that, precisely because of its education, can apply law and legal destruction in order to use and extend... The statute of limitations, any statute of limitations, is a very bad signal. But the statute of limitations on disciplinary misconduct is very misunderstood in society. It's pretty obvious. Because something like this really makes it impossible to verify whether the judge committed an unworthy act or not. And there shouldn't be any doubt here. And there isn't. And therefore, I also express my satisfaction, Minister. We believe that the judges are acting... Not much, I have to say that as a member of the National Judicial Council, I have repeatedly voted in favour of tightening... I am talking about the National Judicial Council because the National Judicial Council oversees disciplinary decisions and has repeatedly requested an increase in disciplinary decision. I have taken part in such votes myself many times. Also, as the Minister pointed out, at one of the conferences relating to the activities of the National Council of Courts and Disciplinary Officers, was raised... And to be honest, I was the author of the initiative that I presented to the National Judicial Council, even in the days of the chairing of Judge Górski, to extend the catalogue of disciplinary penalties. Because, indeed, the other disciplinary penalties are a reminder or a reprimand. They also have financial consequences, but it is always better if the ruling authority has a wider range of options for applying certain penalties. Even total punishment. Because it's not as it was said during the discussion. And here I denied this position, unless Iustitii was punished twice. No, he punishes himself once, just as a criminal punishes himself with both a sentence of imprisonment and a fine, as well as a fine. It's also an obligation to return the benefit of the crime. All kinds of ailments are decided. And that's one punishment. And here too, please note that there is no discussion. We believe that... in my opinion, there is at least a question of doubt about these judges, Minister, who rule at first instance, in the district court, in criminal matters. I'll make an amendment... These judges are not many, on average there are several such judges in the primary departments, but they settle cases concerning the mob, organized crime, leg cutters, hands, etc. I think this group of judges is in a situation like this. I don't know, maybe there's about 200 of them, so I'm pretty much counting, maybe a little bit more. It should be provided with special protection. I believe that not to disclose their statements, not to make them public should be guaranteed. And as you have noticed, Marshal Borusewicz, art. 10 is unacceptable, in particular in a version that, so to speak, the stubborn maniac is unfortunately supported by the Minister. I respect the amendment tabled by Mr Sewerinski. And I would like to stress that this amendment passed without a vote of opposition at the meetings of both committees. My amendment was further along and aimed at eliminating this article in the first place. 10, because, in fact, the amendment by Professor Sewerinski eliminates what I would say, the greatest of lawlessness, but... It is undoubtedly a regulation that is not in accordance with the Constitution, because the constitution speaks of a two-instant ruling by the courts, and here we have a situation that after the decision of first instance, the prosecutor's interference The court is only the recipient here. It causes the annulment of that judgment, ma'am. This is a completely abnormal situation, which is why I asked the Minister and I tried to figure out, what is this: is this a change of system, some kind of revolution? After all, most of the time those prosecutors working under the same Attorney General had the opportunity to complete evidence or review these, let's call it, not entirely justified indictments. Ladies and gentlemen, there's no way without the evidence on which the court decides to prosecute. It really doesn't matter... [[Mr. Senator...]] I'm just gonna finish my thought and ask for another five minutes. For the defendant's defense, it really doesn't matter where the case files are, whether they're in the D.A.'s office or if they're on the judge's table. I'll finish that thought in my next speech. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u232	Thank you very much. Senator Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u233	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I'd like to start by saying that we have a period of summation right now. And what I'm trying to say is it's been a good year. It's been a really good year. And I want to congratulate the president on what happened to us this year. I would like to congratulate the President of the Polish Football Association this year, who provided us with so many positive emotions, liberated so much positive energy in us... [[Want to live.]] You're about to speak up. I speak for myself, Senator. I would like to congratulate the President of the Polish Football Association this wonderful year. I want to do this for this wonderful year for the ball and for Poland, because we had the opportunity to enjoy our staff, we had the opportunity to experience a lot of good emotions, for it was a really good year. I would like to wish that the next years would be like this, or perhaps better, and I would like to wish for the desired promotion to the World Cup in Russia, which is coming and ending the group in the first place. And back to today's debate... [[How are the scavengers?]] [[Voice from the room: Weak.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Our sailors now have a winter break, Mr. Senator. I invite you to stadiums all over Poland and in front of TVs only in April. Yeah, and the match of the Polish team, if I remember correctly, will probably be in June, so... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[March, March, Mr. Senator.]] But it's in Poland. And in March, it'll be away, yeah. And out of curiosity, I think one game has been postponed because last time in Kazakhstan it was minus 30 degrees. But it's a good thing we get a chance to have a breakup like this sometimes. The Minister has shown great patience today, and I'm sure he's responded... Well, not always the way we wanted to, but he answered, he tried. Sometimes he was squirming, avoiding answers, but I think he came out of it with a defensive hand. And I always admire in particular the substantive preparation of my colleague, Professor Michał Sewerynski, with whom it is difficult to argue and difficult to ask questions, because it has not yet been asked such a question that he would not answer. Sometimes we get a chance to travel together, so we spend hours on positive conversations. But I believe... I liked one statement that the professor said today. The fact that the law is created in good faith. And no matter which political side today this law creates, it is created with good intention, in good faith. This good faith may not appeal to anyone. As we do not like in many points, which my previous speaker, Prof. Zientarski, spoke very clearly about here, and Marshal Borusewicz also spoke about it. But it is important that this law you are creating will serve us all later, so that these problems, which today are evidently in the judiciary, are resolved. This isn't really about those property statements... In fact, neither I am, nor I think anybody's against them being made public. Although we can really argue with that. Like I said before... I don't know if you remember those questions that were still asked to you by Professor Sewerinski when we talked at all about the validity of all the property claims. 'Cause if you think about it, today, these property statements, made at different levels, by, you can say... Well, I don't know what the number is, but it's probably tens of thousands of people who have to make these statements. From all the city councillors we have, through district councillors, through officials of different levels, through parliamentarians, ambassadors, judges, prosecutors and those other people who are forced to make such statements... I don't know if the involvement of the tax authorities, which are more likely to lose this energy, Minister, on... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I don't know if the Minister is listening to me or if he's having a debate right now. Tax authorities should lose this energy to what Poland needs, so to seal the tax we are fighting for, and to improve the rational use of finance and control of these finances, and not to check over and over again statements that are repeated in many cases, and can actually be submitted. 'Cause no one's running away from making property claims. Where... this body we're subject to at this level. So that in our case they may be submitted to the Senate Marshal, Members may submit them to the Sejm Marshal, and Councillors to the President or to the voivodeship. We've got a lot of these organs. And in the event of a check-up situation, a dispute, a question of anything or a statement that a new car appeared in the councilman's backyard, that the councilman had put in new windows or was building a new house, you could always reach into an envelope with a property statement and verify it, check it out. Today, in a time of electronic exchange of information, in a time of use of payment cards and transfers, in a time when money is closed, it is hard to imagine that a sudden inflow of cash, sudden appearance of funds in your account, building a house or buying a luxury car, a yacht or anything like that will remain without an echo. Minister, maybe this issue is not strictly related to the bill we're investigating, but I think it's a matter to consider. The point is to reduce the burden on the tax authorities so that they don't verify, check for a few months... I had to walk around explaining myself because I didn't enter the common parts in the apartment block, and I have a 1/1000 share in the stairwell, the dumpster and the elevator. And I had to make a statement, and someone had to verify it and send a letter. There are a lot of cases like this, very simple mistakes. I think this is something to think about. Like I said, it's about making statements to your superiors. You could reach for them at any time, because they can be stored for 10 years, as is the limitation period. I'm sure that would relieve the tax authorities. I think that human curiosity is satisfied today, because neighbors, acquaintances, or this so often mentioned here, the public knows how each of us lives, what he drives, where he goes on vacations, what clothes he goes in, what restaurant he sometimes eats. I don't think that's classified information. If someone suddenly changes their life dramatically, it won't get away with the people they meet every day. I also want to say that, as a senator for the second term, I have introduced free legal advice to me. I had a lot of people who didn't have the resources to go to expensive lawyers or lawyers. And sometimes it's like the Minister said that people are trying to deny judgments because they feel somehow deceived, unfairly treated. It's hard for us to judge whether I'm a layman in this area or if we have a few volumes of files at our disposal sometimes. No one has the time, but first of all enough knowledge to get to know it very carefully. I think these are occasional cases. It's also like if someone does something and gets convicted in some way. I'm not talking about serious crimes. Then he feels deceived, subconsciously still believes that he is innocent and that someone has taken an interest in him, either the court or the authority that led the case. I would also like to say, Minister, that we do not like being members of the Civic Platform, it was reported at the beginning of the meeting that we are debating this point in the way it looks today. It is good that this discussion has turned into a series of questions and answers, from which we could get a lot of information, but we do not like the way in which this point is introduced. I would like to say once again that this is not how we are supposed to make the law. It cannot be done in such a way that today we are called to the meeting... [[Mr. Senator...]] I'm almost done. It's not even important anymore that it wasn't planned. But there is a change of agenda and there is a point on which we are not prepared. And we must ask for a break so that our colleague Zientarski, who may not be as physically fit as the Minister, can come to his senses to collect the documents. He needs time, but first of all we need time, because we want to read the documents and read the opinions that are included to not waste each other's time and not bombard each other with questions. Please. 'Cause these are serious things, court is a serious thing. In the future, to give these matters a very high priority and to be able to debate in a normal way and as I and most of us are accustomed to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u234	Thank you very much. Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u235	Ladies and gentlemen! The discussion was long and we're probably all a little tired, but it's not our fault. We had to ask so many questions, because some of us saw the amendments for the first time just before the meeting and there was no time to read the subject matter. But I have to say that this discussion may have convinced some, some have not. I was rather convinced by the Minister at some points. I felt the same way about this case, which is about the transparency of the statements. And in answer to some doubts, I would like to say that with judges it is not exactly the same as with Members. It's not like that, because it's a completely different kind of thing and a completely different kind of relationship between a person, which is, for example. Convicted... They're multiple killers, they're individuals... Besides, it's the same for the prosecutors. That's what I think. And judges, and prosecutors. Let me remind you that we have had cases of attacks on judges and attacks on prosecutors in Poland. There have been cases and protection should have been applied. There have been trials in these cases. So it's not like such full disclosure is always advisable. And if anyone's having second thoughts, I get it. I understand that when someone's smart, it's from property statements. Besides, whether the person who wrote the statement of property is honest or not He can still read a lot of things. He can read information about his whereabouts, the state of possession, what children do, whether he is married, etc., etc. A lot of things that are a news treasurer for someone who wants to use that information against a judge or, I don't know, blackmail, assault, etc., etc. Yeah, that's what I'm paying attention to. The matter is not so clear and obvious. And, as I say, it also applies to prosecutors. And with regard to the intentions of this law, i.e. improving what we call the slowness of courts in Poland, I believe that this is not a solution. If we want to eliminate the so-called. slow courts in Poland, I suggest I would also propose to the Minister to listen to the Supreme Court judge's report, which stated exactly what the problems in the justice system are, why certain proceedings are so long-lasting and how it looks. The judge also gave us a lot of data that talked about how our judges were busy. I'm protesting something that is happening again in this room, i.e. Against the fact that from the entire judicial group we are actually making some special care group of the Ministry of Justice, a group that is spoken of very much, which is spoken of very badly. In my opinion, this bill is, unfortunately, prepared only so that a certain group of cases, which is currently in court, is withdrawn from court and a certain group of cases hastily returned to that court. It's only done for this. I think that no one in the opposition who is following what is happening here, and is observing intentions, has no doubt that that's what all this is done for. I have very big doubts about whether this is constitutional at all. Let me return... I suspect the amendment by Professor Sewerinski will not pass. I hope that Professor Sewerynski will at least vote in favour of this amendment. I would like to say that the important thing for me is that in every case a citizen has the opportunity to... I am thinking here of the parties to the trial, so that they may appeal if the decision threatens the legal interests of one of the parties. And I'm going to propose here the following change. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 10 in point 1 of the first paragraph. 1a the second sentence is replaced by the following: Article. 344a §3 of the Act referred to in Article. 1, shall apply. He was removed from there. What does that mean, that Article applies. 344a? First of all, the decision referred to in §1 serves as a complaint. That means that the prosecutor's office will be able to appeal to a higher court. I'm gonna make an amendment like that. The second part of the amendment will be as follows: 15 paragraph shall be deleted. 2. That's the consequence. That's the amendment I'm allowing me to present to the marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u236	Thank you very much, Senator. Now, please speak to Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u237	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Whenever I see a draft law on justice drawn up by the law and justice community on the agenda, I have to admit it. I'm getting suspicious. Because always under the pretense of dealing with some important matter is trying to really weaken the Polish justice system, trying to weaken its authority and trying to introduce mechanisms that hit its independence. And, unfortunately, this time it's no different. Although the intention is that at every point... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator, I'm so sorry. [[There you go.]] The intention here is to act under the law to improve the functioning of the justice system. Because who would think that fighting corruption in the justice system wouldn't serve the cause? I'm sure we'd all sign off on that. But if, by the way, as Senator Zdrojewska rightly pointed out, one is trying to suggest that the dimension of this phenomenon is unknown, what if there is a shadow of suspicion on the entire ten thousandth environment, if it is said that these are almost holy cows who want to receive something, and that there are no people with special powers, then it clearly does not serve to build the authority of the justice system. Well, it turns out that on these 15 million cases, well, maybe 1 million 600 thousand of these ending sentences, there were 50 disciplinary cases. And, Minister, we should hear from you here that this is a margin that needs to be eradicated. Margin, not rule. We should hear from you here that the Polish justice system, every day, today, is doing its duty, is being executed, with the huge involvement of lawyers, prosecutors and judges, the entire justice system. We cannot wait for such words here, and we cannot wait for the ministry, which should be the last when it comes to undermining the authority of the justice system, including the Polish courts. And now for the individual parts. I absolutely agree that everyone should be treated equally in terms of statements. But it is right that Marshal Borowski pointed out that there is a whole group of people who have very high public positions and who do not voluntarily comply with their statements and there is no legal requirement. Do I not agree that such a popular assessment will improve the situation here? No. If we really wanted this verification, and if it is that in the case of judges, the tax offices fail to comply with their duties, also in the assessment of the actual assets and declared assets... After all, the Minister seems to know that it is the duty of the IRS to compare these two realities today. Here you go, where are the laws that order the tax offices or the tax offices to verify, as is the case with the senators. 'Cause the committee I was working on gets an assessment from the IRS As in the case of city councils, municipalities, powiats, sejmików voivodship? The tax authorities must review each such statement and express their views on it. These regulations aren't here. And we have a similar situation when it comes to the issue of statute of limitations, the main subject of this law. Well, to get better here, it's not enough. If this is not enough to say: we are meeting European requirements well, we are raising this compensation which, let us be honest, is simply ridiculous in the financial dimension. For the whole year of limitation, ladies and gentlemen, 1 thousand PLN! That's laughter. In the face of citizens, not real compensation! This is ridiculous! That's the way to say it. Of course, we will meet European requirements, but is this an answer for citizens who are waiting for a fair and swift examination of their case? That's not an answer. And when it comes to these limitations... Mr. Minister, where are your suggestions that such a long-term life shouldn't take place? You should at least give us an outline of what you want to do today. And you say all kinds of things about judges how bad they are, but you don't talk about your responsibilities, about the obligation to fix the system. And I think we've lost a lot of hours here, looking forward to your most important information of this kind. That's why I'm really disappointed. When we talk about art in turn. 10... I'm already overlooking these issues, extremely important, violations of the fundamentals of justice in any situation, whether short-term, indifferent or one-off... If the D.A. can challenge the final judgment of the court, that's... not the final judgment, but the judgment of the court. This is outrageous, that is far beyond European and democratic standards. And you're going out here and you're talking about a situation like this? You, who are also responsible for being a guardian of the law in this regard? Of course, if there are elements to be touched, let us strengthen these mechanisms, but not so as to exceed the most cardinal principles. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]] I would like to raise again what was said in the question, namely this right, although limited temporary, for certain types of cases, etc. We are arguing whether it is possible to apply once or not, I would like to believe to the Minister that once... However, in a situation where such a proposal cannot be assessed to any extent by the court, because it will have to be taken into account, all kinds of general provisions are, in my opinion, not the implementation of the law, but a threat to civil rights. Because, ladies and gentlemen, somebody answer what are the essential circumstances. Let someone answer what is the necessity to seek evidence, to carry out other activities. Well... [[Such an important circumstance is the end of time.]] Yes, Mr. Marshal, but the moment I finish my sentence. Well, since we don't know this answer... truth, Minister, there are such records, but when it is subject to judgment by the court, and not when it is no longer subject to judgment by the court. It is completely outside the borders of justice in a democratic state. And that is why it is absolutely impossible to move on to the agenda of this law and to agree to such solutions, even if someone has declared, like the Minister, their noble intentions to prosecute corruption, to improve the functioning of the justice system and to go out against those who are sometimes in this justice system through the chronicity of the victim's proceedings. This is a bad proposal, the consequences of which we will be seeing soon.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u238	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u239	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to say once again that replacing the prosecution is an equal slope for law and justice as well. The laws written in the small letter. This is an extremely dangerous thing. That's why I'm making amends. In the first amendment, farthest away, I propose that this article be deleted. Ten and throw him in the history bin. We're not gonna remember that, and it's better that we do. If this amendment fails, in the next amendment, I propose to delete it in Article. 16 point 2, which will cause the vacathio legis of this article to be the same as the whole law, i.e. 2 weeks. This will remove the various suspicions that have been formulated here in the Chamber and which I have, too. It meant that this was meant for specific people who wanted to catch up with this article. If this doesn't go away, I think it's time to define an article. 10 of the Act and in point 2 after paragraph 2. 1a add paragraph. 1b as follows: referral at the request referred to in paragraph. 1, may take place only once in the course of the proceedings. It's very possible that I'm too suspicious. It is very possible that the intentions of the Ministry of Justice, Minister of Ziobra, are the best. But I don't believe it. I don't believe in good intentions. I can't believe this article is supposed to improve the efficiency of judgment. This article. 10 is intended to bring up cases that have already been brought before the first court or are in second court, not yet legal. The prosecution is undoubtedly in the jurisdiction of the court. And yet there is a division of power into executives, to which the prosecutor's office belongs, and a judicial one. And the courts are here to judge, and the prosecution is here to investigate, prosecute. This division in this bill is disturbed. And in the end, I'm thinking about where the non-postumus is for lawyers who sit on a government bench... not in a government bench, but in a jury of the ruling party, law and justice, for professors, for lawyers. Is there any change that I'll hear about: you can't go any further. At the same time, I hope that at least the amendment of Professor Sewerinski, Senator Sewerinski will be taken into account. Of course, it's not enough. That's a bit of an improvement on this article. 10, that basic thing I was talking about, but it's, unfortunately, not enough. Art. 10 should be removed from this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u240	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Zientarski. [[Mr. Marshal, on a formal matter. May I?]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u241	Because... [[Microphone.]] It's on. Mr. Marshal didn't turn on my... It's on now. [[No, no, I didn't turn anything on.]] Yes? Today these equipments are failing us somehow. Mr Marshal, High Izbo, because many times it has been stated that the law is not constitutional, I propose that it be referred to two committees which have acted on this law, namely the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Legislative Commission, in order to consult the Constitutionalists, whether the said law is in line with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u242	Mr. Senator, there's no such thing as this. At the moment, we're going through this bill in the Senate, and we're in the middle of a discussion. Senator Zientarski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u243	So this proposal will be recognized after the discussion, as I understand it? [[No, that conclusion...]] Because the formal application is filed, so... [[But there's no way to direct this...]] Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Continuing the thought which my previous speaker, Marshal Borusewicz, had just shared here, and which I also concluded my speech... It's about that wretched art. 10. 'Cause what is it? This is one big vote of distrust towards the judges, against the independence of the judge. I'm not talking about this anymore. But you have to keep that in mind, too. After all, in the case of this prosecutor's office, in the case of the same Attorney General... Well, it's been months to make up for this lack of activity and to make up for the evidence, to complete the proceeding, perhaps to provide some additional expertise. But no, there's an abstract recipe here that says there's a need to look for evidence. There is still a need to seek evidence before the charge is made. 'Cause how can someone charge with no evidence? Therefore, it is a little late, and there was time for it. And telling the court that the court isn't gonna do it... Well, you emphasized that, too. And here it was, among other things. In that battle for a new shape... Although I did, too. If the Minister was following this, he knows I've been making proposals that would allow... I fought with the representatives of the codification committee to ensure that a lawyer, even in the case of classified data, could address the court for the purpose, I would say, of equalizing the weapon so that it would not be closed so that the court could, however, carry out proceedings of its own motion. In principle, and not in exceptional situations. Yeah, but I'm skipping that. The most important are the issues of the prosecutor, the defender and the man who is accused, who has passed the whole of the Gehenna, who has been acquitted and in which case the prosecutor may, in a normal manner, appeal and possibly carry out a request of evidence at the stage of the second instance. That's a possibility. You can complete the procedure if you need to. And here we come to the material truth. And doing such total destruction in this situation... Because here, in fact, the D.A. is erasing the court's ruling with his will, they prefer unverified by no one. It is enough to provide a statutory condition which, as has been said many times here, no authority will verify. What's this? He can only write one sentence: I demand a file because there is still more evidence to be found. And that's it. What does that mean? Well, it means prolonging the proceedings, but it also hits the defendant's constitutional rights, which has the right to... Of course, he is not sure yet, but the ban on reformationis in peius does not allow the district court to convict such a defendant in the event of a prosecutor's appeal, because the court must overturn this judgment and refer the case to retrial. Those are the guarantees now, and here, in the article. 10, even in the version of Professor Sewerynski, we deprive the accused of the possibility of making complaints This also applies to the role of the courts. Even if such an application is made before the judgment is given. It's also breaking certain rules, very important rules. Which is why, as a lawyer, I'd like to say... Of course you can argue about what you call it and whether a lawyer is a factor in justice. He's always been treated like this. In the Polish People's Republic, Minister, it was clearly mentioned that it is a factor of justice. And at that time I was defending and at war, and earlier, and later. [[Time's up.]] I'm done. But these rules were actually applied. And no one would think of that kind of concept. Therefore, we must defend certain principles, we must speak out. Fortunately, we agree at least on this basic principle. I hope that the Senate's voice will break through in the Seym, which I am also very interested in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u244	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Silence.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u245	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'll start with what deserves full acceptance and what is a ray of hope. The inability of our justice system, so strongly stigmatized by the European Court of Human Rights by giving a pilot sentence... I would remind you that this is a judgment that suspends more than a few hundred other cases concerning the same problem, which is the problem of the chronicity of proceedings. Thanks to the regulation we adopt, linked to the pilot judgment in the Rutkowski case and others, these situations will not be repeated again. This sentence will only be a historical sentence, which will indicate that in the past it has been wrong for us to obtain within a reasonable period of time a sentence for the man who brought the case, whether civil or criminal. Unfortunately, the history of the 2004 Act, which was intended to prevent the length of proceedings, is very strange. I would like to remind you that we adopted it after the previous judgment, also against Poland, which stated that there is no national mechanism for forcing us to obtain a decision within a reasonable period of time. Then we introduced the 2004 Law, largely modelled on the Italian so-called. Pinto's bill. By the way, Italian justice issues It may have been a little consolation, and they have even greater comfort, because there are millions of cases missing, and the proceedings sometimes take more than 10 years, which is the same as in the case of Rutkowski's case; we have also dealt with cases where the Court has awarded very large compensations, amounting to around EUR 9 000 plus costs of proceedings amounting to around EUR 1 000. Ladies and gentlemen, the law that was issued in 2004 had a strange history. We introduced the possibility to lodge a complaint, but there were imperfect solutions regarding the fact that compensation Then there were further judgments of the Strasbourg Court, which stated that this solution was not satisfactory, because in order for the law to be respected, there must be compensation for damages or damages in the event of an infringement. We have therefore introduced a rule that the finding of a breach of the right to obtain a judgment within a reasonable period of time must involve a kind of quasi-compensation. Amounts were accepted from probably PLN 1 000 to PLN 10,000. In the next stage they were increased, from PLN 2 000 to PLN 20,000. Today we are amending this law, first of all by referring, in one of the first articles, to the European Convention on Human Rights and clearly pointing out to our judges that they are to comply with the standards resulting from the case law of the Court of Justice, which is a very positive step, the first good step. The second good step, which unfortunately was withdrawn, which I regret, was that we anticipated that the amount of this mentioned quasi-compensation would amount to PLN 1 thousand per year of delay in proceedings, and now we want to determine this. This is the proposal, so it was voted out in the Sejm. In the amount of PLN 500. And that is what I am pointing out, because the Rutkowski judgment clearly pointed out that the amount of about 1 thousand PLN would be satisfactory in these three cases. He clearly said: where there were 11 years of delay in proceedings, the allocation of the amount of PLN 2 000 is ridiculous In fact, this is what the tribunal used. But it could be said that this would be acceptable if the amount was PLN 11,000. As it would seem, the conversion rate is approximately PLN 1 thousand per year. And let me remind you that the Court has already very often decided on a much higher amount, sometimes reaching up to EUR 1 000 per year of delay, given, of course, the reasons for this long-term procedure, which was of importance to the party. And I would like to point out that, ladies and gentlemen, this is very painful, especially if the page comes e.g. the right to pension benefits, because often in such situations it happens that for several years there is no means of living. And these are, unfortunately, non-contradic cases, which happen in our courts inexperientially. So that it is very good that these changes discussed here will be made. Only, as I say, I would appeal to consider whether the amount of this quasi-compensation is really to be reduced to PLN 500 for one year's delay in proceedings. Because I still don't think that's gonna satisfy the Strasbourg tribunal. We risk losing more cases, and this is, as I say, often very expensive. Therefore, it seems to me that a simple economic account indicates that sometimes it is worth spending a little more money in individual cases. 'Cause I don't think there are so many cases that there's so much that they're over four years old. After all, the law provides for a minimum of PLN 2,000 at the conversion rate: PLN 500 per year. So where we're dealing with a gap of up to four years, and so the page that complains will get 2,000 zlotys. So the battle is now about whether we pay PLN 1 000 or PLN 500 in case of a postage of more than 4 years. Well, I think it's gonna be quite occasional cases when such a delay occurs, and that's why they're gonna be, I hope, relatively few cases that need to be paid. Now I will move on to the second question, which is perhaps more shocking and has met with criticism, namely this unfortunate article. 10. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry to say this, but In accordance with the principle: amicus Plato, sed magis amica veritas, I must stand up for the accused. Ladies and gentlemen, it cannot be that we take a step backwards and eliminate the possibility of filing a complaint against a court order which takes into account the prosecution's request to withdraw the case to the prosecutor in order to complete the proceedings. Since, ladies and gentlemen, we have already passed this law once, despite some controversy, because it is a breach of the general principle of criminal proceedings, which should be moving forward rather than backwards, should not go back to the stage of the preliminary investigation... We accepted such a change on 10 June 2016 and expressly stated there that such a decision of the court, which is to take into account the prosecution's request to return the case to the prosecutor's office, is entitled to a complaint. That's why I'm asking you, what's changed since then that we're giving up on this? I would remind you that a complaint is also a guarantee that the party's right to obtain a fair judgment is respected. This is a guarantee measure. It cannot be that the prosecutor will be a superarbiter who imposes his will on the court, on the opposite side, or on the defendant defended by a lawyer, and it is not subject to any control. Well, ladies and gentlemen, every man is mistaken. We cannot assume that we are dealing with a situation where someone is infallible. And I beat myself in the chest because sometimes as a lawyer after months or years I thought that my actions were imperfect or wrong. The same can happen in the case of a prosecutor who, after some deeper consideration, would conclude that he should not have made such a request. That's why there's an instance of court proceedings, and that's to correct the actions of a man who's wrong. Let us remember the old Roman principle of errare humanum est, the human thing is to be wrong. The prosecutor who makes such an application is not excluded from this. That's why I think it's art. Ten is unnecessary, unfortunate. We should leave the art behind. 5 intact, as previously established. It was an accident provision to apply to those cases which were still pending at the time when the adversarial procedure of criminal proceedings was in force. Generally speaking, at the moment there is some confusion in the criminal procedure. I don't know if you're aware of this... [[Time's up.]] ...that, at the moment, proceedings are conducted according to three different procedures. Of course, for the participants of this procedure, discernment, when the procedure is applicable, is a huge difficulty. I therefore very much call for caution when it comes to such frequent revision of the criminal procedure, in particular the circumvention of appropriate rules, which aim to establish equality of arms between the procedural parties required by Article. 6 the European Convention on Human Rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u246	Thank you very much. Senator Augustine. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u247	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The Minister, answering questions, used a certain wording, perhaps imprecisely recalling it, but the point was that the prosecutor was responsible for the rule of law in Poland. Of course, he is, but he is co-responsible, and not responsible as the only one, not responsible over others, but in cooperation with others for the sake of all of us. I'm talking about it because it sounded really bad here, and I don't think that's the Minister's intention. Indeed, if someone wanted to conclude from my emotional statement that I had no objection to the functioning of the justice system, it would be wrong. This fire, which was heard in my words, was supposed to draw attention to the fact that we lack a clear vision as we are to come out of it. Agree, not even PLN 1,000, nor will it oblige the entire justice system, nor will it satisfy those who are affected by the length of proceedings. I would rather agree with Senator Silence, not only on this last point, but also on the fact that this law, although it meets the expectations set out in the judgment of the Court of Justice, will not guarantee us that there will be no continuity. Ladies and gentlemen, each of us has a very common view, seen many years after the incident: a judge who has hundreds, sometimes hundreds of volumes of files on an infinitely large desk and gives a judgment that often annoys us. This is a picture that we often remember, but this is also, Minister, a challenge. You may disagree with Prime Minister Gowin, once the Minister of Justice, who introduced the reform mentioned by Senator Cichoń. However, there was some intention, some hope that instead of getting stuck in procedures and papers, it would be quicker to get to the bottom of the matter and to get to the bottom of it. We would like to see today's debate differently. All these hours we've waited for convincing words that this situation will change. I think, Minister, that we have the right to expect someone from the Justice Department to stand here soon and not tell us how to weaken the National Judicial Council, how, by crossing certain barriers, equip one of the participants with more powers and how to destroy the authority and the ability of the Constitutional Tribunal, but will tell us how to give the citizens what they really are waiting for, that is well, efficiently and fairly ruling the justice system. District courts, district courts, downstairs... These courts are flooded by thousands of cases. Some cases are certainly brought there as a result of some constitutional interpretations, and another part is directed there completely without need, which does not allow us to rule on important matters much more quickly and with greater scrupulousness. I appeal to that, Minister. The Senate is a good place to debate the future of the Polish justice system, which undoubtedly needs to be repaired.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u248	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Komarnicki made his speech in the discussion on the protocol. I would like to inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted in writing by Senator Zdrojewska and Marshal Borusewicz. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Marcin Warchoł: No.]] As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held today. I hope so. We proceed with the review of item two of the agenda: the amendment of the Rail Transport Act and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print 311 and the report of the Commission In print No 311 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Grzegorz Pekkis, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u249	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! The Commission was sitting at the previous meeting of the Senate on a law aimed at adapting the national legal order for rail transport to the amendments resulting from the directives of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union on the creation of a single European railway area. Most of this is about renewing or giving new definition names, as well as defining the functions, how the President of the Railway Transport Office chooses and how he acts. These are very interesting records, which were in fact not discussed very much at the committee meeting. 12 amendments were tabled. All these amendments were supported, accepted by the committee. I suggest you proceed like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u250	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Infrastructure and Construction was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Come on in. Hello, Undersecretary of State, Minister Andrzej Bittel.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u251	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I would briefly like to say a few things about this legislative initiative. The aim of this amendment is to implement the Directive of the European Parliament, which should be implemented in our legal order by 16 June 2015 • the Directive on the creation of a single railway area. The second objective is to implement the Directive on the interoperability of the rail system in the Community. And these are the basic issues that this law is supposed to settle, settle and introduce into the Polish legal order. I'm gonna talk about four key things, and I'm gonna get ready to answer questions. Firstly, this legislative initiative will create legal opportunities for the development of a multiannual maintenance programme. This programme will define the tasks of the infrastructure managers, inter alia. the standard, during its duration and the resulting financial resources for their implementation. This programme should contribute to the proper maintenance of the modernised network of railway lines. The adoption of the programme will be the fulfilment of Poland's obligations to the European Union and should translate into a measurable improvement in the quality of service of rail customers, both passengers and freight forwarders. The improvement in the way rail infrastructure is maintained will, of course, depend on the solutions adopted in the programme, which will have to be agreed with the Council of Ministers, including the Ministry of Finance. The second point is to remove the supervision of the Minister responsible for transport over the President of the Railway Transport Office. This is a regulatory change aimed at making this body independent of the Minister responsible for transport. The third issue is the separation of a new group of objects, so-called. service facilities designed to provide the services necessary for the transport process. These facilities will be subject to different rules than in the case of railway infrastructure for making them available and charging for the use of these facilities. The fourth point is the introduction of amendments and additions to existing rules for the provision of railway infrastructure, including the possibility for a wider group of operators to order train paths. This right will be conferred not only on carriers, but also on anyone interested in obtaining capacity, including public collective transport organisers. At the same time, in order to limit fraud, the infrastructure manager will be entitled to request financial guarantees in the event of non-use of allocated capacity. That's the fourth general. Thank you very much for the pace of work and I kindly ask you to accept this regulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u252	Thank you very much. Please remain, as the senators can now report from a place of no more than a minute of inquiry to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Any of you... [[I'd like to, and then Senator Florek would.]] Would any of you like to ask such a question? Who volunteered first? [[Me.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u253	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Just a quick question. If I have heard correctly, this is the implementation of 2 directives. One of the directives, if the Minister has put it well, was to be implemented by 16 June 2015. If you have such information, I would like to know why it was not implemented within this time limit. Because it's a technical act, a technical amendment. Was it some form of inaction, or is it such a problem that it could not be implemented within the time limit indicated in the directive?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u254	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u255	Mr Senator, I would say in this way: I would not like to go into the motivations that caused this directive not to be implemented within a certain period, and there was indeed enough time. All I can say is that we do not now have... we are at the end of the process of introducing these provisions into Polish legislation and that is what we are focusing on.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u256	Thank you very much. Senator Flork's question, please. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u257	Mr. Marshal! Minister! In connection with the EU funds that we have to use now, during this period... Such a question: can this law support, help, in particular, the use of these funds? You were just talking about a long-term maintenance program. Will this law therefore be helpful in the use of EU funds?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u258	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u259	The multi-annual maintenance programme concerns the maintenance of what will be built. There is no direct link in this respect.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u260	Mr. Senator Pekkis. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u261	Minister, a short technical question typically concerning 2 regional operators: the Silesian Railways and the Opolskie Railways. From Zabrze to Gliwice arrives the train of the Silesian Railways, it is the next station, and from Gliwice to Kędzierzyn-Koźla goes the regional train. The person commuting from Zabrze to Kędzierzyn drives one station by the Silesian Railways. The Silesian Railways are notoriously late, and the result is that such a person is unable to make it to the Opolskie Railways. There's no one to report that train waiting. The train of the Silesian Railways arrives so late that the related train going to Kędzierzyn is no longer there because it left and there was no report of conflict. Are you predicting that there will be a person who will be able to solve such issues?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u262	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u263	Not as part of this legislative undertaking.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u264	Senator Rooster, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u265	Minister, we need to explain briefly what this bill is all about. This law is that the UTK will be directly subject to the Prime Minister of the Government of the Republic of Poland. Now the UTK is under the authority of the Minister and in case of an accident, the Minister is calling a committee. The EU clearly recommends that we separate... Because the Minister can't influence the post-accident committee. Thank you, that's all.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u266	Thank you so much for that question. [[That wasn't really a question.]] Do you wish to respond to him? I'm not saying answer 'cause it's not...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u267	I fully confirm that this is the case.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u268	Would any of you like to ask another question? Senator Florek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u269	I may be on the same subject as Mr Rooster talking about the Railway Transport Office. I'm a little surprised, because in all the amendments that have been so far, you generally leave open competitions. He is simply appointed to these positions. However, here, as I recall, the principle is that the competitions for the President of the Railway Transport Office are open. Has anything changed with regard to the requirements for these positions, or does it remain the same as before? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u270	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u271	The requirements for the qualification of the President shall remain unchanged. The contest procedure goes to the premier's audience.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u272	Would any of you like to ask another question? I don't see any calls. Minister, thank you very much. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Andrzej Bittel: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. There are no legislative proposals. I therefore close the discussion. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held today. Please read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u273	High Senate, I have two announcements to make. A joint meeting of the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions will take place 5 minutes after the adjournment is announced in room 182 in order to... [[Voice from the room: 15 minutes after completion.]] Yeah, 15 minutes. ... Examination of requests submitted in plenary to the Law amending the Law on the system of common courts and certain other laws. And the second message. I kindly inform you that the meeting of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs Committee on 16 November 2016 will be held at 9.30 a.m. in room 179 and not as planned earlier at 8 a.m. This is a message from the chairman of the committee, Senator Sławomir Rybicki. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u274	Thank you very much. I'm calling an hour off until 6:45. At 6:45 p.m., there will be a vote on these two laws. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 17 minutes 45 to 18 minutes 46]] I'm reopening the session. Ladies and gentlemen, we have to wait a little longer. Am I declaring... or am I prolonging the recess by half an hour: 7:15 p.m. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 18 minutes 46 to 19 minutes 15]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u275	I'm reopening the session. I ask the senators of the secretaries to take their seats at the president's table. The Senators, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by a point: the Act on the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, print No 321 and consider it as the third item of the agenda. If I do not hear the votes of opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. Mr. Senator Klich. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u276	As you can imagine, on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I would like to object to the introduction of this law. I'm doing this for two reasons. Firstly, since the Legislative Commission, which has so far dealt with these essential legislative issues, has not so far dealt with this law at first reading. Secondly, it is a law which raises the highest doubts and controversy due to the manner in which the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal are disciplined and because their civil liberties are reduced after their mission has been completed and the prohibition to speak publicly on national matters. For these two reasons, I would like to ask you not to include this law on the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u277	Thank you very much. In that case, we shall proceed to the vote on the proposal I have put forward. Who among you, ladies and gentlemen, the senators, is in favour of supplementing the agenda with a point: the Statute of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, printing No 321 and considering it as the third item of the agenda? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 Senators voted, 51 votes against, 28 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 4]] I therefore state that the High House has adopted a proposal to supplement the agenda with a point: the statute on the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. We return to the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on the system of common courts and certain other laws. The meeting of the Legislative Committee and of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions took place at the time of the debate, which responded to the conclusions put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the matter; it is in print No 318 Z. I would very much like to ask Senator Michael Sewerynski, Senator rapporteur, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u278	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The joint committees at the meeting held today considered the proposals made during the debate today on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the General Courts and on certain other laws. The Commission supported amendments 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8 and 10 in the table of proposals and requested that the Senate adopt these amendments. At the same time, I inform you that minority proposals have been submitted and that Senator Piotr Zientarski has been appointed as their rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u279	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the joint committees, Senator Piotr Ziientarski, to present proposals supported by a minority of the joint committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u280	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, the minority recalls that it is inappropriate to introduce an entire article into this law. 10. Not just this amendment Of course, we support it too, partly, so to speak, rescues the situation and certain rules. The amendment introduced by Senator Severinski, we support, but we believe that amendments 5 and 12, 7 and 11 and 13 should also be accepted. First of all, it's about getting the whole article. 10 was eliminated to be This is an alternative amendment by Senator Zdrojewska For example, the possibility for the parties to challenge this phrase, of course, in the proceedings before the judgment takes place, and to automatically delete this article, which introduces dualism in the matter of vacathio legis, because of the article. 10 speaks of its entry into force immediately after the adoption of the law, i.e. there is no vacatio legis here, which is in the general provision relating to the entire act. For these reasons, we believe that support for these amendments is necessary. Finally, if you do not accept at least Amendment 6, which you have tabled, Senator Seweryński, we will certainly vote against the entire bill. [[But you generally agree with Professor Sewerinski's amendments, right?]] We generally agree, but I wanted to mark it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u281	Ladies and gentlemen, do the senators of the applicant still want to speak? Senator Bogdan Borusewicz, Mr Marshal and Senator Barbara Zdrojewska submitted proposals during the discussion. Would you like to speak? No. Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Amendment 1 introduces rules on disciplinary proceedings similar to those provided for by ordinary courts in a law governing the status of military judges. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 5]] Amendment 1 was accepted. Amendments 2 and 3 should be voted on together. Amendment 2 aims to increase the minimum amount granted for each year of length of proceedings. Amendment 3 removes from the provisions of the Act a sentence which requires that the amount of the money granted for the duration of the proceedings be adjusted, making it dependent on the applicant's attitude, which may have contributed to the extension of the duration of the proceedings. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, 30 were in favour, 47 against, and three senators abstained. [[Voting No 6]] Amendments 2 and 3 were rejected. Amendment 4 deletes the provision which increases the charge for lodging a complaint for the duration of proceedings from PLN 100 to PLN 200. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, 29 were in favour, 50 against. [[Voting No 7]] Amendment 4 was rejected. Amendments 5 and 12 should be voted on together. Their adoption will rule out voting on Amendments 6, 7, 8, 9 and 11. Amendments 5 and 12 restore the possibility of filing a complaint for referral in order to complete an investigation or investigation and are intended to remove a provision which, at the stage of the appeal proceedings, gives the prosecutor the right to request that he be referred to the investigation or investigation stage and requires the court to waive its judgment and refer the case to the prosecutor. Who's in favour? Who's against it? [[Voice from the room: Za, za.]] [[Voice from the room: Against.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please don't tell yourselves out loud because it's confusing... And now I don't know. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, 37 were in favour, 41 against, two senators abstained. [[Voting No 8]] In view of the results of the vote, amendments 5 and 12 were rejected. Amendment 6 sets out the moment at which the prosecutor may ask the court to refer the case to him in order to complete an investigation or investigation. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 9]] Amendments 7 and 11 should be voted on together. They restore the possibility of lodging a complaint to complete an investigation or investigation. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, 35 were in favour, 45 against. [[Voting No 10]] In view of the results of the vote, amendments 7 and 11 were rejected. Eight now? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] Amendment 8 aims to remove a provision which, at the stage of the appeal procedure, gives the prosecutor the right to request that he be referred to the investigation or investigation stage and requires the court to revoke the judgment and refer the case to the prosecutor. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, 77 were in favour, 2 against. [[Voting No 11]] Amendment 8 was accepted. Amendment 10 aims to clarify the transitional provision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, 73 were in favour, 6 against. [[Voting No 12]] Amendment 10 was accepted. Amendment 13 makes provision for referral at the request of the prosecutor and for a complaint against that transfer enter into force together with the entire law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, 27 were in favour, 52 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 13]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, 56 were in favour, 9 against, 15 senators abstained. [[Voting No 14]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on the system of common courts and certain other laws. We return to the second agenda: the amendment of the Rail Transport Act and some other laws. The Infrastructure Commission presented a draft resolution requesting amendments to the Act; Senate printing No 311 A. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Amendment 1 seeks to ensure that the law is consistent with terminology. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 15]] Amendment accepted. Amendment 2 respects the legislative technique directive, in the light of which its full title and the publication address are quoted in the first reference to the legislative act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 78 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 16]] Amendment 3 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 17]] Amendment 4 indicates that the amount of fees for the activities specified in the Act shall be calculated as the equivalent of the euro in zloty. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 18]] Amendment accepted. Amendment 5 provides the law with terminology consistency. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 77 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 19]] Amendment 6 clarifies that the President of the Railway Transport Office approves the draft price list submitted to him by the infrastructure manager by means of an administrative decision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 78 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 20]] Amendment 6 accepted. Amendment 7 introduces the full name of its own register into the Act The registration of service infrastructure facilities. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 21]] Amendment 8 is more specific. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 76 senators voted in favour, 76 in favour. [[Voting No 22]] Amendment accepted. Amendment 9 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 23]] Amendment 10 seeks to ensure that the provision underlying the imposition of fines is sufficiently precise. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, 80 votes. [[Voting No 24]] Amendment accepted. Amendment 11 clarifies the penalty provision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, 80 votes. [[Voting No 25]] Amendment accepted. Amendment 12 corrects the wrong reference. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 26]] Amendment accepted. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 27]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Rail Transport and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act on the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. The text of the Act is contained in print No 321 and the report of the Commission In print No 321 A. I would very much like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Rafał Ambrozik, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u282	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I would like to present a report on the work of the Committee on Human Rights, the rule of law and the Petitions, which today has examined the draft parliamentary law on the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. The draft law provides for the regulation of the rights and obligations of judges of the Court of Justice, the issue of immunity and disciplinary liability and lays down the manner in which the Court of Justice's professional relations are to be established, the scope and rules. With the new legislative act, the rules on the powers and duties of the judge of the Court will not give rise to any doubt. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please. There you go.]] A separate law will also highlight the role of judges as members of the constitutional body of the State, which is the Court. The Act does not impose any additional burden on the State budget. During the work of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, the President, Professor Michał Seweryński, tabled 11 amendments, all of which were accepted without objection. The amendments come up against what was raised while working in the Sejm. They're relieving the rigors of the bill that the Sejm brought to the Senate. Maybe I'll read those 11 amendments now. Amendment 1. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The 7 words under separate provisions shall be replaced by the General Assembly of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, hereinafter referred to as the General Assembly. Amendment 2, to Article. In paragraph 11, the first paragraph is replaced by the following: 3. In lithium. and the words "or to a separate bank account kept by a bank designated by the President of the Court' shall be added after the word "public'. In lithium. b the following second sentence is added: The Court of Justice may use the funds collected in the bank account after the end of the term of office. Amendment 3. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 is replaced by the following: 1, the President of the Court shall fix an additional period of 30 days for the judge of the Court. The unsuccessful expiry of that period shall be equivalent to the resignation of the Judge of the Court of Justice of the Office. Amendment 4. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: In paragraph 18, paragraph 18 is replaced by the following: 2 in point 2, the words "hereinafter referred to as the General Assembly' shall be deleted. Amendment 5. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 26 in point 2, after the word "General', the words "After consulting the First President of the Supreme Court' shall be added. Amendment 6. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 27 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 is replaced by the following: The President of the Court shall, by drawing a draw, appoint the Judge of the Court of Justice, hereinafter referred to as the Disciplinary Advocate; after paragraph 1. 1. the following paragraph shall be added: 1a as follows: The disciplinary officer shall take steps to provide a preliminary explanation of the circumstances necessary to determine the seriousness of the offence and shall hear the Judge concerned by the notification referred to in Article. 26, unless it is not possible for the Judge of the Court to provide an explanation; and in paragraph 2. 2 the terms of the procedure referred to in paragraph 2. 1.' shall be replaced by the words "actions referred to in paragraph." 1a, 1a, 1a, 1a, 1a, 1a, 1a, 1a, 1a, 1a, 1a, 1a, 1a, 1a, 1a, 1a, 1a, 1a, 1a, 1a, 1a, 1a, 1a, 1a, 1a, 1a, 1a, 1a, 1a, 1a, 1a, 1a, 1a, 1a, 1a, 1a. Amendment 7. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 33 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 is replaced by the following: "The Judge of the Court at rest shall not be a member of a political party, a trade union or a public activity incompatible with the principles of the independence of the courts and the independence of the judges; however, he shall retain the right to speak in public matters and paragraph 1. The Judge of the Court of Justice shall, at rest, act in accordance with the Code of Ethics of the Judge of the Constitutional Tribunal and maintain the dignity of the Judge of the Court of Justice at rest. Amendment 8. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 33 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 is replaced by the following: "The Judge of the Court of Justice at rest may not take additional employment, except as teaching or scientific staff, to a total extent not exceeding the full working time of the staff employed in such a capacity.' Amendment 9. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 33 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 is replaced by the following: "The Judge of the Court of Justice at rest may not take any other occupation, whether economic or non-profit-making, which would undermine the dignity of the Judge of the Court of Justice at rest.' Amendment 10. In Annex 3 to the Act, in Part III of the model declaration in point 4, in the fourth sentence, the words "more than" shall be added after the words "not" in the fourth sentence. Amendment 11. In Annex 3 to the Act, references 1 and 2 are deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u283	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator... [[About the formal issue.]] It's a formal conclusion, isn't it?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u284	Mr. Marshal, on a formal matter. The first two copies, the first two prints, were just in our hands. I'm filing for a half-hour break so everyone can get one of these. These are the two fresh copies that were brought by me at the moment. There were no others, colleagues volunteered and couldn't get copies. [[If I could answer... those prints were available an hour and a half ago.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u285	Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u286	Same thing. I was just there, and I checked. Oh, I just got a print right now. [[Voice from the room: Yes, we here too.]] But please give us the opportunity to get acquainted with these prints. It was introduced 20 minutes ago. I don't know that bill. [[Mr. Senator says these prints...]] Give me half an hour... [[I had prints an hour and a half ago.]] I'm asking for a half-hour break, too, so you can read these prints. It's a scandalous process.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u287	Okay, is this the club's request? [[Yeah, it's an application for a half-hour break.]] Or is it a Krakow trade fair? I'm looking at Senator Klich. Would it be okay if we took a break until 8:00? Twenty-one minutes to get even by 8:00. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Half an hour.]] [[Half an hour, Mr. Marshal.]] Good. I'm declaring a recess until 8:10 p.m. [[Thank you very much.]] [[Adjournment from 19 minutes 40 to 20 minutes 13]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u288	I'm reopening the session. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Rafał Ambrozik. You've already presented the report, haven't you? [[Yes, I have submitted a report.]] Oh, good. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Florek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u289	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr Senator, rapporteur! Art. Article 33 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The Act on the Status of Judge of the Constitutional Tribunal: The Judge of the Tribunal at rest shall not be a member of a political party, a trade union or a public activity incompatible with the principles of the independence of the courts and the independence of the judges and shall be obliged to maintain the dignity of the status of Judge of the Court at rest. And now I'm going to quote the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 3 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland: The judges of the Constitutional Tribunal during the period of office must not belong to a political party, trade union or conduct public activity incompatible with the principles of independence of courts and independence of judges. I stress: during the period of office. This is the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. Hence my question. Did you discuss at the committee meeting... I'm particularly interested in this provision, Art. Article 33 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, that he is incompatible with the constitution, because if he were in agreement, it would not be in the constitution of such a provision that says that only during the period of taking a position. So this is where you go out of range. Unless... But the constitution can't be changed at this time. Therefore, I ask: have you discussed, have you discussed, that this is an unconstitutional provision?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u290	Thank you very much. [[No, it wasn't on the committee.]] Wait a minute. [[I mean, the issue of this unconstitutionality...]] But, Senator, wait a minute, because I want to group questions, maybe there'll be a lot of them. Three people, and you answer. Mr. Senator Klich. You're welcome. [[Mr. Marshal, I signed up to speak...]] To the question? No. Good. Senator Rybicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u291	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator, this is the fifth amendment to the Constitutional Court Act. The public opinion was tired of the Court's issue. If at least there was some meaningful effect in the form of a good, thought-out legal act... And that's not what this amendment is. I would like to ask why the opinions addressed to the Sejm and the Senate by the Supreme Court, the National Judicial Council, the Supreme Bar Council and many other institutions and experts have not been taken into account. I ask, because as far as the quality of this law is concerned, it is possible, by pointing out concrete examples, to show its unconstitutionality, simply poor quality. For example, reference is made to the provisions of a non-existent legal act, which is the Code of Ethics for Judges of the Court. Why didn't the committee take into account the opinions of the highest legal authorities in Poland?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u292	Are there any more questions for the senator? [[Yes.]] Senator Zientarski. You're welcome. And then the senator will answer. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u293	This may not be a real question for you, but I will ask you this: is it not surprising that the Act of a systemic nature, the Court on which the laws have always been dealt with together with the Legislative Commission, in this case only in the Committee on Human Rights? What kind of... Maybe like this.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u294	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, please answer the questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u295	Maybe I'll answer Senator Zientarski's question first. Mr Senator, this question really goes beyond my role as rapporteur for the committee, so I would prefer not to respond to it. As regards the first question, I can say that some of the comments have been taken into account. This law has been rationalised in some way and its character has been relaxed. Of course, some reservations have been taken into account, and some have not, because this is just an opinion. We can refer to it when it comes to us, the senators, as we wish, whether we have reservations or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u296	Thank you. Are there any more questions for the Senator rapporteur? You're welcome, Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u297	Mr. Marshal, I have a question for you... [[But right now, I'm...]] ...on a formal matter. There's no government representative. Will a government representative be there? [[It won't.]] It won't. So there won't be any questions for a government representative?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u298	If you're asking me a question, Mr. Marshal, I'll answer. I invited a representative or the President of the Constitutional Tribunal and a representative of the Ministry. It's a government project, there's no government position in this... [[Voice from the room: This is a parliamentary project.]] This is, of course, a parliamentary project, I'm sorry, a slip of the tongue. There's no government position, we don't have to listen to government positions. But you're running into the future, Mr. Marshal, and so far there are questions... I'm just answering... [[Good.]] [[Voice from the hall: Is there anyone from the Seym?]] Do you have a question for the senator? [[I have a question for the senator.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u299	I wanted to know if I could address the questions to a government representative. I understand he's not here. I will therefore direct all questions to the senator. Senator, in this law, it is basically a repetition of what is in the Constitutional Court Act. Even if the Court is composed - I'm sorry, I'm sorry. - I'm sorry. - I'm sorry. 2 of the 15 Judges that the term of office of the Judge lasts 9 years, in Article. 3 is similar, as is the case in Article. 4 on vows, etc. These are the general provisions. Question: why does this law repeat those rules that are already there? Does he therefore in some way repeal those provisions? [[Sir... may I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u300	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u301	Mr. Marshal, this was not the subject of the committee's deliberations. As far as this question is concerned, I would say that the introduction of certain repetitions is necessary for the sake of some transparency as regards the reading of the law by people, simply by citizens. Moreover, similar repetitions were made in the Act of June of the previous year, which was adopted by the then government and the then majority in the Senate. Thus, these reservations could also be raised against the previous majority.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u302	Senator Rybicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u303	Thank you. Mr. Senator, I have a specific question about the article. Article 33 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 a project which prohibits retiring judges from taking additional employment, excluding teaching classes, a question about the right of this provision. After all, he also eliminates e.g. the possibility that people with such great scientific or educational achievements will sit in bodies of an international nature in which they could represent Poland and serve not only the law, but also indirectly Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u304	It is possible to sit in international tribunals. That's enough, according to the article. 36 of this bill, relinquish the status of a retired judge... [[Yeah, but...]] Well, Mr. Senator, the budget of the state bears high costs in keeping the judges of the Court at rest. It's a salary of over 15,000 zlotys a month, so... [[Mr. Senator, ad vocem. But it might be in the interest of Poland that a prominent Polish scholar should sit in an international institution and serve indirectly the interests of Poland.]] This law does not limit this possibility.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u305	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Florek is asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u306	Thank you. Mr. Senator, I'll quote the article. 7: The Judge of the Court shall act in accordance with the Code of Ethics of the Judge of the Constitutional Tribunal adopted on the basis of separate provisions. And art. Article 33 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2: The Judge of the Constitutional Tribunal shall, at rest, act in accordance with the Code of Ethics of the Judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. How does that apply to art? The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland, according to which judges of the Constitutional Tribunal in the exercise of their office are independent and subject only to the Constitution? Besides, what will be the separate provisions? What will be in them when they are passed, and who will approve them? Because there's nothing here about it. It's just that there'll be separate regulations. These separate provisions that are incompatible with the main principles of the Constitution...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u307	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u308	Senator, this was not the subject of work and questions during the committee meeting. Rules on the Code of Ethics of Judges The Court will be introduced in the Law on the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Court, which is currently being examined in the Sejm. Just like the introductory provisions. The same was true of the implementation of the Codes, such as the Penal Code of the sixty-nineth. All codes had introductory provisions which were adopted after the main law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u309	Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u310	Mr. Senator, what code are you talking about? Penalty in 1969? Is this the gentleman you're referring to?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u311	Code of conduct, civil code... All these codes had introductory provisions. [[But it's the 1969 code?]] Yeah.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u312	Senator Florek. He was already... This is Senator Grabowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u313	Thank you, Mr. Marshal! Senator rapporteur, I have two questions for Senator Flork. I am a layman when it comes to appointing and dismissing judges or bringing judges to rest. Could you explain to me, in the light of your knowledge, whether the resting state is a constant state for the judge? Can such a judge be later, under special circumstances, dismissed from this state of rest? This may also be the answer to Senator Flork's distressing doubts about the apoliticality of the judges. If I'm wrong, correct it. And the second question concerns a committee meeting. We don't have a government representative here... Was there a representative of the government at the committee meeting, and if so, what was his position? on the amendments tabled by the committee recommended by the committee? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u314	You're welcome, Senator, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u315	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. During the committee's work, there was no government representative. As regards the loss of the status of retired judge of the Court, this is laid down in Article. 36 of this bill. There are three conditions: the waiver by a judge of the Court of Justice of his retirement status; the conviction of a judge of the Court of Justice at rest by a final judgment of the court for an intentional offence prosecuted by a public charge or a deliberate tax offence; the final disciplinary decision to deprive a judge of that status at rest.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u316	Thank you very much. Senator Rybicki, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u317	Thank you. Mr. Senator, have there been votes during the committee's work that would indicate that some of the provisions of the bill are over-exploiting the balance between the executive and the judiciary, even to the extent that the Attorney General, in some cooperation with the President, has the right to make a disciplinary request concerning the judge of the Constitutional Tribunal? Isn't that the excessive influence of the executive authority on the judiciary? [[We have softened this recipe. May I? I'm sorry.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u318	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u319	Mr. Senator, we have eased this provision, we have made a provision here for the need to consult the first Supreme Court President. It will help the president make a decision on a matter that was within your question. It's not... The executive authority doesn't usurp the right to make decisions. The President does not rule on the opening of proceedings, he does not take that decision.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u320	Already, Mr. Senator? [[Yes, thank you.]] Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? Senator Florek, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u321	It's an art then. 5, which states that the service relationship of the Judge of the Court shall be established after the taking of the oath and that the judge shall be made immediately after the taking of the oath, etc. Well, if he's making a vow, what happens if the president doesn't take the vow? Did you discuss this matter?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u322	No, Mr. Senator. This was not the subject of the committee's deliberations. There were no questions about this issue.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u323	Are there any more questions? Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u324	Mr. Senator! I have a question about art, too. 5, which says that the service relationship of the judge of the Court is established after the taking of the oath. The judge shall, upon taking the oath, be placed immediately at the Court for the purpose of taking up his duties and the President shall assign him cases and create the conditions for the performance of his duties. In connection with this article, I would like to ask what is going on here. Why is this article moving in, or can you explain it to me? [[It wasn't touched during the work...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u325	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u326	I'm sorry. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. This was not discussed during the committee's work, but the rule seems clear: the judge, after taking the oath, should take immediate responsibility. There can't be a situation where well-paid judges... [[They're not working.]] They're not working.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u327	Mr. Marshal Borusewicz is still asking questions, isn't he? [[Yeah, yeah.]] You're welcome, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u328	Is this the situation which is currently in the Court, where three persons designated by the Sejm are not in the judiciary? Is that what this is about?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u329	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u330	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal, it's not from this bill, it's conjecture, so I can't respond to them. [[So maybe that's not what this is about?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u331	Are there any more questions for the Senator of the rapporteur? Mr. Marshal? [[I, of course, have questions...]] You're welcome. [[But I'd have questions for the minister, and the minister's not here.]] It's not a government project, but I understand... Are there any more questions? No. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was introduced by Members. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Klich. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u332	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! We have just heard the Senator rapporteur's answers, most of which sounded the same: no, the committee did not consider the matter, it did not deal with the problem. For the fifth time, however, we are considering the law relating to the functioning of the Constitutional Tribunal, the fundamental law for the Polish legal order, the key law as regards compliance and the way in which... the interpretation of what is in accordance with the Constitution and what is not in conformity with the Constitution is not. This bill goes very far. This law also regulates matters which have never been governed by ordinary legislation, which are governed directly by the Constitution, and thus enters into this area, which the Constitution defines very unambiguously. The Act raises our serious concern also because it is being processed in this way and in the evening. If it weren't for a break, we wouldn't have time to get to know senate prints, and the only thing we could know as senators is smudges from the Seym debate. This law has two fundamental shortcomings that I would like to stress. I call it the Gun Act, because it kind of puts a gun to the head of the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, threatening them with disciplinary sanctions under different circumstances. This has not yet been the case for disciplinary sanctions to be recorded in the bill. This has not yet been the case, that sanctions are an instrument of pressure, of which I am sure. For judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. The second fundamental flaw in the law is that it deprives former judges of the Constitutional Tribunal of parts of public rights. He forbids them to take a stand on public matters that they previously dealt with. It's a little bit like a retired carpenter's ban on talking about carpentry, a retired doctor's ban on talking about medical matters, and a retired senator's ban on talking about public issues. These are two serious shortcomings of the bill, which make it not only in my opinion, but also in the assessment of my colleagues from the Civic Platform Club, this law should be rejected by the High House. Putting a gun on the head of the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, restricting their powers in public matters... We believe that it is written for specific persons, for present judges of the Constitutional Tribunal or for those who, like Professor Stępień or Professor Zoll, speak in public matters and have previously held their offices. It cannot be that the judge of the Constitutional Court, who has ceased to be a judge, is prohibited from speaking in public matters. It cannot be that the ordinary law limits the powers of a judge enshrined in the Constitution. I therefore request that the bill be rejected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u333	Thank you very much. Are you filing a formal motion? You're making a motion for that? I don't have it in writing yet. [[It doesn't have to be.]] What do you mean he doesn't have to? Well... [[Mr. Marshal, I'm calling.]] And when we do... Sorry. Excuse me. Are you reporting or not? At the last minute, you filed a motion to reject the bill. - Yeah? - Mm-hmm. This is the conclusion... [[This is not a formal motion to vote right now, Mr. Marshal. This is a motion for us to vote against the bill at the time of the vote on the bill.]] Senator, this is a legislative proposal. It's a conclusion, as you know. If you don't know it, I'm saying it. It has to be written. That's not a conclusion so far. Thank you very much. Senator Libicki, please. [[Mr. Marshal, I have a formal motion.]] But maybe we should let the senator... What's your formal conclusion?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u334	Mr. Marshal, I've actually discovered myself. We're playing open cards here. There are no secrets here. On the basis of the article. 48 (1) (a) 2 (6) of the Regulation... [[I need to see this. I don't know the rules by heart.]] You're welcome... [[I'm sorry. Which article?]] Art. 48 (1) (a) 2 (6). [[A referral to the committee?]] A referral, yes, yes... [[Good. Well...]] I move that the bill be referred to the Legislative Commission.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-15-senat-30-1.u335	Okay, Mr. Senator, because I was... [[Just one more... one more sentence...]] ...prepared for this... [[Exactly... because I'm not hiding it...]] Since there's no quorum, I'm announcing a recess by 10:00 tomorrow. Thank you very much. [[Thank you.]] [[Voice from the room: Uh-huh.]] [[Adjournment at the meeting at 20 minutes 38]]
