ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u1	I open the 12th session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I hereby appoint Senator Robert Dowhan and Senator Alexander Swede as the secretaries of the sitting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Alexander Swed. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, Professor Ryszard Bender, Senator II, VI and VII of his term of office died on 24 February 2016. He was a member of the Constitutional Commission, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Chairman of the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad. I ask you to stand up and celebrate a minute of the silence of Senator Richard Bender's memory. [[Everybody up.]] [[A moment of silence]] [[Give him eternal rest, Lord.]] [[The gathered answer, "Let eternal light shine upon him." May he rest in eternal peace. Amen.]] Thank you very much. High Senate, I inform you that in the supplementary elections to the Senate of the Republic of Poland held on 6 March 2016 in the Podlaskie Voivodeship in Voivodeship No. 59, Senator Anna Maria Anders was elected. [[Applause]] The senator will take the senator's oath before proceeding. The Senator's pledge rate is included in the article. Article 104 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 2 Constitution of the Republic of Poland. Let me remind you that according to the article. Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 Senate Rules of Procedure Senators take a vow in such a way that when they read the rota of the vow, they pronounce the word "I pledge." The vows can be made with the addition of words, so help me God. I ask the senator to approach the president's table in order to take a senator's oath. Everyone, please rise. [[Everybody up.]] Reading, Senator, roll of vows. I solemnly vow to do my duty to the Nation, to safeguard the sovereignty and interests of the State, to do everything for the welfare of the Homeland and the welfare of citizens, to observe the Constitution and other rights of the Republic of Poland. I'm asking the senator to take the oath.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u2	I promise. So help me God.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u3	I state that Senator Anna Maria Anders has taken a vow. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that at its 12th meeting on 25 February 2016 the Sejm adopted all the amendments of the Senate to the 2016 budget law and the Law on the re-use of public sector information. In the absence of any objections to the minutes of the eighth meeting, I declare that the minutes of this meeting have been adopted. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the ninth Senate meeting, in accordance with the Senate Rules of Procedure, are prepared to be made available to the senators. If no one of your senators raises objections to it, it will be adopted at the next sitting. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose to supplement the agenda with a point: Act amending the Act on one-off allowance for certain pensioners, pensioners and persons receiving pre-retirement benefits, pre-retirement benefits, bridge pensions or teacher compensation benefits in 2016. and consider it as item five of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? I don't see any calls. I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the 12th meeting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of the IXth term of office. High Izbo, if the Sejm adopts a parallel act amending the Payment Act under direct support schemes and certain other acts, the agenda of the current Senate meeting may be supplemented by this law. In addition, I should like to inform you that today around 3 p.m., a recess will be ordered until 5 p.m. 45, during which a meeting of the Senate committee chairmen will be held on the current work of the committee. Tomorrow, we will begin the session at 11:00 p.m. We proceed with the examination of the first item of the agenda: the law on amending the law of the family code and caring. The text of the Act is contained in print No 89 and the report of the Commission In print No 89 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Antoni Szymański, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u4	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! On behalf of the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, I have the honour to report on the work on the revision of the Family and Welfare Code. It is the following. During the meeting of the joint committees, Mr Patryk Jak, who answered many questions related to the amendment, presented the purpose of the changes in the family and caring code. There has been a wide discussion about an article that amends the family code and protects, but rather what should be said and emphasized complements it. These are not changes across the current family and caring code, but complementing it with some provisions to ensure that minors are not taken away and placed in foster care because of the difficult material situation of biological parents. All senators agreed with the aim of statutory amendments. There was no doubt that this intention of the government was the right intention. There have been questions about how many cases there are. The government's information was that, on the one hand, we have a lot of information in the media about such cases, that many NGOs that monitor this situation point to a number of situations where children are hastily taken away from their families because of the difficult economic situation... According to the statistics of the Ministry of Justice, in dozens of cases, about 50 cases this was a motive for the court to issue a decision to place the child in foster care. The government has proposed two laws. §1 aims to ensure that the court which decides to place the child in foster care is first obliged to take advantage of the measures referred to in the family and caring code, from several articles of the family code, which say, among others. the possibility of exercising probation if the situation in the family is incorrect and the parent's parental authority is limited. It also points to the obligation to use all forms of social assistance it offers, in particular material, legal, social assistance, so that placing children in foster care is indeed deeply justified and preceded by the work of, among others, a curator or a social worker and the provision of assistance in order to eliminate these situations. As I said about intentions, there was no doubt about the idea of these changes. The discussion that followed and the amendments that had emerged concerned whether it was correct to oblige the court to consider all forms of social assistance at its disposal. It has been pointed out that in such a situation it may make the decision very difficult for the court to decide, to extend everything very much, which, in special situations, will make it difficult to make decisions, which in turn can harm the child's well-being. The question has also been considered. 2, which prohibits direct taking a child away for material reasons in situations where biological parents do not agree. This issue was discussed in the course of a very long discussion, but the senators voted that the amendment should be adopted without amendments. So much for the report from the committee meeting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u5	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Jackowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. In fact, I don't know who to address my question, I'm going to ask it to the Senator of the rapporteur. I was surprised by the comments made by our Legislative Office in paragraph III of the Act, because after discussing the work on the Law, the following statement was made: "The Law does not raise any substantive legislative objections. What is the meaning of the word "basic"? Is it waking up or not waking up? 'Cause I admit, I'm surprised to hear the Legal Bureau's statement in the opinion on the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u7	The Legislative Office was present during the deliberations of the two joint committees and did not object to the law. [[But basically, or...]] It did not object to the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u8	Thank you very much. Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u9	Mr. Chairman... [[Voice from the room: Can't hear...]] And now... [[Voice from the room: Oh, that's better.]] I don't know why it's just... Indeed, from time to time in the media, we hear or read that children are being taken from their families because of poverty. But as far as I know, poverty never goes alone. Never. And we're writing here about a situation where poverty is the sole reason to take the baby. Well, tell me whether the Minister, when he informed the committee at the meeting, said that the 50 cases cited were situations where poverty was indeed the sole reason for taking the child or one of the accompanying reasons. What were the situations?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u10	As I said, the information that was presented at the committee meeting and which also appeared during the discussion was that on the one hand there was information in the media, widely described and discussed, and on the other hand NGOs, e.g. The spokesperson for parents' rights is talking about 700 cases that have been reported to these organisations and, in their opinion, the main cause... This is also included in the information which was addressed to the petition committee, inter alia, by the Ministry. And the Minister also said that the ministry's statistics show that about 50 cases have been found in which this is precisely the reason... I'm talking about what arguments were made during the committee meeting because I'm obliged to do so.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u11	Thank you very much. [[Mr. Marshal, may I ask you a question?]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u12	If I understand this correctly, Mr President, this is the situation. It's always judged. In which poverty was the main cause, but not the sole cause, not the only one.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u13	I understood the Minister's statement about these 50 cases so that it was the only reason he wouldn't have a child in statistics. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u14	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u15	Thank you, Mr President. Senator rapporteur, you have mentioned a broad, full support for the noble idea of the government. And has the committee considered the balance between the noble idea and the realization opportunities, especially the budget of social assistance in municipalities? I am also thinking of an option for the support of curators, which you represent very well not only as a senator. What is the perspective, also in view of the fact that there is no supply of family homes at the moment, so one of the elements of foster care? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u16	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator. [[The question will be to the government if you can't answer me...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u17	I am obliged to respond to what happened during the two-hour committee meeting. I must say, Senator, that it was not considered so widely in such a context, whether there are family assistants in every county, whether any forms of assistance are really and are they sufficient. I think this discussion awaits us in the context of the Act on foster care, the report will in some time enter the Senate and we will talk about it. I'm sure there were a lot of senators talking about this at the committee meeting. We have a very serious problem with the huge number of children who are in foster care. That's almost 1%. Polish children raised outside the biological family. 1% Polish children, i.e. about... There are various data here, because from the family ministry we received information as a family commission that it is about 66 thousand children, and from the information of the CSO it appears that it is 10,000 more children. But regardless of who's right, it's almost 1%. Polish children who are in foster care, which means that we should do everything to reduce this number. Of course, we are aware that today we are talking in particular about a material recital and that everything must be done to rule out this recital, through proper, reliable assistance, in particular from social assistance, so that children are not placed in foster care for this reason.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u18	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Żaryn. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u19	Mr. Marshal! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have a question similar to Senator Augustine's question, but a little more elaborate. Namely whether statistics are sufficient tools - Did you say that? - Yes. In order to establish de facto the boundaries between those cases where children have been taken away for social reasons and those where children are staying in old childhood homes, or in another form of foster family for reasons, can one say, from such a situational boundary? I mean specifically that according to statistics it is evident that biological orphanage is not a common phenomenon, but social orphanage, for example. Children from crime families. I am talking about this because there is an attempt to interpret the phenomenon that we are talking about today, in such a way that de facto social reasons were not the cause of the transfer of children from biological families, but just the poor ethical condition of the parental environment. Can we, on the basis of statistics? - Did you say that? - Yes. To gain some knowledge that brings us closer to the question to what extent is this, however, a common phenomenon involving statistics on social orphanage? It is it that is a worrying phenomenon in Poland, not biological orphanage, but social orphanage, and the result is that there are children outside biological families.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u20	Mr. Senator, if we're talking about data... I have in front of me data prepared on the basis of information from the Central Statistical Office, which indicates that in 1989 just over 8 children out of 1 000 were in foster care and in 2011 13.1 were in foster care. So this number is not decreasing, but increasing, even though the number of children in Poland is decreasing radically. During the 25 years mentioned, 1989 and 2011, the number of children decreased by 40%. And it would seem that the number of children in foster care should at least be reduced. I'm only talking about this because it's important to stress that we have a very disturbing situation here, that it needs to be very... That's something to consider. I'm sure what you're talking about, but what wasn't the main trend of the joint committee's deliberations, which is that there are very different reasons, and often the material reason is that the family's helplessness, educational inability, alcoholism, drug addiction and so on... So if we were to combine what we are talking about with other factors, it would turn out that there is, of course, much more. Today we are talking mainly about eliminating situations that, according to the figures given by the Ministry, are not much. I remember that in the last term of office, Deputy Minister Seredin spoke from the Seym Court about 800 such cases. So... Well, these are some numbers and it's worth wondering what to do with all this. This is what the amendment and the two articles that I have presented and which I believe Minister Jak will be presenting. And, as I say, the committee has advocated that these legal solutions should be adopted. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u21	Thank you very much. Senator Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u22	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for you. Because poverty is also malnutrition and diseases, there are extreme cases when a child is developing incorrectly. Then, according to the new law, will there also be a blockage that will not be possible to pick up such a child?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u23	In §1 the words You're right, Senator. With comprehensive help and very strong support... But indeed, in §2 it is said that there is no way to prevent a child from a family when the sole reason is the material situation of the family, and parents do not express such consent. So there's a blocking solution here.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u24	Thank you very much. Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u25	Mr. Marshal! Mr Senator, rapporteur! I'm not a member of the committee, but I got a dozen e-mails on this case, and I'd like to know... Because the main point here is not to take the child away for reasons solely related to subjective assessment of the danger of his health, without the guilt of his parents. And in these e-mails there are two suggestions for the article. 1123 §1 as amended by Article 1123 (1). 1 of the bill discussed here. I mean, what I think the rapporteur has already indicated here, namely that... I quote: "The placing of a child in foster care can only happen if the other measures provided for in Article used previously. 109 §2 (1) (4) or all forms of assistance to the parents of the child... etc. The point is, it should be here, not or, and it should be here, and it should be... I think you've already tried to explain that. I would like to know if this was discussed, just what is the meaning of the or Or... or... and... and... and... and... In addition, the following article deals with a life or health hazard. The suggestions of people who emailed me were that there would be a direct threat to life or health. Were the two cases presented here discussed at the committee meeting? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u26	These two issues were discussed at the committee meeting, which I present as rapporteur at the moment, but were also discussed at the committee meeting yesterday. Because what you're talking about is those e-mails that I think all the senators have received... They consisted of a petition, they reached the Senate office with petitions signed by almost 5,000 people, heading towards which you have just presented. That's in the article. 1 was not separated, but combined... so that there would be a cumulative condition for the court to take the decision referred to here. So swapping the word "or" into "and" or, in any case, making it such a coherence to make it a cumulative condition. At the meeting of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, this issue was also discussed and an amendment was also tabled. It was argued that it would be too much... that it would impose on the court, so to speak, for a strong corset with regard to decision-making in individual very difficult situations, which would make it difficult to make decisions. This does not have to be beneficial when it comes to solving the problem. As I say, the amendment was rejected by the joint committees. She appeared in petitions that entered the Senate. At the meeting of the joint committees, consideration was also given to what you are talking about, i.e. adding the word "direct." This was also done at the meeting of the petition committee. The rapporteur, Senator Staron, will be explaining this to us in a moment. All I can say is that this was considered at the joint committee meeting, and I will draw attention to the fact that this is a serious threat to the child's well-being, in particular the danger of his life and health. So it would be a repetition of certain adjectives, which, according to the joint committee, would be inappropriate, because it would be complicated and not solve anything. By the word "serious" it is very clearly marked. So that such a change is unnecessary. In short, I will say that the problem was considered at meetings of various committees. I'm sure we'll have information on this from the petition committee's representative in a moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u27	Thank you. Senator Jarosław Duda.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u28	Mr. Senator, I would like to clarify something and ask if you share a certain view of whether this was mentioned at the committee meeting. In §1 the matter was also referred to We are talking about all forms of aid. However, we know very well that the condition of individual municipalities, powiats and all individuals responsible for crisis support varies. Would you share the view that there is a record here that says that these are available forms that help a child? Did she mention that? Would you mind referring to that?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u29	I would like to answer this question as rapporteur for the committee, because that is my role at the moment. Such an amendment has been tabled. The argument was that if there is a record of all forms of aid that are mentioned in the Replacement Care Act... Sometimes it would be impossible by social assistance in a given county, because there are not every county, I would say, available all forms of assistance. For example, a family assistant does not work everywhere. The author of the amendment said that there would be a problem here, because a court wishing to do so will receive a reply from social assistance that is impossible. This will be a very difficult situation for the court, because not all mentioned... such an amendment was complex and, as I said, was discussed. The Commission rejected the amendment. [[May I ask you a question, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u30	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u31	Thank you very much. The law uses the concept of "against the will of parents," which may suggest and, in my opinion, suggests... Does the Senator rapporteur share the view that it relieves parents of their responsibility for the child? It relieves them of their responsibility in the sense that there may be poverty, you may not be active, you may not be looking for work, and the child will not be taken away from parents anyway, because they will not express that will. We discussed that, too. I know the senator's close. Can you confirm that? What's the parole officer's role then? How can we respond to a situation that may be a life-threatening situation? What can be done then?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u32	I will speak personally in the discussion. Did such questions arise during the discussions at the joint committee meeting? This issue has been considered in such a context that the will of a parent or parents who have caused this difficult situation and who are not trying to correct it will be a decisive factor in the fact that the court will not be able to make certain decisions. The various parties to this were considered and discussed. The representatives of the Ministry of Justice also took the floor on this matter and presented their views. This was the subject of discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u33	Thank you. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u34	(PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. The change in §1 does not concern situations where, let's call it, in a normal way, the child is placed in foster care, but above all extreme situations, sudden situations, when the child's well-being, in particular life or health, is at risk. Were there representatives of associations representing social workers at the committee meeting and what was their opinion? That's the first question. And the second question is this: have you discussed the issue of a certain decision-making paralysis that could cause this provision? The point is that social workers will be afraid to intervene effectively at the pre-trial stage, for example. Put the child in emergency care when an employee can do so in the presence of a police officer. Have you considered this? What were the opinions on this subject?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u35	Such a discussion took place, but it concerned complications in the decision-making of the court, not complications in the context of such actions by social workers. As I recall, there were no representatives of social workers' associations at the joint committee meetings.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u36	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u37	Does the amendment, which concerns a government project, in particular at the point introducing an absolute ban on the placing of a child in foster care, unless there is parental consent, interfere with the article. 72 constitutions, which are state authorities, but also to all citizens in Poland gives the right to protect the welfare of the child, and does not condition this with the consent of parents? Thus, the State has ruled that, where the welfare of the child, including the economic one, is at risk, this obligation is on the State and on other citizens, even outside the family. It's one thing. And the second question. Is this the case at the committee's meeting? Because we're talking about cases, about exceptions, about special situations, including pathological situations. After the introduction of the 500+ programme, there will be sucking on having a child, regardless of the economic situation, in order to receive this educational benefit, but it must be borne in mind that the provision of education does not allow the child to be kept, is only half of the means necessary to provide him with a minimum of social protection?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u38	Mr. Senator, these are very interesting and important questions about this matter, but they have not been asked. Neither the constitutional issue you are talking about, nor the other question, is how this will work in the context of the 500+ programme, what the possible effects or effects you are referring to will not be discussed by the joint committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u39	I don't see any more requests for questioning. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. There's a Secretary of State in the Ministry of Justice, Minister Jak. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Patrick Jak: Yes.]] I ask the Minister to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u40	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! We are facing a very serious problem, namely the problem of taking children, taking children because of poverty. During the preliminary discussion, many questions were asked about the scale of the problem. That is why I would like, High Senate, to provide information, to highlight the data available to the Ministry of Justice. For the first time in 2015, we introduced an obligation to report courts that decide to take a child from a biological family, including a strong detail, if they do so solely because of poverty. In 2015, such cases when the child was taken only I stress: only because of poverty, we had more than 50. I want, High Senate, to stress that the situation when a child is taken and poverty is an important reason Not the only one, but the important one is much more, a dozen, several dozen times more. Therefore, we have started to amend the family and caring code, because, in our view, according to the constitutional principle of subsidiarity, the state should not perform tasks that can be carried out more effectively, High Senate, by smaller communities of citizens, in this case by the basic social cell, which is the family. The powers of the public authorities should be built in compliance with the subjectivity and autonomy of family life protected under Article. 47 and 48 Constitution of the Republic of Poland. Any interference of public authority in family life and parental authority should be provided for in the Act and carried out solely on the basis of a final judgment of the court. And there's something else that's extremely important. High Senate, we would like to point out that we are narrowing down the possibilities for interpretation of the court to take children. Until now, according to §109 k.r.i.o. there is a child's welfare category, a quite large category that allows intervention to be taken away from the child. And we want to make it more specific by adding to the term "the child's good" to the definition of "a serious threat," so that there is a serious threat to the child's well-being, that is, we want to narrow it down. In addition, we propose entering the term "life or health threats," which is also a very large term "child's well-being," we want to narrow down the definition of "life or health threats," just so that we do not use §109 k.r.i.o. to take children when there really aren't enough reasons and reasons for it. This amendment, High Senate, is extremely important, because unfortunately, there are still situations where the child is taken against the will of his parents only because of poverty. As a Polish country, we need to solve this problem urgently. You mentioned Senators here about foster care. It comes to this situation that when a child is taken from a biological family because of poverty and is transferred to foster care, there, as part of the foster care, the Polish state allocates over PLN 2 000 200 to this child, i.e. if these funds were to be passed on to the biological family, the condition would disappear, High Senate. Therefore, this activity of the state was absolutely logical in our assessment. That is why we are taking the first step towards ordering this situation and saying clearly, firmly and loudly: we do not agree to take children out because of poverty, and the role of the state is primarily, first of all, a supporting role and then a repressive role. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u41	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute's request to a government representative related to the item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Duda, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u42	Minister, you were talking about statistics. Of course, you have different statistics, because when I asked about it at one of the committee meetings, the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy did not give this significant number of 50 cases forbidding a child because of poverty, it just said that it could have been 2, 3 cases. But I suspect that this data needs to be synchronized, and then there will be some common information. I'd like to ask you something else. Are you familiar with the statistics, whether the ministry was leading, leading or conducting statistics about children who were not placed in foster care, in some kind of foster care, and there was a tragedy? These situations have happened, we know them from previous years. This is always very interesting, how sad for the media to be able to publicize such matters. And it's not about the media getting food out of it, because these are the biggest tragedies. The loss of health or life and such situations have taken place in previous years. Do you have such statistics and if not, will you keep statistics based on material collected in an environmental interview conducted by a social worker as part of police intervention in a situation where the child is beaten? Will such data be available in the near future? Or are they already here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u43	Thank you kindly. Dear Senator, as far as the first part of your speech is concerned, the data I was talking about is objective, i.e. they are the result of the reports that the courts report to us each year, and they enter the category of judgments. So that this data is autonomous information from all courts in Poland. As far as the second issue is concerned, the law on anti-violence in the family is leading here and the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy is responsible. I know it's the ministry that's running these statistics, which, by the way, requires the Ministry to report on the implementation of the Anti-violence Act every year. I understand the senator's intentions. Mr. Senator wants us to apologize for the colloquialism, not to fire the baby with a bath, and not to lead to this... The point is that if we're actually dealing with pathology, we can take the baby away. I would like to say, Mr. Senator, that I have studied a number of similar cases over the last few months, and we have a study of the Justice Institute, which has examined many cases of taking children away from parents for various reasons. Well, let's not hide, pathology occurs and the Polish state must have the right tools to act. That's why I was an opponent, for example. entering a time limit for the immediate threat that has arisen, because I believe that the introduction of this time limit could limit the freedom of the courts to rule in such situations where the child really needs to be taken away, although there is no immediate danger of life, but for example. Two parents are regularly drunk. I believe that in such situations the Polish state should take care of the welfare of the child. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u44	Thank you. Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u45	There's something else I'd like to ask the Minister. I understand that these reports show that in 2015 there were about 50 cases of judgments according to which for economic reasons... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Patrick Like: Exclusively.]] Only. Please tell me, after some analysis, I don't know, of the record judgment, can this catalog increase, or is it a closed catalog? Public opinion believes that such cases are publicised by the media And these were particularly shocking cases, so that they obviously had a large social resonance, it's natural... In the Minister's opinion, can there be further clarification of the figures that have fallen? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u46	Thank you very much. Dear Senator, Mr. Marshal! High Senate! As I mentioned at the outset, the current wording of the provisions in which the child's best interests are central And as we know, this is quite a broad concept, and its assessment can be subjective, which makes decisions about taking children from parents very different, some of which are very controversial. Indeed, after a thorough examination of the case files, we may feel that the child has been taken too hastyly. Recently, the Ministry of Justice intervened in the case of several children taken from their biological parents. These cases were not included in the statistics, and in our opinion they were an abuse of the state institutions. And finally, these children returned to biological families. I stress, in more than 50 cases, poverty was the sole reason for banning children; and cases where poverty was one of two reasons The most significant and if this condition had ceased, there would have been no reason to take the children away. I'm sure there's thousands.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u47	Thank you very much. Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u48	The statistics are confusing, Minister, because we would have to refer to European statistics, which show that one-third of Polish children live in poverty, which is difficult to agree with, and in such a poor way, that they rely on malnutrition, on permanent malnutrition. So it can be measured differently. I would like to ask the Minister whether the 50 cases you have mentioned have been thoroughly investigated. Paper will accept everything, and my knowledge as a social policy is that poverty never I stress that he never walks alone, but he has his reasons. [[Voice from the room: The platform was good.]] Even if someone writes that the only reason was poverty, it's not true. I'm quite sure of it. That's what knowledge is. So my question is, have you really investigated this? Once again, I stress that poverty has its causes and never walks alone.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u49	Thank you very much. Dear Senator, let me stress once again how we obtained this data and what the procedure looked like. Namely, the courts have received guidelines or even an obligation from us to include in the report decisions or judgments concerning the matter that you have just discussed. And when you ask if we've been investigating... Well, I have no reason not to believe the judges who put it in the reports. The judges are, as you know, not in their views and in their decisions. They have the right, they have the duty. And if you're asking for a wider picture of this problem, Mr. Senator, I would like to say to you that last year the Institute of Justice carried out an examination of the files of 300 such cases and the conclusions of these studies are very sad conclusions. Namely 60% There was no violence in the traditional sense of the word when children were taken away.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u50	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u51	Minister, you've been listening to the debate. At the time, I asked a question which the rapporteur was unable to answer concerning balancing, a fine slogan, which you also point out to us, with implementation possibilities... You mentioned, among other things, that economics, economics in the field of helping children indicate that instead of paying for foster care, for certain forms of care, 2 000 200 PLN, it is better to give these funds to the family. Is this your announcement of an increase of 500+, an increase of 1 thousand 500 PLN? If that's what you say, I understand that this economic aid will be based on the fact that the principle of art will remain. 2 of this law, referring to the impossibility of taking children, and these measures, instead of taking foster care, will be addressed to the family. But it's not just that... Art. 71 and Article 7 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. The 72 constitutions you do not mention require the public authorities to take into account the good of the family. By the way, about the baby's welfare... Minister, I know you're having trouble determining what the child's welfare is, and you say it's subjective. However, this is governed by the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which the State has ratified. In turn, you mentioned in your speech that the welfare of the child is the highest when the child is raised in the family. So it's the good that's defined. And now this question, which I support, is the government able to provide these families with adequate material assistance by introducing a fairly rigid line regarding the impossibility of taking children away without the consent of their parents? Because that's what we're talking about here.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u52	Thank you for that question. Dear Senator, as far as the first part of your question is concerned, I know that this question is followed by noble intentions. I mean, we all want Polish families to be supported in a more comprehensive, more complementary way. And I would like to stress that the Polish government is working on this, including through the program you mentioned, 500+. However, the most important thing is... The Ministry of Justice, as regards this area of State influence, is not a leading ministry and I have no legitimacy to speak for the Minister of Social Policy and, above all, this is not the subject of this project either. As far as the definition of the child's welfare is concerned, I mentioned the fact that it is quite a concept, which results from our experience and analysis of the cases in which the children were taken. What I'm trying to say is, not in all cases. I'm saying it today with full conviction. The Polish state acted well and interpreted the term "child's well-being." We therefore propose to clarify this definition so that there is no doubt. Poverty cannot be the sole cause of interference... And here I will refer again to the Constitution, Art. 47 and Article 4 (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u53	Thank you. Senator Zientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u54	Thank you very much. Minister, I have two or three questions. Now, back to the matter that we were just talking about here, which is poverty as an exclusive.... I, too, think that the child should be in the family, and that's all that's meant to be. The more that the term "poor" is an unacceptable term She shouldn't have... I'm wondering, and I'd like to know when... I've been on the National Judicial Council for eight years and I'm interested in these problems quite vitally. You said the judges were preparing reports. I would like to know when, at what time these reports were prepared by the judges. I'm having second thoughts about these statistics and this research. Why? Since the court does not state the reason for the judgment, it may not be justified either, and most of these cases are not challenged by those persons. So I'm asking you, on what basis did you come to this conclusion, because in the justifications you didn't... And the second question, the second point in which Senator Szymański informed me in part. I am interested in what your position is about this premise or all forms of helping parents. That's what Mr. Antoni Szymanski was talking about. In some judicial districts related to a particular district, it is not possible for parents of a child to benefit from all forms of assistance. So, in fact, this condition would be excluded in such circles. Is that what this is about? I'd like to know your position. We only got such dry information that the amendment was rejected at the committee meeting. I'd like to know what your position on this matter is.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u55	Thank you kindly. Dear Senator, the period you are asking about is the period from 1 January to 31 December 2015. This is about the report on family civil matters, except underage cases, the designation MS-S16. As far as the details are concerned, this is Section 1. 1.f. The courts have shown that the placement of the child outside the biological family only because of poor living and economic conditions occurred in cases of... That's what I'm talking about. As for the second case that you asked the senator, namely that in some counties it may be that all forms of assistance are not available... We analyzed it at the Ministry of Justice. In our view, the judges will interpret this as all available forms of assistance, all available... [[Wouldn't it be better to accept this amendment and add that it is available? That's why I wanted to know your position. Because, of course, this is about the forms available in the district of judgment.]] That's what he originally sounded like... We don't insist on it. This was the original draft law that we submitted to the Sejm. The amendment, i.e. all of it, was made by the Legislative Bureau at the second reading stage of the Parliamentary Committee. At that time, the Legislative Office considered that all of this would be better suited from a legislative point of view to the whole wording of the bill. But, as I say, in a fundamental sense, it doesn't change much in our assessment, which is why we won't insist on it. In our view, once again, the courts will interpret... According to our assessment, the courts will interpret this in such a way that it is all available forms of aid.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u56	Thank you. I don't see any more calls. We've finished the questions with the Minister. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Patrick What: Thank you kindly.]] I'm opening a discussion. I am the first to ask the floor of Senator Lydia Staron, which is based on the article. 90d paragraph. Point 1 (2) of the Senate's Rules of Procedure under the authority of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions will submit a legislative proposal to the Act under consideration. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u57	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present an amendment, which is the result of the work of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, an amendment to the family and caring code. It is the result of a petition by a number of associations and individuals. As the previous speaker mentioned earlier, the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, a few thousand people have signed the petition, who have asked to clarify the provisions of the amendment. The amendment is as follows... She also kind of consumes all the questions... Maybe not all of them, but the first part of the question. The amendment replaces the word "or" in the words "or "all" in the words "and "all." And a few more words about why the amendment was adopted in such a way and why the committee did not accept other amendments, which were also included in this petition. Here we would have to pay attention and refer, which will probably also dispel some doubts, to the current wording of the rule. Today's art. 1123 thus states: "The child should be placed in foster care after all forms of assistance have been exhausted for the parents of the child referred to in the provisions on family support and foster care, unless the child's well-being requires immediate care. That's today's sound. The petition... the Associations that referred to the Senate indicated that the proposed rules would make the situation of children worse; they would not improve it at all, but only make it much worse. That's because the proposal contained the word "or," it was optional. And, in fact, without the exhaustion of all forms of aid that should be taken before the birth child of the family is taken, the court could decide freely, taking into account only the conditions of the article. 109 or the law on foster care. The petition indicated... Associations indicated that in their opinion And this was the subject of our committee's deliberations. The proposed amendment provisions, which were also indicated in their assessment, are based on German solutions which should not, in the assessment of applicants, be exemplary, and that they would make the situation of families and children even worse, in all, possibly received. They also pointed to the statistics we talked about here, which is statistics... The Ministry gave it to us, it's already gone, it's about the statistics of judgments, judgments. The judges forbid children as the only reason The above-mentioned more than 50 cases indicated a social condition, the so-called poverty. In other decisions... Here we know, because we discussed this at a committee meeting with the Ministry, that the work will be carried out and other judgments will be examined in terms of the burden of these social indications. The associations that approached us with this petition actually pointed to three areas. The first area they pointed out was, as I said, optional helping the family. The judge who ruled that children were being taken away could only indicate the provisions of the article. 109 of the code, but he could also fulfil the conditions for helping this family with the Family Support Act and the foster care system. Therefore, the associations strongly requested that the word "or" be changed to "and." The Commission has unanimously accepted this amendment and this amendment is notified by my mouth as a representative. The Associations also drew attention to two other areas of concern, indicating a certain degree of discretion in the assessment of applicants as regards the possibility of taking children away. The first one is... And this is where they offered a solution. We're still talking about the article. 1123 §1. They suggested that... today we have children taking off, not pointing out whether it's the parents' fault or not. They asked me to put her in foster care as a result of a serious... It is about adding the words "parent exposure" to the child's well-being. They asked me to put in this recipe. Then, when it's blamed, when it's the parents' fault, it'll be possible to take the children away. Another threat they pointed out, also by proposing an amendment on a concrete solution... Besides, the Minister was talking about it here, too. It is particularly about the direct exposure of his life or health, the insertion of the word "direct." In this proposal we're discussing, that's not what we're discussing. Why did they say that? They were talking about a high degree of freedom in judging a judge who was wondering whether or not the child would be picked up or not. They said that there's been a lot of situations... specific cases. Such cases were discussed at a committee meeting. It was about a three-hour meeting. They pointed to some kind of freedom even when it is at risk of health. Sometimes a judge, for the sake of peace That's what they said for fear, it's easy for this child to pick up if he thinks he's at risk of health. So it's about the grounds for some kind of threat in the future, isn't it? And the association also referred to similar German regulations, where it is a threat... It's something that can happen, something that's actually hard to fight, because it's about the future. Therefore, such an amendment was proposed at the committee meeting. You put it together, Senator Mammoth. It was not accepted because 2 senators were in favour of the proposal, 2 against and 3 abstentions. Therefore, this amendment did not find a positive outcome at the committee meeting. And the first one, like I said... There we are no longer talking about optionality, i.e. the judge's choice of form of support. However, there must be these conditions together. First, helping the family, i.e. first you have to exhaust all possible means resulting from the code and from the law. Only then can you consider taking your child away from your family. I think that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u58	Thank you very much, Senator. Now please take the floor of Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u59	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to begin by thanking the initiators of this law, because in fact, what and how the public learned about the appalling facts of taking the child away from the family for economic reasons or cases where the economic cause was one of the basic reasons for making such a decision. For every one of these cases... The Minister mentioned about 50 cases, but there were probably more cases where this condition was overwhelming in such a decision than in another decision of the court. Each of these is the drama of a particular family, specific people, specific children and in some way also criticism of the state's actions. Because please note: these decisions were made, but what did they mean? If the child hits e.g. to the children's home, for this place in the children's home I know the data from two years ago in Płock County. Approximately PLN 4,5,000 of old age had to pay. The data are different, but these are the sizes, PLN 4,6 thousand for one place in a child's home. This also means some irrationalism of the economic functioning of the state. I mean, why do old-timers, or counties that keep children's homes, take the money for it? In general, of course, from taxes, from state revenues. Wouldn't it be better to reverse this philosophy and e.g. strengthen the family when it cannot carry out its own responsibilities for some reason or illness or permanent incapacity for work or for some different reason in life? Wouldn't it be better to strengthen the family economically and enable it to perform parenting and parenting functions rather than theoretically deprive the family of the possibility of upbringing and working, parental care? This is a very serious dilemma and now that we are discussing the functioning of the state, about a philosophy of approach to the family, we are in some kind of ticks. On the one hand, it is said: free market, liberalism, let everyone be a blacksmith of their own happiness, on the other hand we also have a strong ideological tendency. Interestingly, it is generally associated with socialism. Because if we compare the model of approach to the family in Sweden ruled by the socialists for 60 years and in the Soviet Union ruled by the Communists, we will see that in one country and another there was a state of education for a very simple reason. Because it was considered that the state, or group of decision-makers, actually knows better how to educate, how to shape curricula, how to approach the educational process, what to apply, what to teach, etc., etc. We see here that these ideological temptations are unfortunately still strong and the state must maintain a certain balance in order, as the Minister said, not to happen, colloquially speaking, pouring out a child with a bath. On the one hand, the point is not to overregulate, but on the other hand, to make sure that where there are dysfunctional families where there is really a need for family support, but through a very strong input, these instruments are. And I think we're at the beginning of a road to building or remodeling family policy right now. And this is not a process that only concerns Poland, it also applies to other countries of the European Union, because new phenomena are emerging, there are discussions about a new family model, there are new problems that will force modern states to take action in this direction. Please note that countries that are more advanced in family policy than we are, e.g. The Czech Republic gives an example of a country that is, say, comparable in terms of economic development and had a similar history, i.e. was once in the so-called. Socialist block... Please note that for example. in Sweden there is a special benefit for mothers who stay home with children up to 3 years old. They get the lowest salary that is regulated by law in this country, and they can raise their children themselves. A lot of mothers use it. Interestingly, e.g. In the Czech Republic, the problem, as I will describe it, is very different because the Czechs think that the model in which the mother, the parents directly care about raising the child is much better. He is also economically sound. Someone's gonna ask, what do you mean, money for raising kids? It's never been like this. Only that when we count how much it costs for a place in nursery or kindergarten, it turns out that paying a witness to a mother, creating an opportunity for her to choose whether she wants to go to work and raise children at the same time, but at the time she is at work, the child remained in nursery or in kindergarten, or vice versa, whether she wants to raise them herself... In fact, this model is also economically justified. This shows that there is a need for very high re-evaluations in this area, and above all that there is a need to build a flexible model that allows parents, mothers to choose a certain way, to choose how and in what life functions they perform. The solution is not a model imposed from the top, assuming that a woman must work or that she cannot work. Of course, no top-down model is a good model, where flexibility and choice can be maintained. So that I would very much like to thank you for this bill. This is a step in this direction, towards building a more flexible system. This must also be seen in a holistic context, as it is already a special benefit from the 500+ programme, which will apply from 1 April. I would like to tell all the critics of this solution that I recently had the opportunity to talk, for example. with Mayor Rażada in my constituency, who did not run from the Law and Justice elections, only from his own committee, and thanked me for this witness, saying: sir, this is very important for our small local community, because we have calculated that it will give the local market about PLN 3 million, so it will be money that will not only improve the situation of the family, but will also turn the economic situation on this micromarket in Rażada. So that slowly, slowly, brick bricks, brick bricks, building these solutions undoubtedly, I hope, will foster the strengthening of the family, not the doing of the family in its educational functions, and will be implemented in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, As it is said in the European Union, secular subsidiarity means the same thing in general, because it is a matter of ensuring that the structures that can solve a particular issue do not serve the structure of a higher order. Therefore, if the family can cope, even with some support, if necessary, temporary or more permanent on the part of the state, it is very good. It's not about building a schematic model, it's not about building a model that's just gonna kind of rattle with ideology one way or another. So that I thank you again, and I hope that this amendment is moving in this direction that I was talking about. Maybe statistically it wasn't a problem, I'd say mass, but it was a problem that meant lifelong drama for those who experienced this separation in the family for economic reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u60	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Szymanski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u61	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I've spoken once before, but now I'd like to make a few remarks from myself. We have been discussing this for several months because of the amendment proposed by the government. This is very important and it is very good, because this discussion has overshadowed the awareness of social workers, and this is a very large service, thousands of judges who participate in this discussion and look at it in their environment such discussions are also being conducted. The court curators and society as a whole, who, when participating in this discussion, find that it is not a good solution, that only for this reason, of course, the serious reason for poverty, poverty, lack of material resources, the child was taken from the biological family and placed in foster care. A certain effect in my opinion has already been achieved. The rules we have ahead of us are also an important issue. It seems that what the petition committee proposes in relation to the article. 1, which is the combination of what is already in the family and caring code in the article. 109 §2 (1) (4) with all forms of aid from the Act on Replacement Care, it can very seriously complicate the decision-making in these cases. Note that it is not only in the foster care law that specific assistance is mentioned. In the current family and caring code, Article. 109 points 1 and 4 are referred to as very specific aid. I will quote a passage from one of these provisions: oblige parents and minors to take specific steps, in particular to work with a family assistant, to carry out other forms of family work, to direct the minor to a day support facility. That's what point 1 is talking about. In item 2, we are talking about the definition of activities that parents cannot do without the permission of the court. It is then referred to subject to parental supervision by a curator who, after all, cooperates with social assistance and various types of assistance, including educational or pedagogical assistance, provides, but also directs these persons in a skillful manner, whether to a non-governmental organisation or to social assistance. So that we have a very broad commitment to help in the current legislation. This combination of this in an absolute way, as proposed by the petition committee here, with the conditions laid down in the Act on Replacement Care, may cause quite a complication in the implementation of the provisions in this regard. I also draw attention to what has been the subject of this debate, namely that talking about all available forms of assistance... Judges following a debate that has been held for several months, in my opinion From my consultation, that's what I'm saying. They will try to apply this law literally. They're not gonna interpret it as all available, they're just... If we write down all of them, that means all of them. It is therefore hardly surprising that... so that, in my opinion, this change, also by the petition committee, which proposes that it be about the available forms of assistance Forms available in a given district It's the right change. I fear that §2... He does not seem necessary in the context of this amendment, because §1 is very clear about the various forms of assistance that need to be applied. §2, which refers to the prohibition of placing a child in foster care only for the reason we are talking about here, if there is no parental will, seems too far-reaching. I will also stress that the entire family code is constructed on the basis of the main condition of the child's welfare. This is very clear in the various articles. So today we're not changing the family code, we're just clarifying it in some places. It seems, and it is my belief that art. 1 would be enough. Finally, just before I worked in the Senate, I had the opportunity to control twenty-several files of cases where curators asked me to put a child or children in foster care. I did it to tell you what the reasons for driving like this were... Of course, twenty-seven cases that I have examined in various courts are a small number, but in none of these cases I have found the sole or main cause of material issues, that is, poverty, although in each of these families poverty, and very deep, occurred. What was the dominant reason? The dominant reason was maternal alcoholism and absence... I'll mark that right away, 'cause the senators' heads are definitely asking if I'm talking about the alcoholism of mothers, then what about the fathers. Fathers who are not present either abroad or in a concubine, somewhere else, who are not interested in children. I stress this because a few or several years ago, the reasons for this were different. Today, in the context of the democratisation of alcohol and in the context of various cultural changes, this is a very common situation. And if there is mom's alcoholism, then there are also economic problems, even if social assistance works well and helps in every way available, even if NGOs still help. And even if he's an assistant to the family, he's also having great difficulty carrying out his mission, if that's the problem. Thus, there were many different reasons why curators would apply for a child or children to be placed in foster care. Of course, I do not question that there have been such cases as the Minister is talking about, because these cases have been widely presented. However, I say this in the context of the fact that we really need to think very seriously about the problem of the educational function of the family and the directing of children to foster care, because not a very small percentage of the children who are raised there must be of concern to us, and in the context of the fact that we will still be considering changes in this amendment, because there is at least one amendment tabled, the petition committee. So, I would also ask you to consider the issues that I was talking about, namely the non-binding of the obligation arising from the family and care code with help, but to keep this or that it should be preserved and to apply the wording of the available forms of aid. Because I think it's already been said very clearly here that not all forms of aid exist in all counties. I would also consider §2 whether it is necessary from the point of view of achieving this objective, to which the government has rightly placed us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u62	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u63	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I would like to say that it is fairly well discussed about this law, although the law itself is tragic, because it concerns things that are not ethical or moral, and above all there is legal doubt here. The pictures we watched on TV hurt, and they showed the despair of families despite their poor financial situation, for various reasons. We know these reasons mostly, and these are the breakup of marriage or alcoholism. But these reasons were not such a moral limit that children could be taken away legally. ♪ 'Cause none of us ♪ .. those who have families. He does not imagine that his own child should be taken care of either by a state institution or by a foster family. These are certainly tragic situations. And I am glad, and I also want to say that I mostly agree with my predecessors in the fact that it is good that this bill is being amended and that right now this problem will be closed. It is important that this support, which is intended to improve the conditions, does not turn into using this support to make these conditions worse. We know from experience that if the family is in some way pathological, it does not fulfil its basic functions, it is also hard to solve this problem forcefully. I hope that this support, which is very broad at the moment, plus the 500+ programme, which in the opinion of many is intended to improve the conditions of such families, will not be used by them in the other way, among others. for the purchase of alcohol or other drugs that will only deepen pathology. Let us hope that these will be extreme situations, and the supervision of these families will be such that it will rule out the possibility of using additional resources from external care to actually help these families, because there is nothing more important than the welfare of the child. Besides, we all want this help to be directed primarily at children, so that they feel as little poverty as possible, as little pathology. On the other hand, I wonder whether, in fact, in such extreme cases, when children suffer from malnutrition, they will not be exposed to diseases, to impropriety or to other causes that result in poverty, which causes various kinds of complications. I would like to say that I will vote for "yes," because I fully support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u64	Thank you very much, Senator. Now, Senator Zientarski... excuse me, Senator Augustine, and you will prepare Senator Zientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u65	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! As a rule, I think we all agree that we are particularly sensitive to the welfare of the child in Poland. The sign of this in international law is that Poland was the initiator of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, we pride ourselves on it. And I'm sure we all agree that the best environment in which a child has a chance to develop properly is family and that we should strive to do so. That is what we think, and this is followed first by the bill we proposed a few years ago to support the family and foster care, just to support the family and foster care, and then by its amendment, which was to step up efforts to support the families. Because we cannot close our eyes to the fact that not all families do well with their responsibilities, that families in Poland are experiencing their various difficulties and that this support is often required. I don't know how to settle a dispute about the difference between GUS data and ministry data. Recently we had a meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, where data were presented to us, which showed that the number of children placed in foster care fell slightly, to a very small extent, but fell. Here we hear about CSO data that point to the opposite, we hear about data that, as we know, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy protested, claiming that these data are not quite accurate. Anyway, it wouldn't be good for us here in the Senate to get a signal from Parliament that foster families, foster care, that's a bad form. She should, of course, only be used in the necessary cases, but what foster families do is what they do in foster care. It's very important, it's a real treasure that we should respect. And we should be concerned that those willing to act as a foster family do not want to come to the extent that there is a demand from the court. Children are very often directed to institutional forms of care because they do not have foster families. And that's a problem too. Moreover, the foster care is so fashioned today that its purpose is to work with the family, cooperate with family assistants and return the baby from foster care to the natural family. Whenever I'm in families like this, and I try to visit them, I hear that they consider their greatest success to maintain contact with the biological family and return the child to her. I would like to stress this, because the bill under discussion here does not aim to disrupt the efforts of foster families, nor to idealise the care of many families who do not fulfil their basic functions. The second point I would like to mention is that, as a social assistance practitioner, I do not very much believe in these judicial statistics. I rather agree with Senator Zientarski that if we were to reach out to the reasons for the judgments that are being passed, we would see a whole spectrum of reasons that led to extreme poverty for families. Even if a judge is foolishly typing poverty as the basic reason why a child or children have been sent to foster care, I do not believe in such a thing, because poverty is the result, not the cause. It is the result of a number of factors that have made the family scarce. I'm talking about all this because somewhere in the background, as in the case of foster families, there may be a belief that social workers, the police, who sometimes step in, whether family courts are against the welfare of the child. That they deliberately or unconsciously hurt children. I do not agree with such an assessment and I find that issues such as taking a child from a family are subject to judicial review because this is an extremely serious decision. And they are generally made responsible, although, of course, an error can never be ruled out. And it would be good, Minister, if, following every such case, action was taken to clarify the matter in depth. We can't believe here in this situation... There may be pathology, perhaps not only in the family, but also in case law. It's always worth exploring. Now, about the regulations themselves. I share Senator Szymański's view that the current legislation, also contained in §1 in the amendment, is sufficient to secure and fully implement the intentions of the bill discussed here. So that even if somewhere, in individual cases, there is a pathological situation in court, one could reach this revised paragraph and prevent such situations. However, the revised §2 may raise considerable objections in the judiciary itself and lead to too far-reaching restraint when drastic situations arise and you have to direct the child to foster care from the family, including the family for some reason suffering from poverty. I'll be more consistent than Senator Szymanski. I am making an amendment in this regard. Finally, I would like to say that this law is always the case when we are talking about the welfare of the child. It's exciting. Some will want to see a picture of a crying child and grieving parents who do not want to send their child to foster care even for a short period of time. However, I would like to leave you with pictures that should never disappear from our eyes, with pictures of children, babies and babies beaten, abandoned and abused, which we see very often. There's been a statement here not to spill the baby with the bath. Although I have doubts as to whether material causes exist... Good thing we're sealing the system. But let us not go too far so that sometimes we do not allow drastic images to be seen when the child's welfare is ignored by adults to appear too often. Let this be a justification for the amendment I am making.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u66	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Piotr Zientarski, already announced.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u67	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I will refer to the words of Senator Jackowski, who at the beginning of his speech presented the existing dilemma, in his opinion, the family or the home of the child? Ladies and gentlemen, there is no dilemma here. Family! The discussion about the children's and family's home has been over here a long time ago. The foster care that my esteemed previous speaker, Senator Augustine, spoke so widely about was appreciated. The replacement bake is to be, I would say, an emanation of the family and serve to maintain contact with the family. I think the senator here meant the historical diwags of the past. We are all convinced of this, and all those who take care of these matters know that only family matters. Ladies and gentlemen, strengthening the family... there's been a lot of talk here about 500+. I have some doubts as to whether this programme, in particular as regards the first child, will not change the situation with regard to the requirement of income. These cases have happened before. I remember that for 170 PLN, not 500 PLN... I remember there was an increase, almost avalanche, the number of divorce cases and separation cases. That's why I'm having serious doubts here. I don't want to be a bad prophet, but that's what I see as the greatest weakness of the program, the 500+. That's a threat, not a strengthening of the family. I'm talking about the differentiation. As I said, there has already been a ruling by the Constitutional Court in this case. There, too, arguments were raised regarding the increase in divorce rates. This could happen. Ladies and gentlemen, I know that some of these are not one-off cases, they have asked for a reduction in wages. They wanted to sort of get on that threshold. So the family thing could be in danger here. It's a matter of family courts. That's what I'm talking about. It's a shame the Minister just left, but perhaps he'll be familiar with the transcript. I think the jurisdiction of the courts should change. We've made significant changes. The referee is to rule on offences and on the smallest matters, registration, etc. Asessor... there are certain exemptions here, but it's already, you can say, second degree. The judge is grade three. I ask: if family courts, since they are to deal with the family in a complex way, should not decide In divorce cases too, judges should do so, not referenda or asessors. And in matters relating to the distribution of the property of a marriage or concubine? I am saying this as an experienced lawyer for the family judges, wanting, without wanting, to succumb unfortunately to a certain legal, civilistic dissection. I see you're counseling, Senator Silence is nodding me. Not much, they even have some difficulty with promotion, because they are de facto not engaged in civilization. Shouldn't we consider... Of course, we will not do this as part of the work on this bill. However, I believe that the problem is very important. If family courts work, let them deal with the whole family problem, let them see not only family issues today, but also the causes of marital breakdown and possible consequences of division, etc. Come on. I think it should be... as far as the word "available" is concerned, the Minister said that he would not insist here and that yes, and not otherwise, should be understood by the court. If so, I believe that the amendment which has been tabled should be accepted. That's what this is all about, and that was the original project of the Ministry of Justice. That's what the minister said. This is about the available means of assistance. The judge may not judge any other than under the law, and the law contains all the measures. They will not be applied and in fact this second condition will be dead in all those counties where certain measures will not be available. That's another line. I'd like to join you... Senator Augustine and I talked about this. That is what Senator Szymański said, although he has not tabled an amendment in this regard. That Article shall apply from the date of entry into force of this It is redundant because the ratio legis law is indeed a detailing issue... I don't want to talk about taking, because it's about the real welfare of a child, not punishing someone by taking children. The next thing you know, I'm very... I will investigate this issue and turn to the Minister of Justice on this matter. It's called 50 cases. The judiciary is at least two-way. That's what the Constitution says. It's what the procedure says. Ladies and gentlemen, I meet with various strange judgments of the courts of first instance, but that does not mean that the judiciary generally fails to meet, so to speak, the requirements relating to justice. That's what the second instance is for. And I'd like to know if... [[But then the kids are gone.]] But one second, Mr. Senator. I would like to know how many such judgments were maintained by the second instance and whether there were such judgments, even in these cases loudly. Because it's only then that you can talk about a court ruling, not when it's illegal... In such a situation, did parents who did not agree to this appeal appeal? And what happened to that appeal? Because if they don't fold... [[Most people don't know they can fold.]] No, no, they know, because the court has a duty in every case to instruct and instruct on appeals. [[On a case-by-case basis.]] No, he's teaching. Therefore, everyone is aware of this, because the court teaches, clearly says when... and every practice will confirm it. And it is especially so in situations where the parties appear without lawyers. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is important whether or not such situations have actually been the case. 'Cause I'm having second thoughts here. And I say this in the context of whether this survey, which was done by the Ministry, is really about final or illegal judgments. And whether it really was an exclusive cause and others were not. Because if there were such situations and they weren't complained, then, ladies and gentlemen, it would mean that this will of the parents was probably a little weakened. But I suspect those parents who protested so loudly filed an appeal. And I'm curious to see what the outcome is. I also wanted to raise these legal issues because I believe that they should be considered here, taken into account both at this stage and in the context of the proposals submitted de lege ferenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u68	Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. Senator Silence.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u69	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The issue that we are dealing with today is a fundamental issue of human rights, especially family rights, respect for privacy, respect for the contact and upbringing of children in the family, with their parents. Unfortunately, recent years have been abounding in media reports, which show that our courts have not dealt very well with this issue of respect for family rights and, above all, being parents together with children. As was reported in the case of reporting various kinds of judgments, when such judgments occurred a little chilling blood in the veins. Because if the reason for taking the child away from parents was that it was because of the fact that.. The apartment is neglected, it is unpainted, it is misplaced or because children are not properly dressed, it was really a bizarre and absurd situation. However, I believe that they were sporadic, because I deal with the justice system every day, and I do not judge it as badly as one might think on the basis of such individual cases. But, ladies and gentlemen, it is already the case that, unfortunately, such individual cases usually decide on the picture of the whole, and it is the image that is distorted. I'd just like to give you a little bit more here. Maybe not for excuses, but for explanation. The fact that such bizarre situations occur all over the world, not only in Poland. I would like to give an example of Germany, which is considered a democratic rule of law. Rechtsstaat and which very rarely lose cases before the European Court of Human Rights. But there also happened this case, the Kutnzer case against Germany, in which state interference was so far gone and so absurd that two children were taken away from their parents simply because parents, as shown, due to some intellectual shortcomings... Because their intelligence ratio was at the border level, showing almost a mental underdevelopment. And what was done about it? Well, it was through interference of various types of state institutions, first of all administratively, and ending with the judgments of German courts of all instances, that parents were deprived of their children, because it was stated that they would have better conditions for development, especially intellectual development, if they were elsewhere, in another family, which would provide them with better opportunities, especially in terms of education, intellectual and spiritual development, than parents affected by intellectual impairment. This is an example of an extreme approach to the concept of a child's welfare. In such an approach, the child's well-being is actually transformed into its opposite. That's it. for example, how the general categories of Mr Jak spoke about it. The child's well-being can be interpreted and lead to misguided results. And it was in the case of Mr Kutzner that Germany lost the case before the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, which stated that this type of action of the state, taking children from the rightful family, parents, clearly violates the article. 8 the European Convention on Human Rights, which refers to the obligation to respect family life. And on that occasion, as in other matters, the Court brought forth in its justification such a beautiful sentence, which it refers to, namely, that the essence of family relationships and family happiness is precisely the joy of being together with parents and children who form a family. And it is worth remembering all of us, not only the judges, but also us as parliamentarians. Therefore, I believe that the intervention we are undertaking deserves recognition. Although, in general, I am in favour of making greater use of the general, general clauses, which I will remind you of, for example, in the European Convention on Human Rights, which does not prevent the judges of the Court from giving very reasonable judgments and protecting the family from unlawful interference. Yeah, but since we've had some decisions lately, as I say, that raise social opposition, even anxiety, this kind of interference seems to be deliberate. That is why I support this amendment of the Act and also the proposal made today by Senator Staron for a small amendment to the article. 1123, to replace the functionor or alternative with the wording "and." In other words, the placing in the foster care would constitute an ultimo ratio, i.e. a definitive measure which could only be applied if other measures provided for in Article were previously applied. 109 of the family code and It's about this change. The child's forms of assistance provided for in the Family Support Act and the foster care system have proved ineffective, i.e., as has been formulated here, have not resulted in the child's well-being being removed. I believe that, following the adoption of this small amendment, the entire law will deserve to be accepted as much as possible, which is why I am in favour of this law. Except, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to add one more point that may be a reason for our further consideration. It is not enough to change material law, in this case the family and caring code. In order to achieve the right results, certain changes and procedural and organisational changes must be made. Here I agree with Senator Ziientarski's claim, as well as the long-standing practice of a lawyer, that the existing separation of cases between the District Courts of the Family Departments, which generally lead, for example, divorce cases, and the District Courts that conduct other cases, is probably a mistake. It should focus in one court, which should have the whole family, so to speak, in my view and decide these matters. Such an artificial distinction, which is now functioning, is illegible and leads to improper organisation of judicial work, and sometimes to regrettable results in the form of such judgments as we mentioned here. But even more important is not so much the issue of the system as the courts should recognize as the question of trial. Ladies and gentlemen, as long as we have such an absurd civil procedure, which boils down to a process at this point in time, where at a certain stage all the means of proof must be laid down under the rigour of inability to establish them later, because there is so-called. evidence prefiling, which is the procedure in which the agents are made postmen... First, they must send all pleadings to the other parties to the proceedings, and then they can file them before the court, otherwise it is the court that treats them as non-existent. These are all procedural mechanisms that make the process, firstly, chronic, and secondly, not leading to the determination of material truth. And that's where these legal errors happen. If the judge is merely a member of an X-ray studio, then he puts a picture, which is what results from the established facts, on the pattern, that is, what follows from the recipe, and does not care whether or not any additional evidence should be carried out. It is often obscured by the fact that some evidence was allegedly submitted too late or that it was not submitted at all, because the lawyer did not send a lawyer to his colleague on the other side of the pleading, and therefore this letter is not accepted at all. We have the results that we have, and it is difficult to talk about a properly functioning justice system. The best we can talk about is a properly functioning game that resembles a little game from the arcade of games, where slots decide on a certain result, not people. And yet the essence of the power of judgment is that judges, living people, flesh and blood, should decide what is right, what is right, according to the old principle of the ancient lawyer Ulpianus, ius est ars boni et aequi, or law is the art of goodness and righteousness. And that's what we should be aiming at, all the more so in matters relating to children, about family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u70	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Ryszka.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u71	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This is the most optimistic thought about this amendment to the Because there was already such a fear that isolation of children, breaking them out of their family home only because of poverty, would become the norm for us. As has already been pointed out, only between 1 January and 30 June 2015, the number of cases in which bad economic and living conditions were perhaps not the only but the most important reason for decisions to place the child outside the biological family... That was 61 cases. Maybe not everyone remembers that the impetus for the current amendment, to these changes in law was revealed and described by our Journal about the family Catherine and Sławomir Bałutów from Niska. I would just like to remind you that in December 2014, just before Christmas, as a result of an anonymous tip, a social worker and the police took three daughters away from Balutów by decision of the Nisk District Court because, as it is written, unsatisfactory local conditions. In the explanatory statement, I quote this for our Dziennik, the court stated: The narrow apartment, mess and fruit flies, the siblings were separated, the older girls, Kinga and Claudia, were given to the home of the child in Rudnik, and the youngest, then the six-month-old Sabina still breast-fed, was transferred to the foster family in Nisko. The court has long and consistently rejected further complaints from parents. He did not take into account the fact that the family had never benefited from the support of the social services centre, that the parents were working and that they could support the family. The bałuts were supervised by the probation officer, assigned to them a family assistant. For nearly a year the parents had not received permission to leave their children, even though their application was supported by the Ombudsman of the rights of the child. It was only after some time that the storm in the media managed to get the case transferred to a family court in another voivodship. The case was dealt with by the District Court in Janów Lubelski, who first agreed to return to the house of two older daughters and then the youngest. Current regulation prepared by the Minister for Justice This must be underlined by the fact that the promise made by Law and Justice was fulfilled by Prime Minister Beata Szydło at the exposé, in which he pointed out that one of the priorities of the government was to support the family and ensure its safe functioning. Hence, the 500+ law is so important, it is also intended to serve this case. In a word, the State's interference with parental authority will now only be possible in cases defined by law and after a final judgment of the court. I'll go back to the justification. It rightly points out that foster care is the furthest intervention in parental power and is, in principle, temporary, because of the obvious The natural environment of the child's development is the family. However, to prevent I'll quote the justification here. A thorough systematisation of the forms of this interference is necessary by separating the child from the parent. The point is that before they decide to separate the child from the biological family, the courts use all other methods of working with the family. The child is to be placed in foster care only when various forms of family help have failed and the health or life of the child is at risk. Thus, when parents properly perform their care and care functions, the State should provide such help to the family to come out of poverty or other difficult situations. In conclusion, I would like to stress that the current placing of children in foster care is in principle to be the ultimate measure. Before the custody court decides to take the children away, it must be like I said. Take all measures to restore the proper functioning of the family. Separation of parents and children only because of poverty and against the will of parents will no longer be possible. Speaking of the success of the current amendment, I would like to emphasise It's very important. That Poland is going off the road that has been adopted in many countries of the European Union, in the West. The worst is in Norway. I remember such an appalling case of the Romanian-Norwegian Bodnariu family. Their 5 children have the nationality of both countries, the father is a computer scientist, the mother is a nurse. The state of Bodnariu is Protestant, but it is not a state church of Norway, but a smaller community of the evangelical mainstream. In other words, parents are too practicing and for this reason 5 children were taken away from them, which separated up to 3 different apostate families living in 3.5 hours away from each other by car of cities. Unfortunately, in Norway such cases are very common and often even more appalling in their absurdity. Norwegian psychologist Marianne Haslev Skånland lists as reasons for receiving children in Norway, among others.: not putting the child's clothes into an ankle; not being able to make an omelet by the mother; cutting bread into too thick slices; the fact that the child looks at other people with a smile This supposedly means not having a proper relationship with your parents; using too much soap; a child's reluctance to do certain extracurricular activities at school; her mother's growth too low; entrusting too many nursing activities to her grandmother. Well, you could give these examples forever. Norwegian offices take 4,500 children away from their families each year. This number increases from year to year. In total, the so-called. 13,000 children are in foster care. Many cases involve families of foreigners or mixed families. The European Court of Justice has dealt with cases against Norway several times, and Oslo has, of course, lost most of them. Why am I talking about this? Because, finally, I would like to emphasise once again that the current amendment of the family and caring code of the Polish state is defending the family, so that in the future the various absurd elements of European legislation do not take the mountain also from us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u72	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Mammoths.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I wasn't supposed to speak, but I was provoked by Senator Zientarski and Senator Silence. I agree with you, sir. This is how the courts work when everything goes one by one when there is someone who takes care of the family that the children have been taken from, someone helps her. But life is a little different. We're talking about extreme cases. Theirs, as we heard here, was about 50. And I know four of them. That is why I have allowed myself to make amendments to this law restricting the voluntary assessment of the situation by judges. I think the judge should be clear when he can, and when he can't take the children. That's what I'm talking about. Ladies and gentlemen, there are different situations. I recently had this case in my district: there was a marriage, the main provider of this family died in an accident, a mother of 4 children, somehow limited, partially, contact with her is normal, but she is so scared, so afraid of everything that happens around her that she didn't even know that she could appeal anywhere... and the scream of this woman was so loud that the neighbor heard and helped her. And thanks to this neighbor, this case is going, in my opinion, in the right direction and will find the finale as it should have. But such cases are and if it is not clear when a court can take children and when it cannot, then such situations will be. Ladies and gentlemen, in my previous term of office, I was very much in favour of the Family Assistant Act, and I supported it, and I was convinced that the family assistant was someone who would protect just such families when they were being taken away from their children. It will protect them from the situation that these children will be taken away. The whole sequence of the family assistant's actions was supposed to be that he was supposed to protect his family from breaking up, he was supposed to help this family in all ways. Unfortunately, in this case, which I was just talking to you about, it was the assistant who asked me to pick up the children. It's a crazy concept, no... And that's why, in situations like this, it has to be made clear that the judge has to be so... The application said there was a mess, dirt, and I read the application. The mess, the dirt, the paint hangs from the walls, you have to interfere. No, it can't be like that. We need to get somebody to take care of this family, help her. Before you take the children away, you have to do everything, anything at all, even if it's one case to limit it. That's why I made these amendments. Gentlemen, you said Especially you, Mr. Senator. At second instance. Okay, but there are families like that. And that's what we're talking about most of the time. Who don't even know that you can appeal. They took the baby and... I've been dealing with this situation in the last few weeks. My mother wasn't expelled from the hospital, and the whole family came to me asking me to intervene. I got a good look at that mother, and she's been at my place for almost two hours, and she never once said she wanted her baby to be given back. She didn't say it, but can you conclude that she doesn't want this kid? Absolutely not. She just didn't even know she could talk to me. So that's why... Once again, I'm going to go back to what I started by saying that we need to maximize our family so that there's no freedom to decide to take the baby. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u74	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Wach made his speech in the minutes. I would also like to inform you that the legislative proposals have been made in writing by Senator Staroń and Senator Augustyn together with Senator Zientarski. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? Yes? You're welcome, Minister Jak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u75	Dear Marshal, High Senate! Because there was a dilemma in this discussion: foster care or family, I would like a clear signal from the government. The centre of interest of the Polish state should always be and will be the Polish family. Family is a basic social cell, it's a natural environment for the development of a child and there's no doubt about it. There were also questions and doubts in this discussion. Senator Jackowski asked if it was better to strengthen the family economically. Of course it's better to strengthen the family economically. This is why the Polish government is working to strengthen this institution on many levels. This is just one of the elements, but we are working on this economic element all the time, we have already introduced, among others, the many times mentioned program 500+. The next question is: is it a country or is the biological family raising better? Well, in our opinion, of course, it's the family who raises better. We're talking about an emotional bond or just a love that is more natural in the environment of a biological family. During the discussion, Senator Szymański mentioned the amendments he had requested... that were discussed in the petition committee. I would like to say that, in our view, the introduction of a coherent and rather than a coherent or acceptable one is acceptable. That won't fundamentally change the bill, and we're ready to make up our minds. As regards the question of Senator Augustine's question of whether we are questioning the foster care institution, I would like to say that we are absolutely not questioning it. We're just talking about a proper hierarchy from the state's point of view. And in this hierarchy, the biological family has to stand at the highest. High Senate, I would ask you not to accept the amendments which are aimed at removing from §2 the term "against the will of parents." From our point of view, the will of the parent is crucial here, for example, because the court will then have a clear reason, because if the parents want their children to stay with them, this must be taken into account when assessing the case file. On the other hand, if the conditions laid down in the Act are fulfilled, but the parents clearly want this child to be removed from the house, I also see no reason to force the parents to raise the child if they don't want to. That is why I believe that this provision is necessary. And the last question I mentioned in the first part of the discussion. Namely, it is the term "serious threat." I would also ask you not to introduce this element in our bill. I believe, however, that there must be some freedom of interpretation for the court in situations where there is a deep dysfunction, a deep pathology that cannot be removed and which is not a direct threat to life. Judges should be able to intervene in such situations precisely for the benefit of the child. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u76	Thank you very much, Minister. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed to the second item of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Judicial Costs in Civil Matters. The text of the Act is contained in print No 88 and the report of the Commission In print No 88 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions of Senator Zbigniew Cichoń to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u77	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Commission adopted a law adopted on 11 February 2016 amending the Law on Judicial Costs in Civil Matters without proposing any amendments. Let me remind you that the essence of the matter is to introduce privileged, i.e. reduced in relation to generally applicable court fees, fees in the case of claims by a consumer or a natural person holding a family holding in respect of claims arising from the banking activities listed in Article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and 2 of the Banking Law. Let me remind you that the general rule is that court fees are 10% values of the subject matter of the dispute, whereas here lower fees are introduced, which amount to 5% of course, the general principle that these fees are not less than PLN 30 is maintained. In addition, an additional privilege is introduced, namely the upper limit of this fee. It is to be no more than PLN 1 thousand. With very high values of the subject matter of the dispute, up to 5% could amount to more than PLN 1 thousand. In order to facilitate action by entities that are considered to be weaker than banks Undoubtedly, from an economic point of view, they are weaker than the banks. This kind of privilege is proposed here. I do not hide that there was also a discussion at the meeting, in which, in particular, the representatives of the banks presented arguments, which, in my opinion, were not valid, which would also be worth considering. I, as a lawyer's practice, say that they are important. They pointed out that the privilege that we introduce, or lower judicial fees for these people, might be very short-term, because according to the article. The 98th Civil Procedure Code has a general principle of liability for the outcome of the process, which means that the losing party is obliged to reimburse the opposite party for the costs of the process. And the banks pointed out that, well, those, let's just call them short-term, individuals who benefit from the privilege of paying a lower court fee would initially pay lower fees, since ultimately, as a result of losing the trial, they would still have to pay normal court fees on the opposite side. The banks will not have this privilege. And they can be very high charges. In this respect, however, the banks have proposed to introduce here a principle of the same court fees, including from the banks, noting that in the event of the loss of the process by these individuals they will be obliged to reimburse those lower judicial costs which the banks have incurred. Banks point out that, in fact, most of these cases are not disputed; in general, the debtor of a bank is in default with some loans that are not repaid at the right time, and those processes in 95% by debtors, most often by individuals, are lost. Consequently, in the final court settlement, when the court decides to reimburse the court, those persons shall be charged the costs of the proceedings, i.e. those relating to judicial fees and the costs of legal representation. This is, as I say, a dragonfly argument. The question is whether, when deciding on such protection, the State should not take a step further in order to ensure the real protection of those individuals from the financial consequences of the lost processes, but not to introduce a rule of lower charges for banks as well, as I say, for those individuals who would initially benefit from the preference would be burdened, as it were, with a ricochet, with the higher judicial costs charged to the banks. Because banks with a new preference do not benefit, but if they win the trials, this privileged party, i.e. the natural person, must then bear these costs. That's the way it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u78	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Grodzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u79	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr Senator, rapporteur! Thank you very much, Counselor, for having raised this important reason, because the Senate is what the other authorities are doing in order to stimulate And the Act in its present form provides a prerogative and As your patron has rightly stated, Short-term, because what if the bank's debtor pays a lower fee and the bank pays a high one if the debtor has to pay it back after the loss. It's gonna hurt. I'm not talking about the fact that attorney-client taxi, if I recall correctly, also increased slightly, even in public defense. That's why I don't think it's right. And if your counsel, as a distinguished lawyer, would propose an amendment that would change this state of affairs, I would be very happy to support it. My next question is whether the committee meeting also discussed one-man business entities, which are many of them in Poland. I'm not talking about doctors anymore. I'm talking about chimney sweepers, masons, builders. It seems that the diversity of these people, usually also not found in any outstanding economic situation, and bypassing them in this privilege, even if it is apparent, is unfair. Was that discussed? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u80	As I recall, this issue was discussed; as far as Senator Rulewski was concerned, it was assumed that it would probably be too much of an extension of the privilege, and he did not find acceptance to accept such a broader formula. As for the first point that the Senator has left out, please, it may be considered whether there is such a principle at all that banks would also benefit from the privilege of a relatively lower fee. I realize that sometimes in such an atmosphere that banks have all their profits and earn quite well, creating for them some other privileges would be inappropriate. But, as I say, it is actually taking into account that ultimately we are looking at consumer protection, which is the weaker side of the legal relationship. Like I said, to the party. And this cannot be changed so far, because we have such a structure in the article. 98 Code of Civil Procedure The liability for the outcome of the process and consequently the burden of the losing party incurred by the bank as the opposite party, is... In fact, if we want such protection to be real and fully existing, then such a solution would perhaps appear to be the most obvious. I'm aware of that. Except it would require some kind of calculations, some estimates. At that time, the State's revenue from court fees, generally speaking, would have been lower, because if it were to be reduced not only to the consumer and bear a lower fee not only to him but also to the banks, it would already give a certain amount. And it would be worth considering, I don't know if we have any statistical data, how many such cases are brought in at all, and what order would it be, so to speak, to reduce the state budget for these court fees.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u81	Thank you. Senator Borowski volunteered. Yes? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u82	Mr. Senator, isn't it that this problem has come up not only in connection with this proposal? Because if this was not the case, banks would still be paying higher fees, and the loser consumer, the borrower, for example, would still have to pay it anyway. So even if there wasn't a change... Is it not, then, that this is the result of the abolition of the bank's enforcement title? Because we didn't have a trial under the banking enforcement title, did we? We didn't have that kind of cost. We took... [[They were quite different.]] Right. [[Symbolic.]] Yes, sir. We abolished the bank's enforcement title, considering that this is an excessive advantage of the bank over the borrower, and therefore the banks refer the case to the court, as a rule, they usually win the case as they claim. And it's probably true, 95%. cases are won, because the borrower doesn't just pay and that's it. And suddenly it turns out that because they're bringing the case to court, it's legal costs. And if there's legal costs, he pays the loser. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u83	Well, yes, sir. I'm... [[And thank you very much.]] ...I tried to introduce myself. Just like the marshal says.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u84	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u85	Mr. Senator, I have a question. It's a clarification, because I don't know if I got it right. Does the committee insist that this law be released without amendments, or that two amendments be made to it? I heard there were no corrections. I need you to correct me eventually. Print No 88A proposes 2 amendments. One kind of expands the subject circle. That is what you asked the senator before, not only about family farmers, but also those who generate income from non-agricultural economic activities and pay flat-rate income tax. I'm talking about what's in front of me in print.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u86	Well, from what I have printed here... Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, As far as actors are concerned, there are no major changes here. It is only a matter of using a formula. We propose, when leaving the privileged parties, i.e. the consumer and the natural person running the family farm, simply an editorial change. It's about using the phrase... In place of the wording, either the consumer or the natural person, we propose the wording "collected from the consumer or the natural person." So it's a purely editorial change. The second one concerning these entities is a change in favour of non-agricultural persons who pay flat-rate income tax for this purpose. Specifically, here is a small extension of these entities, because it was proposed that this should also apply to those who generate income from non-agricultural economic activities and pay flat-rate income tax. These are the two amendments. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u87	Thank you very much, Senator. Any of you... You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u88	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! The materials we have received for today's sitting include the opinion of the Senate Legislative Office, which includes a proposal for an amendment to the article. 1 paragraph 1a. This applies to banking matters: the relative fee paid by the consumer or by the natural person holding the family holding in respect of the claims arising from the banking activities referred to in the legislation in question shall be 5%. values of the subject matter of the dispute, etc. Was this amendment discussed at the committee meeting? Did the committee comment on these comments from the Legislative Bureau? What's the committee's opinion on this?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u89	Thank you very much. You asked Senator Richard Majer a question. You're welcome, Senator rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u90	The Commission, of course, considered these comments and came to the conclusion that only these two small amendments I mentioned deserve recognition. So here's the deal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u91	Thank you. Do any of you have any more questions? You're welcome, Senator Zientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u92	Mr. Senator, I'm going back to Senator Borowski's question because it inspired me. Indeed, there is no longer a bank enforcement title. The general rules on court fees are therefore in force. In practice... How do you see it? Do you share the view... This would put both banks and consumers in a better position, to say the least. In such situations, when it comes to documents, should not a prescriptive procedure be used, which is often cheaper and not a general provision for 5% ? After all, such people usually lose on the basis of documents. Well, there are bank documents, very often undisputed by the website. Someone just doesn't pay and... This would be a much more favourable situation for both banks and consumers.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u93	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u94	Well, in some cases it may be suitable for such a procedure. [[I'm talking about the rule.]] The issue of introducing such a rule remains to be considered, although I, in general, am opposed to introducing different additional modes. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know if you have any insight into this matter, but I will say that at the moment there are more than 10 types of civil proceedings in the Code of Civil Procedure, and the lawyers themselves are sometimes concerned about what is right and what is wrong and what are the charges in them. I believe that the breaking-up of all these solutions is meaningless. There are certain procedures for which the parties can benefit, and the choice of the party is the choice of the procedure. It's hard to impose a bank here, whether to choose one way or another.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u95	Thank you. Do any of you have a question for the Senator of the rapporteur? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. We have the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, Minister Łukasz Piebiak. Would the Minister like to speak? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Łukasz Piebiak: Yes, if you please.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u96	Dear Marshal! Dear Senators! Dear guests! I'm just gonna sort of systematize it a little bit. I don't think that's quite clear here. It is not that the government proposes to introduce some privilege in the form of a cap on the cap on the relative charge for bank operations in respect of consumers and farmers operating an individual farm. If we could just look at the art. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1a in its current wording, which has been in force since the autumn, since October or November last year, we would see that now such a limitation is in force in all matters arising from bank operations, when the reason is the bank, a debt recovery company, a single-person trader or another entity. In the view of the government, maintaining such a restriction is not rational, it is not appropriate. Therefore, the bill limits this privilege, i.e. it eliminates the upper limit of 1 thousand PLN, so that all other entities, except the two which are indicated here, and possibly the third, which the Senate proposed... Only in these cases will there be a reduction in the amount of the fee to PLN 1 thousand. Why are we limiting this? We believe that social considerations are only in favour of limiting this to consumers, to individuals who run a family farm. Of course, you might wonder about expanding this directory, but it's some kind of breach in a general principle that's very simple. - 5%. - [Chuckles] the value of the subject matter of the dispute and the upper ceiling of the fee of PLN 100 thousand. It's not as it was said here. At least that's the government's assessment. It is a project that will put consumers under pressure. Of course, in the case of large disputes, when the bank pays more than PLN 1 000 by bringing an action and then wins the case, it will charge the defendant, for example. the consumer. But in most cases... what happened was caused by the liquidation of the bank institution's enforcement title, and the liquidation of the bank institution's enforcement title was triggered by the ruling of the Court. So it's not like someone invented it, it just needed to execute the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal, which was done in the previous term, and it had to be offered something in return. This was done in such a way that the fee was reduced. Now we're at this stage... We believe that this privilege must be limited. Of course, in most cases there is no dispute between the bank and the consumer and the bank is obliged to recover the debts. The ordinary process or order procedure mentioned by Senator Zientarski is not the only way to obtain a enforcement title and an enforcement title, which, as I mentioned, the bank is obliged to do. There is also conciliation in the court of the general character of the opponent, i.e. the potential defendant. It costs 40 PLN. [[Calling for rehearsal...]] For 40 PLN in its local court, the consumer makes a deal with the bank and creates a enforcement title in the context of the conciliation procedure. The bank is satisfied, and the consumer doesn't actually cost anything. [[Half is paid for the settlement, Minister.]] No. The provisions of the Law on Judicial Costs in Civil Matters have changed. [[Are you sure?]] I'm 100% on it. Convinced. This is 40 PLN. There are other possibilities. For example, you can make a deal before a mediator, this is also a cheaper option. There are many different possibilities and, I think, banks will use them because one thing is to win a trial, and the other thing is to enforce a debt. And if there is an alternative to the fact that you can put out a few or several thousand zlotys or 40 zlotys... there is really no dispute because someone doesn't pay because they can't afford it, and the title of execution needs to be obtained. And the bank gets that title cheaper because it pays off the bank. It pays off for everyone's balance. We have two proposals related to the Senate resolution, with the bill being procedated. The Senator, the rapporteur, presented them. The first is stricte editorially and it was proposed by me at the committee meeting. The aim is to convert the wording of the consumer into that of the consumer, since the Law on Judicial Costs in Civil Matters defines the obligation to pay a fee as charging a fee. The term "download" is used there. As for the second amendment, as the rapporteur said, the position of the government is negative here. This is because of the art. Article 6 (6) (a) 4 The Act on flat-rate personal income tax shows that entrepreneurs can be accounted for in this way, who receive revenues from their own activities of up to EUR 150 000 per year. We believe that this is such a high amount that there is no need to include such persons with this privilege. It is enough to limit this privilege to consumers and farmers operating an individual family farm. That's enough. Of course, if any poor person happens, there is an institution for exemption from legal costs. And then it's not even 1 thousand zlotys, but you can be exempted from all legal costs. Thus, the government's position is that we support Amendment 1 and oppose the second amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u97	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Are any of your senators... Senator Grodzki. You're welcome. Then you're Senator Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister, the government's negative position on amendment two has upset me for one reason, namely because there are many people in all the non-agricultural business that are far from the 150 000 euro limit. I am thinking, above all, of nurses conducting one-man business activities, doctors, masons, firemen and very many other people who carry out such activities and achieve a much lower income. And that is why I would urge the Minister to reconsider this issue in his government work. Because it seems that the financial effect would be statistically insignificant, and the benefit to such single-member companies would be evident if we accepted the amendment, but we set a good example of making the law more noble than the Sejm had prepared it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u99	Thank you. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u100	Dear Senator, thank you for this speech. There's one basic problem. We can't isolate it. If we remain within the framework of the Senate amendment, as it has been tabled, then we are bound by it. From a group of entrepreneurs benefiting from a simplified, flat-rate form of tax settlement, such as those, socially sensitive, poor nurses, firemen, etc. We are unable to separate them from those who have 150 000 euros of income per year. Because in this case, we would be privileged to include everyone. And it doesn't seem right to me, even from the point of view of such simple justice, tossing, apologizing for colloquialism, in one bag. Pretty well-functioning and wealthy entrepreneurs together with those who actually earn little income, because of the practice of nurse in the form of self-employment or because of the running of a grocery store, kiosk, etc. And I would like to stress once again, I would like to make this sound, Dear Senators: there is an institution for exemption from legal costs and it is universal, it can always be demanded, there are always two instances that lean on it. So it's really not a problem for poor people like that.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u101	Thank you, Minister. You're welcome, Senator Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u102	Thank you. Minister, maybe you can explain the procedure a little bit more. At present, after the abolition of the BTE, the bank calls on the debtor to pay what is due, the debtor does not pay and the bank refers the case to the court, sues the debtor before the court. And now tell me what kind of mediation you might be talking about in a situation where it's obvious. I mean. This isn't about any distribution of assets or any other issue that could be the subject of some kind of compromise, it's just that... the bank just wants to get an executive title, that's all. So I do not really understand how mediation can take place in such a matter and how all costs for the debtor will therefore be reduced.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u103	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u104	Thank you, Senator. The answer is very simple. In Polish legislation mediation is twofold in relation to legal proceedings, mediation is in the course of legal proceedings and is pre-trial mediation or out-of-court. The parties can arrange mediation, they can go to the mediator and, in short, agree on the resolution of the existing conflict between them. The court also gives a declaration of enforceability to a settlement concluded before the mediator. This granting of the Feasibility clause of the settlement concluded before the mediator costs probably 50 PLN, the settlement concluded in the context of out-of-court mediation, not the referral of the court, just because the parties wanted to get along with each other by means of a mediator. It is the same executive title as any other. Therefore, we do not have to go to court at all, we only need to approve, give a declaration of enforceability, which is done quickly In theory, according to the article. 776 c.p.c. the court should issue a declaration of enforceability within 3 days. which is cheap, which is effective. It's just an example of an alternative solution. This situation is presented by the banking community or debt collection companies a little bit like this: consumers, you will be retorted under this law, because we will have to sue you, we will pay the costs, and then the court will charge you with these costs. And that's not the only way. The alternative is out-of-court voluntary mediation. An alternative route is also the conciliation procedure initiated by means of a request for a settlement attempt. It costs 40 PLN, lasts for a short time and is maximized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u105	Thank you very much. [[May I?]] You're welcome, Senator Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u106	I'll ask. Let me repeat the question again about the outcome of this mediation. The debtor didn't want to pay, which is why the case was court-martialed. Therefore, I would like to know what may be the result of this mediation except that he agrees to pay in a situation where he does not want to pay.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u107	I'll answer that, Senator. Perhaps I was. not sufficiently precise in his speech. We are talking generally about a situation where there is no dispute. It must be that, in most situations, the debt resulting from banking activities is obvious, credit has taken place, this loan has not been repaid, there is no major dispute. If the bank has to recover, because it has to, it comes from banking law, and the consumer or other party to the banking operation does not question the existence of this debt, it can be done on an amicable or mediation basis, whether it calls for a settlement attempt. If the bank invites, proposes, sends a request to call for a settlement trial, and the consumer does not come to his court or comes and says that the bank does not belong, then, please, the bank brings a trial. If the consumer loses, he will bear the full costs, and it is right that he should pay the full costs, because if he were to accept his responsibility for payment of the debt, he would not have led to the need for a trial and to bear the costs. The bank invites and says: I invite you to the mediation procedure so that a enforcement title is created so that we do not have to chase you, the consumer, in court, and that you do not incur any additional costs. What the consumer says: no, I disagree, this debt does not exist. In such a situation we go to court and we judge ourselves, but then the normal rule is: you lose, you pay.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u108	Thank you. Would any of you like to ask the Minister another question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Piotr Ziientarski. Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u109	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I will definitely oppose this bill and urge the Senate of the Civic Platform to stand firm against it. Ladies and gentlemen, what's the matter? The thing was, It's about what Senator Marshal Borowski called in the questions. That there were simple cases related to the granting of a declaration of enforceability by the court... Sorry, no, it's a bank execution title. And, ladies and gentlemen, it cost symbolic money. At the moment it has been changed so that we have 1 thousand zlotys. And it's a very simple matter, things are even simpler than a simple order to pay, because it's done, ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of documents. Indeed, there are proofs: he does not pay, he has such a debt. And here was the limit to 1 thousand PLN. Now we hear that this applies to 95% debtors, i.e. all those who have so far suffered the consequences of the court fee up to PLN 1 000, may have to pay PLN 100,000 each. Well, that's the consequence of this law at the moment, because it's a reduction of up to 1 thousand PLN, which is actually a narrowing which was and which remains only applies to those who are making claims, i.e. they are against a bank with a self-claim. When e.g. The bank took their money without a legal title, etc. Such situations can happen. And I understand that this is going to be the other 5%. cases. Here, of course, the amendment is correct in the sense that there must also be a similar situation at second instance: someone is claiming and how he pays for the appeal, it will not pay according to the general principle which is being introduced here. Ladies and gentlemen, the general rule of the court fee is introduced into very simple cases, and yet, ladies and gentlemen, the court fee is only part of the costs of the proceedings. Senator Grodzki has already touched this problem. Namely, a separate issue is the judicial costs that we are talking about today in the Act, and another is the costs of the procedural replacement. These are separate costs. And that's the sum of it. . plus more expenses. They are so-called. costs of proceedings. And here we're talking about court costs. So please note: all the debtors who have so far... Whatever the contention, they were rightly threatened by 5% , not more than PLN 1 thousand... I mean, not regardless of, but 5% , not more than PLN 1 thousand. And right now, in the case of large debts, they may have to pay simply, ladies and gentlemen, up to 100 thousand PLN. So their situation will still be there. Abstracting from the cost of replacement... Well, that's the situation right now, ladies and gentlemen, that we're hitting the debtors here in addition. And why am I asking you about simple things that referenda do and do not require a complicated procedure? And here's the thing, Minister: I disagree... Perhaps you'll show me wrong, and then I'll make peace, but my conviction about the 40 zlotys you're talking about is this: always has been. I haven't practiced for a few years, but it's always been so, I don't remember changing it, I reserve it, but I'll check it out. That the cost of the request for a settlement test was symbolic. It used to be 15 zł, now it's 40 zł, as the Minister says. But this was the situation: I don't have to pay a general fee, only 40 PLN or this earlier, smaller amount. There won't be a settlement? It's okay. But if there's a settlement, half the stakes are paid on general terms. It's always been that way, Minister. You say you don't. I don't know what that means. I would very much ask you to show that there has been a change here, that half of the fee is not paid as a result of a settlement call. It's always been paid. Perhaps there's a change I missed. But let me stress once again: the basic point is that as a result of the fact that we were done, and rightly, with the banking enforcement title, the fees were... There was an upper limit of 1 thousand zloty, because things were simple, only from documents... At the moment, we're introducing general rules for court fees as if it were a big process, complicated, etc., etc., which, of course, will strike... Because, as we hear, 95% There are losers. So the general costs will be borne by all customers. There's no security here. And running these family farms, and everyone, just all of them. I don't think that's a solution, because it's a total fiscalisation in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u110	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Senator Thomas Grodzki. Mr. Senator, you have your vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u111	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! The Sejm is what other authorities stimulates noble actions. I've been saying this before... [[The Senate.]] The Senate. [[The Senate.]] The Senate, you're right. Of course, the Senate, which is us as a community. This is the third time I have said this in order, however, to induce the rulers to reflect on this law. She may not be particularly medial, there is no chance, as it is said, of breaking through in the media, but it is important for a lot of people who face their fate on a daily basis not only economically. I no longer want to discuss all the aspects mentioned by Mr Silchoń as Senator-rapporteur and mentioned by the Minister. I also do not want to lean on the origin of these changes, although they seem to have a fiscal dimension. However, I must stand up for the non-agricultural economic activities concerned by the amendment of the Senate Committee, which carry out a one-man economic activity which is extremely useful, in pain and in pain, serving as often invoked, but important nurses, masons, firemen, drivers, etc. The Minister was kind to say that because the upper limit of their income is EUR 150 000 per year, and that is a lot, so there is no need to fire them and that is why the government for this Senate amendment is negative. Is 150 thousand euros a lot or a little? This is, of course, a matter of individual assessment of each of us. However, I would like to persuade the senators and ladies to try to give a signal to the Sejm that we care about those who, while conducting non-agricultural one-man business, do not earn any coconuts, and yet are one of the important cogs of the economic machine of the state. This Senate amendment, which was prepared by the committee, reads as follows: "The words "or the revenue generated by non-agricultural economic activities and the flat-rate income tax' are added. The Minister was polite to say that the government is negative for this, because 150 thousand euros It's too much. So I propose, first of all, that we try to vote on this amendment as moving forward, and if it does not get the approval of the ladies and gentlemen of the senators, I propose to vote on the amendment in a milder form, the amendment in defence of the average earners, I mean I'm telling you this is the last time I'm gonna tell you this. For example, nurses. I propose that this provision should be a little broader, but more precise: the revenue generated by non-agricultural economic activities and the flat-rate income tax, which is no more than EUR 75 000 in the previous tax year, i.e. I propose that it be less. We are inserting a discriminator, a certain upper limit, and in this way the government may be willing to bow down to those who, in the opinion of the government, earn half of what is considered to be wealth. And I would like to propose such an amendment, and I will report it in a moment. I would ask that, for the sake of the people who serve our country every day, we accept this amendment and direct it to Parliamentary work. Man is a strange being. How did Paulo Coelho say, "What's the funniest thing about people?" They always think the opposite: they are in a hurry to grow up and then they sigh for their lost childhood. They lose their health to get their money, and then they lose their money to get their health back. They live like they're never gonna die, and they die like they're never gonna die. I would like us to be in opposition to this thinking of people when we have perfected this law, and not to make a mistake just so that we can fix it later. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u112	Thank you, Senator. Is the senator proposing an amendment? [[Yes.]] Good. Let me inform you that the list of speakers has been... [[Me too.]] Oh, I'm sorry, Senator Borowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u113	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Thank you for the explanations you've made. But this is quite a matter, I would say, specific, especially after the abolition of the bank's enforcement title. And the Polish Bank Association, however, protested in this matter, that is, it simply pointed out that after the abolition of the BTE, the fact that such a complementary solution is lacking, will cause that in fact the costs of the process will be borne by the borrowers, and he will bear this version of the agreement, mediation, which you spoke about, criticized, rejected, stated that this is not a realistic proposal... Well, he's not here, unfortunately... I wasn't at the committee meeting because I wasn't on that committee, so I couldn't ask that question. Therefore, this matter will require further explanations, especially since after the voice of Senator Zientarski... and, I understand, the Minister will still refer to these costs. Because if it were to turn out that you were right, Senator Zientarski, so that after such a settlement, however, half the costs are to be borne, then the banks' rations, moving towards consumer protection, would be here. If it turns out that the senator is wrong, I will still have to clarify the matter between today and the vote. Therefore, I will make this amendment, which says that the relative fee applies to both parties and not just one, but I stress that if this line of reasoning that the Minister has put forward proves really realistic and to be achieved, I will still be able to withdraw it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u114	Thank you very much, Senator. The list of speakers has run out. I would like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing to Senator Tomasz Grodzki and Senator Marek Borowski. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? Please, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Justice Łukasz Piebiak: May I, Mrs. Marshal?]] Yes, of course, please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u115	Once again, given the position of Senator Zientarski, I have allowed myself to review the law on judicial costs in civil matters, because it is true that legislation has this effect that it often interferes with known normative acts. Once again, I have to confirm: I'm 100% convinced that there is no additional fee other than PLN 40 in the event that the party decides to enter into a settlement in the context of the conciliation procedure, i.e. the request for a settlement attempt. I remember once, in the past... [[What does that tell you?]] What does that tell you? Mr. Senator, first of all, the fee of PLN 40 is based on article. 23... [[About the summons...]] Wait a minute. ...with the article. 23 point 3 of the Civil Costs Act... [[About the summons...]] Yeah, that's the application fee to... [[...about making a deal...]] Well, Mr. Senator, now you're telling me to prove a negative circumstance, and since I'm a judge and you're a lawyer, we both know that this evidence can't be handled. You should be the one to apologize for being so personal. Please indicate where this recipe is, which says you need to download more than 40 zł. There is no such provision, Mr. Senator, in the Civil Costs Act. I was checking, the only question that could exist is whether in the case of art. 79. Point 1 (3) (a) b, concerning the fact that half of the court fee is refunded on the letter initiating the proceedings at the instance where the case ended with the conclusion of a judicial settlement, this refund should also refer to the request for a settlement trial. So, in fact, whether this procedure costs 40 PLN or 20 PLN, because you can still imagine that the court should pay 20 PLN in the event of a settlement, but let's agree that this procedure costs 40 PLN or 20 PLN, because I see the possibility of a divergent interpretation... But by 23 November last year, I was an economic judge ruling in the Chamber and I never paid a fee in my life because I did not consider this provision to be applicable. Therefore, I do not see the possibility to take anything more than 40 PLN from the side containing the settlement in the framework of the conciliation procedure. I'm convinced of that, but of course you can have a different view of this case. It's a law, that is, subject to interpretation. Second thing, 95%. 95% The one that came up in my statement was not that someone was winning so much, and someone was losing so much, but that in banking matters the relationship was about 95%. claims are initiated by banks, or by entities that have acquired these claims from banks by way of assignment and 5% This is the opposite situation, Frankish actions and such issues. This is the only thing that this value of 95% refers to. Not to the fact that banks win at a rate like this because we don't run statistics like this, we don't have those statistics at the Ministry of Justice. Maybe the Polish Bank Association has it, but I don't know that kind of data. And to conclude, I would like to say that I understand the senator's noble intentions behind granting this privilege to clearing people as well... [[Don't take...]] Don't take, yes, you're right, Senator. ...in order not to take this privilege away from clearing companies on a simplified basis, i.e. a lump sum, where annual income is no more than EUR 75 000. Only that, ladies and gentlemen, if the Senate amendment is introduced in the way it came out of the committee, according to which all persons, i.e. those who also earn up to 150 thousand euros... I see here a practical problem, namely how the courts will examine it. Theoretically, it should be examined whether, on the day of the action, Because this is probably the right date, the person, the reason who wants to benefit from this privilege, accounted for himself on a simplified basis. It is not enough that he will present tax returns from last month or year, because he could, for example. Yesterday or March 15th, no release shall be granted. The amendment as it stands would introduce bureaucracy at this preliminary stage when the President takes the influence and checks whether the privilege is valid or not. And now he would have to carry out a tedious examination of whether or not a privilege should be applied. Imagine this country, because here you will have to look at the tax returns and check what income the plaintiff received in the previous year, whether he crossed the limit of 75 thousand or not. And, ladies and gentlemen, we would create a process, so to speak, in a process on the occasion, I'm going to say this simply, insignificantly. It is not a circumstance of little importance that someone is poor and cannot afford a court, but to that is the institution of exemption from judicial costs, functioning, established for years, and it is known how judges and referees should apply it. But if the court has to deal with this, instead of just settling the case, it's gonna be some bureaucratic monster, sorry for the expression. Senator Zientarski is right that this kind of thing is generally simple, only if we want to use the criterion of a simple case and go away from 5%. Or put up some dam, we could add invoices, a whole bunch of simple things, where, well, actually the workload isn't big. But there is a convention that has been in force in our legislation for years that takes into account the value of the subject matter of the dispute, not whether the matter is more or less simple. That is why we have not decided to rebuild everything from start to finish, but to make some adjustment motivated by social considerations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u116	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Senator, I understand you're... [[I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.]] Well, that's a short... [[Very briefly.]] I'd like to move the discussion to the committee meeting... [[Of course.]] ...human rights.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u117	Minister, first of all, in practice, you can't force banks to... in the form of calling for a settlement attempt... Even if I was wrong, even if the courts were to settle... I've had the same rules many times... I thought maybe the rules had changed in the meantime, but I see they haven't changed. There was a practice of downloading from the settlement... Even if there was a uniform practice, you can't force banks to do that. This is the first case. Secondly, lawyers, well, they won't go to court for free, that's obvious, they'll charge for it. [[Mr. Senator...]] And third, that's taking the authority. Because it was... it was a simple matter, to 1 thousand zlotys, to the top, to the limit to everyone... [[Mr. Senator...]] And that's why these arguments absolutely don't speak to me.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u118	Mr. Senator, thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed to the examination of the third agenda item: information for the Polish Parliament and Senate on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period of July On December 2015, Luxembourg led by the Council of the European Union. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. The text of the information is contained in print No 67. He addressed the information received to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union. At its meeting on 20 January 2016, the Commission examined the information and informed the Senate Marshal. I would like to welcome the State Secretary present at the meeting in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Minister Konrad Szymański. Welcome, Minister. I ask the Minister to take the floor and present the information.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u119	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I am pleased to present to you, on behalf of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, information concerning the two Presidency. One of them ended at the end of the year, and in the course of the other we are. It is so sensible that much of the issues, in particular important matters, and only such matters are worth discussing in the Senate, relate to periods of much longer than 6 months. Continuity between these presidencies is obvious, with the exception of those issues which go beyond any planning, issues which, I say, come to us unplannedly, and we have dealt with such issues both in the case of the Luxembourg Presidency and in the case of the Dutch Presidency. In the case of the Luxembourg presidency, I am thinking above all of an unexpected, growing, above average migratory wave, which has led a large part of this Presidency to be dominated by border management issues, migration management. This was the reason why, in the second half of this Presidency, we had to make controversial decisions on the relocation of migrants, refugees within the European Union, but also the beginning of a discussion which today, under the Dutch Presidency, is becoming a priority discussion on the registration system, the identification system, readmission, return policy, in particular external border control and cooperation with third countries in all these areas. There's a clear continuity here. The second element outside the planning of this Presidency, which has emerged, of course, is the terrorist attacks in Paris, which have led to the focus of sectoral councils on the rapid, accelerated adoption of a highly delayed directive on passenger data, which has an important impact on the availability of data also in terms of combating criminal and terrorist activities. and the acceleration of the controversial arms directive, which is currently in the process and is becoming increasingly reformed, different from the one planned by the European Commission at the beginning. There has also been far-reaching cooperation with third countries. Under the influence of this experience, the European Union has noted that it is necessary to focus on cooperation with third countries from Tunis to Iraq in order to assist them in a technical, expert, sometimes financial, security control, the functioning of services, the judiciary, on everything that makes terrorist activity in these countries much more likely to develop than in Europe itself, although it is very often directed towards Europe. As far as the planned regular aspects of this Presidency are concerned, the Internal Market Report certainly deserves attention. Poland has always supported this aspect of European integration. Another report on the state of the internal market has reiterated the current demands for completing market regulation, in particular services. This is the first case. A separate aspect, a new and very comprehensive legislative package, which is in the process of legislative work, is the digital single market. Here we are dealing with issues such as consumer rights in the digital market, spectrum management, geolocation, geoblocking. The problem of eliminating roaming has emerged from issues of a much more civic nature, somewhere on the side, of course. The third regular aspect, which is currently in very intense legislative work, since yesterday, is the mobility package. From the outset, the package envisaged changes to the Regulation on the coordination of social security systems and, unfortunately, a targeted revision of the Posting of Workers Directive, announced yesterday, adopted yesterday by the College of the European Commission, which proposes solutions which are extremely unfavourable for the development of the services market. We can therefore talk about a certain internal contradiction of this agenda, because, on the one hand, we are dealing with general declarations to complete the service market, to implement the Services Directive, to extend the freedom to provide services, on the other hand, in this specific sector of delegated work, including transport, we are dealing with a draft directive which is completely contrary to competition rules and common market rules, introduces a clear, very clear risk in reducing competition in the services market. As far as energy security is concerned, in both cases, we have had quite a significant development during the two presidencies. The Luxembourg Presidency has focused on the so-called. a summer package aimed at deeper integration of the electricity market. From a Polish point of view, it is important to stress in the conclusions which emerged in December that every type of new energy infrastructure should be in line with the European Union's legal and strategic objectives. These elements of the conclusions were introduced by the Polish delegation to this document, mainly in terms of the investment called Nord Stream II. For the Dutch Presidency, the winter energy policy package has already been announced. These are proposals that meet Polish expectations in terms of the shape of the market. A draft revision of the Security of Gas Supply Regulation and a draft revision of decisions on the transparency of intergovernmental agreements in the field of energy has also been presented. Both projects are currently subject to legislative work. There was a lot going on in the area of climate policy. During the Luxembourg Presidency, we adopted a mandate for the COP21 climate conference, a global climate conference. The mandate meant not to increase the reduction target from a European point of view. At the end of the year, the climate conference achieved its success. The European Union was a regional player. Poland was also represented in a significant part of it, not fully, but in a significant part of it as a participant in regional efforts or regional emission reduction plans. We have also seen the beginning of work on the revision of the ETS Directive. I think this is one of the most difficult regulatory issues, because the final shape of the revision of the European Emissions Trading Scheme Directive will largely determine the competitiveness of not only electricity generation in Poland but also of all those energy-intensive industries that are covered by the ETS. During the Dutch Presidency, we will be dealing not only with the continuation of the work on the ETS, but perhaps also with the outline of the position towards the system outside the ETS, i.e. reductions to be made on the basis of shared burdens between Member States in areas such as housing, transport and agriculture. In the field of the Eastern Partnership, which traditionally from a Polish point of view was an important element, it was rather passive, I do not want to say that the failed, but certainly a passive, unambitious summit in Riga, which despite the war context, because we had already worked, met in the context of Russian aggression on Ukraine. It merely noted the state of play of the case, noted that not all Eastern Partnership countries were equally ready to cooperate with the European Union, it was Belarus and Azerbaijan, and it merely noted the need to implement the free trade and visa-free travel agreements negotiated so far. The last element, which to a large extent affects the Dutch Presidency, is, of course, the so-called issue. Brexit. During the Luxembourg Presidency, we started negotiations on this agreement, during the Dutch Presidency we concluded it, but from what I see it is the subject of information in the next item, so maybe I will not be developing it now, but I will mark it as part of the 2nd Presidency, a very important dimension of the 2nd Presidency, and we will move on to details when we consider the next item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u120	Thank you very much, Minister. Would any of your senators like to ask you a question about the information presented? You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u121	Dear Minister, I'd like to ask you a question like that. There's a lot to talk about. Nord Stream II. Would you be kind enough to give us an insight into the extent of this investment, which I believe is related to concern? the most part of Europe? That's one thing. And two. How much, Minister, are the partners determined? I mean, of course, Russia and Germany. So Nord Stream II becomes a reality? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Konrad Szymański: Should I answer individually or collectively?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u122	Ladies and gentlemen, why don't we ask for three questions, because I'd like to announce a recess at 3 p.m., and the Minister also has responsibilities later. So that I ask you to ask me another question. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. Please, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u123	Mrs. Marshal, we won't be able to discuss these two points by 3:00. Minister, I have a question about our relationship with the European Border Guard proposal. What is the government's attitude towards this proposal?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u124	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask you another question, Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u125	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I have a general question. If you don't mind my asking the Minister... I will say that when I read this report, which was prepared, I am proud of what was going on, I can say, in general within the European Union, what role we, as Poland, have played in many of the issues that the Minister has already mentioned here in part. May I ask the Minister for such a brief comment, of course, as far as possible, on this report? It's not much of a report on your activities, but if you could just ask for a brief comment... And the second question, Minister: climate policy, energy security. When we read here, in the report that the Polish proposal for carbon neutrality has been taken into account, and at the same time what the Minister said about not increasing the reduction to 40% and supporting the development of access to natural gas as an alternative source... Please tell me whether, in addition to the elements mentioned in the report, the Minister has some other proposals that will be put forward in the European Union as regards climate policy and energy security. I am speaking here in the context of these three elements that I have mentioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u126	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u127	The advancement of Nord Stream II... Today we are still dealing with essentially bureaucratic and planning activities. This is an investment that not only has to run between one access point and the other. There is also a need to plan a gas flow, a very large volume of gas, on a market that is relatively saturated. Moreover, on a market whose infrastructure is not used 100%. This raises questions about the economic aspect of the project, given that there are spare capacity in those areas where Nord Stream II will operate. On the one hand, we are dealing with the issue of the consents of individual competition authorities, including the Polish Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, the proceedings are ongoing. On the other hand, there is the issue of the European Commission's position, still unresolved, very clearly extending and, frankly, worrying. This means more or less that in the European Commission we are faced with very different views on this matter. On the one hand, This is a question of application of European Union law, in particular as regards the third energy package, liberalisation and, on the other hand, Complying with the strategic objectives of the European Union. These strategic objectives are not purely political, declarative. The European Union has adopted relatively many documents, well balanced documents, as far as the gas market is a desirable market for gas from a consumer's point of view, from a competitive point of view. The assumptions of this strategy are always based on competition, i.e. diversification of supply, i.e. diversification of producers. Nord Stream II does not meet any of these criteria, and therefore there is quite a strain between the private nature and, of course, economic freedom in the European Union and the political and regulatory requirements for the investment in question. As far as the European Border and Coast Guard is concerned, Poland has in principle maintained a positive attitude to this proposal because we are keenly interested in any measure aimed at more effective protection of the external border. However, some aspects of this proposal are currently being negotiated within the Council on the European Union. Justice and Home Affairs. The most controversial element is the so-called. An invasive clause which would allow the deployment of border guards, uniformed border guards, on the basis of the Commission's comitology decision, within a country which does not wish to do so. From the outset, we have raised doubts about this aspect, not only because it is essential that it should not simply be in the European Union that anyone can deploy uniformed border guards in a country that clearly does not want to do so, but also because this clause can never be applied. If there is a situation where the border country is unable to manage its border, so it has an objective problem It is also a problem, because it is not just a problem of the Union, it is first of all a problem of the country concerned. And for some reason refuses to cooperate with the EU institutions, that is to say, we are already facing a serious crisis of a hypothetical nature, but certainly very serious, because the state does not want to help itself. Adding to this coercion, implementing decisions absolutely contrary to this state is in our view merely adding fuel to the fire. It's gonna take me to say the wiser things. I understand the demand for efficiency. And we have such instruments in our hands, for example, in the Schengen Code. I understand the threat that has worked today in the Balkans, the restoration of border control at point X or X+1 outside the crisis area, and certainly such a technocratic idea that someone in Brussels will calculate that some criteria of permeability or border control are not being met, so that 100 border guards should be deployed somewhere, that is just nonsense. Information commentary. The information refers to the objectives set in time X. She does not refer to any political assessment, she refers to the objectives that have been set, the government instructions, this team, and to what extent these instructions have been followed. These instructions were carried out in each of the specified cases 100%, which does not mean, of course This is a very specific situation. That we liked all the instructions to the same extent as that government team. It's natural. However, the most important thing is that, of course, we cannot talk about a very radical breakthrough in European policy. In all regulatory matters such as protection external border or even like migration, although here we have made decisions that are extremely different from those that we would like, as well as on climate, energy policy, we are going about the same direction. It's going to be applied differently, it's probably going to be expressed differently, because there are different circumstances, but it's not some crack, it's a radical twist. The Polish government maintains the same constructive attitude towards EU policy objectives in all key areas. Carbon neutrality is a concept that has been introduced into climate policy at global level. In the European Union, we use the concept of technological neutrality to protect... to create barriers to such environmental or climate policies that would have a clear and only one impact on the good of energy technology. This is infernally difficult, because the economic account shows that some technologies are treated radically worse than others, and that technologies are treated in a very privileged way in connection with environmental and climate objectives. So it is rather an academic construct, but from the Treaty point of view, it is very important to uphold the guiding principle that should govern energy policy, namely the principle of non-interference in energy mix as far as possible. There is no direct interference with us, but the indirect is, of course, because we have a variety of distributed subsidy systems, we have environmental requirements, and also climate requirements, which treat different sectors of energy in different ways. As far as the other elements are concerned, today is too early to speak of a full position. One thing's for sure about this case. Poland is committed to finding compensation mechanisms for the new climate policy. This climate policy without clear compensation mechanisms Not cosmetic, but clear compensation It will mean huge costs for energy competitiveness and a large part of industry. For now, these mechanisms are outlined in the conclusions in a very general way. We have a modernisation fund, there is potential flexibility between the ETS and not the ETS. We can think of other means that are scratched only by password. This will already depend on legislation, in particular on legislation that we do not yet have on the table. We only have the ETS, we only have the ETS directive we know. We don't have any other elements yet. Work in Parliament is being carried out But, of course, we are in close contact with the working groups that will present this in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u128	Thank you, Minister. You're asking Senator Waldemar Slugocki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u129	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I think this will be a rather important question. This is a question about the implementation of the Europe 2020 strategy, a fundamental document for the creation of socio-economic development on the European continent, as well as within individual national countries. As the Minister is well aware, it is a document that underpins the medium-term strategic planning in individual national countries, especially those that are recipients of measures within the framework of the European Union's cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy. I would just like to ask about the fate of the Europe 2020 strategy. Has the Luxembourg Presidency carried out an appropriate review of the Europe 2020 strategy? And how will we prepare for the next budget period? Are we going to create a new document for the 28 Member States of the Union on the European continent, or are we going to try to revise the Europe 2020 strategy in some way, or are we going to believe that the priorities and objectives contained in it are still valid because, despite the fact that individual countries are implementing national reform programmes, the state of these reforms is sufficiently unsatisfactory that the priorities and objectives contained in this document are still valid? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u130	Thank you. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u131	Minister, the period we are considering is at a time of breakthrough when it comes to governance in Poland. I ask you this because there were far-reaching announcements about what matters and to what extent, and especially how radically, the position of the Government of the Republic of Poland has changed in relations with the European Union.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u132	Thank you. Senator Andrzej Spider.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u133	Minister, I have a question for you as Minister and former MEP. On 28 February the Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán gave a speech on the state of play. It was a speech, among others. the summary of the year 2015. In that speech, he said such words. The problem is that we Europeans do not do what is good for us. I don't find a better word for what's going on in Brussels, like the word "nonsense." It's like the captain of a ship at risk of impact, instead of doing everything he can to keep it from happening, he's been running a non-smoking boat. It's as if the crew, instead of stopping the hole, was arguing about how much water would pour into the individual cabins. A prominent person, Prime Minister of Hungary, has spoken these words in parliament. How would you rate them? What's your view of this case? Because if this is what the Prime Minister of Hungary says, then I think it is only necessary for us to add the word from Brussels and the European Union to the proposal, Lord. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u134	Thank you. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u135	Europe 2020 is one of the great aggregate documents that was intended to change the perspective of looking at many policies. Today it is not, so to speak, very passionately viewed by those who create politics. Of course, the evidence of such thinking is present in everything we do. It is present in the debate on the European Semester and in the creation of all the post-crisis instruments in the euro area, which aim at at least to set a framework for economic reform. However, this is all happening in a much more national way. The European element is only a benchmark here. Surely, the reflection of the Europe 2020 strategy will be most clear in the case of the multiannual financial framework and its revision. We will then see if the direction of change in innovation in general... It could mean very different things. It can mean direct involvement in research and development, and it can mean emphasis on a new way of implementing old policies. I have a distance to such very aggregated, wide and kind of far-seeing documents, because reality This can be seen even in the six-month perspective, being brutal and imposing on us the things we need to deal with here and now, without going away into a very general perspective. Surely the time for revision of the multiannual financial framework will be the time when this discussion will come back to us. She's coming back to us now. We are after the first conference on the revision of the MFF and the element of tension between old policies and innovation, between national envelopes and new ones... not even politicians, but methods of financing... The Juncker Fund is a manifestation of this, at least an attempt to examine the ground and how public funds, rather modest, can stimulate private investment on a relatively ambitious scale. This is a fund that assumes a 16-fold financial leverage. Well, these are very ambitious plans for a public fund, not a speculative one. There's traces of it everywhere. As far as these documents are concerned, after the euro crisis, as well as the crises in individual Member States, public debt crises, they have ceased to be very pressing reading. That's my impression. A political breakthrough and a change. Well, I think that measurements of this kind should be made in a much longer period than a few months. One thing is important: a political breakthrough, including in the field of European policy, is not a directional change, it is not a questioning of the fundamental principles of European policy. Perhaps this is a change of expression, perhaps putting pressure on some things. Surely the most clear element that is seen in Brussels is that the new Polish government retains a very clear and unambiguous attitude of resistance to any attempts to manage internal migration within the European Union. This isn't exactly... It was no longer just a Polish specific request. This is today's demand expressed in a more or less clear way by an increasing group of countries. This mechanism just didn't work, it was a bad idea. You have to look for solutions outside of internal management. This does not mean that this issue is frozen, because this discussion will come back to us in the context of the reform of the Schengen area, but certainly the change in this area is very clear. No one in Warsaw today expects us to support any mechanism of forced resettlement, forced allocation or any other form of management from the level of Brussels refugee migration or strict migration. As I say, this change should be measured in the long term so that a clearer picture is created. Well, change in itself doesn't have to be good. I don't want to go into political philosophy, but the change should respond to the need for change, not be a change for the change itself. As for Orbán, all I can say is that I am impressed with the oratory abilities of the Hungarian Prime Minister. It seems to me that when we talk in this format as here, i.e. the two six-month periods of the Presidency, it is clear that the EU reality is slightly more complicated. There are a lot of funny, absurd or unnecessary things in the European Union, but this is not the whole picture of the European Union. There are many things in the European Union, many important, important policies that should be developed, reformed, improved. It is not entirely justified to bring all this extremely broad spectrum of EU affairs into a single denominator, although I understand that... Well, under these circumstances Prime Minister Orbán thought that in his speech about the state of the Hungarian Parliament he would repaint such a point of reference. All I can say is that everyone chooses the rhetoric he likes. This does not really correspond to this debate that we are taking part in now, today, because here we are talking about details, details, specific policies and specific interests.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u136	Thank you, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Jan Rulewski a question. Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u137	Of course. Minister, I can't thank you enough for this short-term report. From one of these, I couldn't help but hear an outstanding expert saying in a way that would fit your assistant. [[But the idea...]] Only on one matter concerning this Presidency did you express your position. And that's what's bothering me. Don't you think, Minister, that the position of Poland in the matter Nord Stream is too rigid, even political? I do not want to judge him, but I must say that he does not only take into account that these are private investments carried out in open markets, but also the fact that the state parties involved in this process I am talking about Italy, Germany, the Netherlands and England, and it proves that this is not so much for the Polish government as it is for Poles, workers, workers and others who are working in the West. And now, in addition, refugees... In this way the potential of the whole of Europe is being built up, perhaps with damage to Poland. Second question. As part of Nord Stream, the German government proposed a specific branch at the altitude of Kolobrzeg, Koszalin. Does this rigidity of the position of the Polish government affect that we cannot participate as co-investors for the benefit of Polish interests?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u138	Thank you. And I ask you to ask Senator Władysław Komarnicki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u139	However, Minister, I accept your profession. I'd like to ask you a question about a case that bothers me. I'm a businessman. I'm a frontier man. Many, many years my companies worked with the German side. I estimate, Minister, that our companies in cooperation with these huge and, whatever they say, sublime technologies can only gain. I'm concerned, Minister. I've been watching rhetoric and a change of course since the crew changed. I don't know why we suddenly loved England. And I must say, Minister, that the whole world wants to cooperate and cooperate intensively with German technologies, even if I give an example of the famous turbines in our power plants and power plants. That's what I think, and that's why my question is, why such a sudden change of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u140	Thank you. I'd like to ask you a question, Marshal Maria Panczyk-Podniej. Please, Mrs. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u141	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I would like to ask you about migration. Is there pressure in the European Union on the members of the Union to bring about some order, some order of nationalities among those who, in such an ugly way, push into Europe, or will there be unreserved reception of further refugees? And, in this context, are there any priorities when it comes to our country? I mean, does the government have such priorities? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u142	Thank you. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u143	Nord Stream II. First of all, I have an assistant, not an assistant. But I understand that this is a sideline of this intervention. Polish position... [[But dangerous subject, dangerous subject.]] Polish position on the Nord Stream is not stiff. Poles, like many other Member States, show that this proposal is not so scary because it is Russian, which is not interesting because it destroys the market. This is a very pragmatic view of this matter. If we allow Russian gas to be delivered on such a scale and this gas is already present in Central Europe to a rather large extent, it will reduce competition in this market. It's hard to buy non-Russian gas today. It is already difficult to open up the gas market, at least in this part of Europe, more or less to the Elbe line. So if we buy ourselves additional volumes of Russian gas, what we pay only politely attention to, all the talk about a competitive customer market, the consumer, about creating a market where prices are getting lower, will be worthless. That's the point. only and exclusively the desired shape of the market. Of course, the geostrategic consequences of this pipeline are present. The removal of Ukraine's status as a transit country means that we deprive it of significant income, unfortunately some of the few income to the budget today. That means that this country will one day be on the verge of collapse. This means that the European Union will pay once more for the same gas, only in a passive way. Because we, I believe, will not want the Russian border to run on the Bugu line, we will again demand that the Ukrainian country be rescued. I'd like to avoid that script. That is why we pay particular attention to legal issues, because we have a legal order that Nord Stream does not meet today. We pay attention to the shape of the market, to the energy strategy as well as, in third place, to geostrategic aspects. I think this is a very concrete, pragmatic, well-founded position not only in Poland but also in several other countries of the region. As far as the German issue is concerned, I have the impression that this rhetorical change is seen mainly by commentators who would like to see some fireworks in this case. As I understand it, the presence of the UK Minister for Foreign Affairs in the exposé at a very significant place was not related to EU policy but to the security priority as a key foreign policy objective. It is clear to the naked eye that the security objectives and Polish expectations of NATO's strategic adaptation are much better understood in London, whether EU or non-EU London, than in any other European capital Of course, excluding Central Europe, which has a sense of urgency. And that's it. Nothing else changes here. That's not an alternative, that's an aspect. Like regional cooperation, it is not an alternative to cooperation with Germany, it is a strengthening of the region so that it contributes to the whole of the Union, in which Germany plays a consistently key, important, central role. No one's gonna change that, and I don't think they wanna change that either. As far as refugee migration is concerned, this is a very broad topic, but one thing is quite obvious, there are countries in the European Union that have far-reaching, long-term, long-term experience of social and political interaction with the Middle East, and they are obviously more interested, more confident about the ability to manage large-scale migration in their own territory. Poland does not belong to these countries for obvious historical reasons. There's no extraordinary cause here. We, in turn, have experience with being such a "I think it is still very effective" to manage migration from the East. We know how to do it, we know how to beat it. Because this case is not a technocratic issue that can be solved by an official in some office. This is a matter of people-to-people relations, this is about social peace, this is about a certain social balance, and this should therefore be treated more comprehensively. And that is the reason why we are not defending anyone to intensify our own migration policy towards the Middle East, but we ask that we acknowledge the diversity of the Member States. And when it comes to the whole problem, it doesn't mean we're turning sideways either. The European Union as a whole has a migratory problem. But we're offering a different kind of help on this. We offer support for financial assistance, we offer support for regulatory changes, border guards, we offer technical support. Poland increasingly participates and will participate in the protection of the Union's external border outside Poland. I think it's worth noticing. We pay attention to this in Brussels, we say that this glass is 3/4 full, not empty. However, with regard to migration policy or openness to migration or shared responsibility for the migration problem, the refugee issue in the European Union is quite obvious: we do not have such capacity in ourselves, we do not see such opportunities without having to bear enormous social costs, and that is why we will not do so.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u144	Thank you, Minister. Please, Senator Waldemar Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u145	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, I didn't. I'm sorry to hear that. I'll say The impression that Minister Waszczykowski's announcement on the priorities for foreign policy was only about security issues. Therefore, I allow myself to return to this question, which was polite to formulate my clubmate. And I would like to say, Minister, that 3/4 of Polish exports are exports to the European Union: EUR 40 billion Export to Germany, less than 10 billion exports to the UK. I welcome the assurances you make here today, but the public receives completely different information, also from the state, from the government, from Minister Waszczykowski. Don't you think you should have this information objectively, like you? Is that what he's doing right now, handing it over to the Poles and Poles as well? And a question. In my view, this opinion has also entered the international world, which I am drawing up here, such and not other priorities. Did this signal, which the state as a government, Minister Waszczykowski as Minister of Foreign Affairs presented... Doesn't that also make it a little more difficult for you to have a relationship with the Member States of the European Union? And is it not a strategic mistake to build good relations only with a country that is about to decide whether it will be in the European Union or not? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u146	Thank you. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. Please. [[Mrs. Marshal, Minister, let me ask you a question after the break.]] Mr. Senator Borusewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u147	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! First of all, let me disagree with the suggestions made by Senator Rulewski regarding Nord Stream. That's one thing. Secondly, the more I disagree with the suggestions made by the PiS government, which invites the Venice Commission, and then states that the opinions of the Venice Commission will not matter or that it will not comply with these opinions. You can tell us what is the current interpretation of the relationship with the Venice Commission and the situation in which the Venice Commission was invited by the current government to Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u148	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u149	Minister, one brief question. Would you mind, sir? If you remember, and if you don't, we'll find it... If possible, I would ask you to provide us with information on how much it will amount to, more or less, our contribution, and how much, you can say, will affect the euro in Poland during this period as grants. And a second question about your answer. Minister, you said that what is in the report is a reference to what the objectives have been set and how they have been achieved. Could you tell the Minister about some examples of new targets to be set for 2016? If the Minister can. And if not, then... [[In writing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u150	Thank you very much, Senator. I now address Senator Mieczysław Augustyn... [[Voice from the room: He's out.]] He's out. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u151	This debate is not a debate about international relations or international issues, it is limited to the Union, but I understand that the EU's important policy aspect is also Polish-German relations or the perception of Germany's role in the whole EU architecture. I would reverse the logic of reading this situation. I would ask whether it is appropriate to reduce the map of Europe only to one Member State. It seems to me that if we wanted to find any correction at all, this correction would be that we are actually much more emphasising the existence, the presence of other European capitals throughout the complex architecture of the European Union. And if anyone had the idea to reduce Polish European or foreign policy to London, I would argue the same way with someone who would want to reduce it to Berlin. Europe's map is diverse, rich and in some areas we find better understanding in Berlin, and in some areas I'm talking about safety. We find a better understanding in London. I don't think there's any point in doing that. [[But that didn't sound like what I said.]] I get the feeling that what's been raining here a lot, when it comes to how people understand it, sometimes this kind of reduction comes up. I understand why that is. The media must show the case in an understandable way, in the so-called. understandable way, and show sharp alternatives, sharp choices. Well, the field I'm dealing with is very bad with very harsh choices and very sharp contours. It's true, isn't it? It's more of a gray drawing, so... And that's not an exception. The issue of the Venice Commission is not at all on the subject of this debate, because it is not related to the European Union, all the more so to the Presidency. And don't be surprised that I don't think anyone in their right mind is able to comment on a document he hasn't seen in his eyes. Therefore, any representation in the Blanco position that yes or no, from my point of view 'Cause if I was a publicist, maybe I could say more. It is not appropriate at this time. As far as the 2016 targets are concerned, I was talking about these goals. These are permanent targets, aren't they? I have mentioned only those things which are kind of worth mentioning, because they are permanent elements of European Union policy and are crucial for Polish interests in the European Union, because of EU climate policy, energy policy, the Community market, also digital market, migration policy, border protection. That's the whole point... Everywhere, in each of these areas Poland plays a very active, participatory role. In all these areas we have a very specific opinion and this is also a permanent element, I think, of Poland's policy in the European Union.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u152	Thank you, Minister. You're welcome, Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u153	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I don't want to use that word, but... well, you've slipped a little bit without answering mine and, uh, I have a feeling, a friend's question. 'Cause we asked you straight, you can't hide it. Germany is the largest payer to the budget of the European Union, Poland's largest net recipient. This is not just about Polish-German relations. I absolutely agree with you on the subtlety of the issue that you are dealing with and which we are discussing today, but the words of Minister Waszczykowski I don't interpret them, I literally refer to them when presenting the priorities of cooperation and foreign policy. Hence, I would be extremely pleased if Minister Waszczykowski spoke in a similar tone in which you are speaking at the moment, but then he did not say so, as we discussed. My question is extremely transparent, I hope, for you as well. Did such presented priorities of foreign cooperation not affect, have not worsened relations within the European Union, the Polish state, especially in bilateral relations with Germany? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u154	Thank you very much. And you ask Senator Piotr Wach.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u155	Thank you very much. I return to energy policy, which is clearly emphasised in this report. [[I can explain if you don't understand what's going on.]] During the Luxembourg Presidency, one of the priorities was the effective transformation of the European Union towards a low-carbon economy. In fact, there are very good progress in this area, and that is the problem, so I want to ask you more precisely because we are acting in the opposite direction, which is part of what I understand. It is in our interest, of course, to seek free emission amounts after 2020 but the whole couple is going in the opposite direction. At least that's what I think. To what is the trend, what is progress. If the issue of low-carbon energy was just a verbal issue, it would be half poor, but some countries in some periods have already received more than half of their energy from low-carbon, renewable sources, and Sweden has it on a permanent basis. More and more energy companies operate, more and more companies operate without subsidies, without subsidies, without specific prices. Prosumer policy in many countries... Besides, there was also a bill last year, and thanks to the amendment it was finally introduced for prosumers the price of 30 gr per 1 kWh. Everything goes this way to actually destroy us, I mean. It's going to be that we're just going to buy electricity. At the moment, two countries are preparing to be energy reservoirs in Europe, Norway, which is not in the Union, but is a participant in the common economic policy, and Sweden, which is doing it very well. They do it with an electrician and water tanks... [[Question, Mr. Senator, I'd like to ask you a question.]] Here's the question. Why are we going this way? What is our policy to really get involved in this low-carbon policy? I'm asking because otherwise we'll be able to eliminate all our energy, even with these new large blocks with a capacity of about 1,000 MW.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u156	Thank you. Would any of you like to take the floor? Senator Blackbay. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u157	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I asked the question about the quotas. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Konrad Szymański: I do not remember the amounts.]] Oh, okay. And this, if I may, would ask for a written reply. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Konrad Szymański: Of course.]] Minister, if I may, I would like to ask you a few words about the Eastern Partnership that I am very interested in. You said briefly, in two sentences, that this particular element of politics, I sensed, is not well judged by you in terms of performance. The report states that Poland, together with Sweden, took action on investments for infrastructure links, strengthening the stability of partners with a view to local communities in the field of energy efficiency, water supply or access to basic healthcare. Could you tell the Minister whether this will continue to be a priority for us, so to speak, for activities with even better results that you will draw and we will be able to hear about when we sum up 2016?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u158	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u159	I'll start at the end. I have referred to the most important act in relation to the Eastern Partnership and the process in the Eastern Neighbourhood Policy, and I am talking about the Russian Summit. It is clear that the last 6 months, maybe more than 6 months, is a period when the European Union's attention begins to focus much more in the south than in the east, for various reasons, not only because of objective criteria, huge conflict, also a humanitarian disaster in the south, a completely different situation in the east. Objective circumstances should indicate that we are dealing with at least symmetrical events, symmetrically important events, while activity, the creativity of EU policies towards these countries has clearly weakened. This is not always because of EU policy. The destabilization of Moldova is not an act dependent on Brussels, it has happened there and has affected very significantly that today our relations are in some sort of suspension. We need to find another method or wait for internal changes in Moldova, because for various internal reasons this country has ceased to be the primacy of the Eastern Partnership. In Riga, we only dealt with a certain status quo. These are important things, and I wouldn't want it to sound like it's nothing. Free trade agreement, visa liberalisation are all important things. Except you can't see creative thinking about the future, about what's going on with these countries. Some of them, as long as they wait, will simply slip off this road or will turn consciously, rather slip away than turn. As far as low carbon is concerned, this is a huge topic. Poland is not a completely neutral country in terms of emission effort. Poland has been reducing emissions to a very large extent since 1990. It is not true that the Polish energy system, and even more so the industry, did not spend huge money on emission adaptation, on improving efficiency. It's not like we're standing completely sideways or sideways. But one thing is obvious. The ETS, which is pushed forward in Brussels, is, from our point of view, unacceptable in principle, because it federalizes the cost of CO2 emissions at European level towards countries that are in very different financial positions, in different situations, as regards the displacement of funding, investment in the energy system, and in fact undermines the certainty of investing in energy. Please note that investment in energy is de facto impossible across the European Union either they are on a very creative basis at the border of state aid, such as Hinkley Point in the UK or the implementation of Energiewende in Germany, or simply do not exist, of course, except for one area, namely renewable energy, which is subsidised. This is the only energy element that is implemented in the European Union at all. I think there's something wrong with this system. If we ask why in Sweden is there a greater willingness to move to a zero-emission economy, it is closely linked to the fact that the willingness of the average Norwegian or Swedes to pay three times the electricity bill is higher than in Poland. And that's a fact. We may have a different attitude to this, we may think that this is the environmental irresponsibleness of Polish citizens, but I think there are other reasons. The reasons are closely related to the fact that the displacement of Polish wallets in this area is less, that the excellently larger percentage of Poles lives on the border of what is called energy poverty. Therefore, playing with prices only to achieve an even higher emission rate is simply politically irresponsible. And that's why, I think, most of them. ♪ unless all of them ♪ The political forces believe that stopping the European Union's climate policy, seeking compensation in this policy, trimming it is a reason for the Polish economy. I no longer want to go back to the issue of Germany, I think that in this exposé, which is not the subject of our conversation, it was very clearly indicated. Minister Waszczykowski made it very clear that we acknowledge and appreciate the fact that the German economy is mooring for the whole region, including Poland. But to what conclusion politically translated, this is a separate matter. It is certainly the case that the Polish Ministry of Foreign Affairs wishes to see a larger group of European capitals, not just one, but it also does not mean any course that would be conflicting. I didn't see that. I also did not notice in my business that Berlin would become a more troublesome country than it had been until now. There are matters where we can easily find an agreement. There are issues such as climate policy, such as some aspects of energy policy, where it is simply harder. This is a fact, there is no point in being offended, but it is worth remembering that, because it is simply risky to place all your expectations towards the European Union in one capital.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u160	Thank you, Minister. Senator Jarosław Oremski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u161	Minister, it is fascinating how Senator Sługocki is trying to convert you to understand Minister Waszczykowski as he understands, not as you understand, but that is another matter. I have a question about the negotiations with the United States. Mr Morawiecki's statement of great openness and interest in the transatlantic agreement is well known. Please tell me whether there has been any progress at this stage during the Luxembourg Presidency, whether Europe really believes in the rapid conclusion of the negotiations, or whether there is some slowdown and negotiations with the United States will be a bit like earlier negotiations on Turkey's accession to the European Union.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u162	Thank you very much. Do any of you senators want to ask the Minister another question? You're welcome, Senator Wach. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u163	I'm actually going on with what I said. The Minister answered me well, but maybe I was imprecisely expressing myself in this lengthy statement... That is, the fact that we are holding back too far from a low-carbon policy, I understand. The fact that we want quotas after 2020, I understand, because we are building new blocks that will be relatively modern, relatively large, and we want them to work, that is understandable. We're not gonna change that energy mix overnight. But I asked mostly why national politics... In part, I understand that the previous power was not going this way for social reasons either, but why, when we are dealing with a kind of new opening, we are not going to de facto change energy policy in such a way as to go in the direction in which it changes in many countries. The subsidy is a fact, but it is getting smaller and smaller. A growing number of businesses... Prosumers are being subsidised in some way because they have such a price... But this is moving more and more towards small and clean energy producers. Last year there were periods when the Germans had the price of energy... I'm talking about Germany because it's close and the transmission is easy, although we don't have a good network, it's gonna be built in Lithuania... But we're becoming increasingly uncompetitive, even though we're putting a lot of money into it. This policy is wrong. [[Question, Mr. Senator, question.]] The EU's reduction policy is appropriate. And what is Poland going to do and do to get out of this situation, which in some time frame will make us completely uncompetitive?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u164	Thank you. And Mr. Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u165	Thank you, Mrs Marshal, for the opportunity to ask the Minister a question. During his visit to Warsaw, Prime Minister Cameron, the Polish government supported the efforts of the UK in the field of 4, if I remember correctly, the conditions. I ignore quite obvious social issues here, but unexpectedly the Polish government supported the conditions of the United Kingdom to limit European integration, demanding, for example, a limitation of the powers of the so-called. Brussels, in which Poland participates at many levels, even the highest, secondly, in terms of increasing competition, which, in my view, means a wide opening to a rich, large market for British financial services; thirdly, in terms of increasing the powers of the European Parliament, as expressed, at the expense of national Parliaments; and fourthly, it is acceptable for European integration processes not to develop. Could you elaborate on these vaguely outlined issues discussed during discussions with the British Government? Were there any secret clauses against European integration?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u166	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u167	If there were any secret clauses, I would be the last person to tell anyone, but to my best knowledge, there are no secret clauses, this process was extremely transparent. He was scratched in Prime Minister Cameron's letter. Although we will come back to this again, because this is, as I understand it, on the next item of the agenda, but let me briefly say that, in principle, we agree that the process of European integration should be better controlled whether it's the Member States, or it's the national parliaments. Better control is not a dramatic change. The clear strengthening of the role of national parliaments in the process of European integration is a sensible solution, as it offers an opportunity for integration to be a little closer to people and more responsible, and perhaps to be treated with greater understanding. I think national parliaments are the only way to achieve a better understanding of the integration process. The European Parliament has not ensured this over the years and will not ensure it to the extent necessary. So it seems that this is actually a reasonable solution. As regards competitiveness, this is a repetition of the agenda, which has been a common agenda for Central Europe and the whole so-called. the northern bagel, which stems from the belief that the Community market is one of the most important resources of European integration and should be developed rather than rolled up, with which it has been different in recent times. As far as TTIP is concerned, I don't know how to measure progress in such processes, because they are very long and you can say that... [[In euros, for example. Because there was a question of the euro.]] Excuse me? [[In euros...]] Why don't we discuss this while we talk about Brexit? Because it's a pretty detailed issue, it's going to be discussed separately. In the TTIP case, the entire list of doubts has certainly grown recently, but this is the consequence of the negotiation progress. Because when we talked about the generals and how many thousands of euros will be left in the pocket of an average, hypothetical European And that's the kind of message we've started with. This was a very general level of discussion. Now we've gone into sector-specific considerations, and it turns out that in a lot of things, Whether it is for the purposes of para-court or out-of-court control of contracts and investments, whether it is for agriculture, whether it is for the energy-intensive industry, there are doubts. But that's the nature of negotiations. If we weren't in trouble, we'd be past the end of the whole case, and it's gonna last, because we're talking about one of the biggest agreements here. Globally, this is one of the biggest trade agreements. So, in principle, it presents huge opportunities for Europe and for the United States, mutual benefits, but there are a lot of things in detail that need to be straightened out. This also applies to Polish interests, directly Polish interests. Because both in agriculture and in terms of the position of the energy-intensive industry, due to differences in energy and gas prices, in particular, as a raw material... These are issues that are very difficult to reconcile. The full opening up of the market in this area would be very difficult for Europe as one which, moreover, has given itself high gas prices, as a result of a specific policy towards suppliers, and has given itself high energy prices for various reasons. I think this is all of the cases, if I've seen right on the list, she's getting more and more chaotic... I think I've already answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u168	Thank you very much, Minister. I remind the High House that we are considering item three of the agenda: information on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in July December 2015 Would any of your senators like to take the floor on this, ask you a question? Mr. Senator Rulewski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u169	I understand that the Minister is in a hurry, it's understandable, because the plan didn't predict everything. But you have raised a very important point, Minister. And I would like to know how much Polish interests, especially in agriculture, were included in the TTIP negotiations with the Americans. I am talking about negotiations on an agreement, including liberalisation of markets, particularly agricultural ones. As you know, Polish agriculture... All indications are that it is our wunderwaffe, also in Europe. Meanwhile, American subsidised agriculture, even modified with other protectionist objectives, is a threat to ours. What did the Polish government do to protect the big Polish agricultural market, as was the case with CO2 quotas?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u170	Thank you. Are there any more questions? Please, Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u171	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Since it's nice to listen to you and we'll probably see each other again next year... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Konrad Szymański: No, no, I promise to come early. If you let me go today, I'll come early.]] Nevertheless, let me ask you one more question. Minister, I have read your interview on the negotiations between the European Union and Turkey on refugees... But that's what the Minister said. I'd like you to share something else with us. I am referring to your observations on Turkey's prospect of accession to the European Union. Is this something connected to the negotiating elements... Of course, to the extent that the Minister can say.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u172	Thank you. Are there any more questions for the Minister? Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u173	Just a quick question. In the light of these and earlier events, let's say, since the second half of last year, do you not feel that Poland is in Europe on the margins of other countries' interests, except, of course, the UK?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u174	In a minute, Mr. Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u175	No, I do not feel that Poland should be on the margins of European affairs. The Polish voice is listened to, especially in these matters which I spoke about, because we have made, sometimes separate, constructive, sentence. So that I have not observed any radical hesitations in this matter. As far as agriculture is concerned, there are two things. The first point: we have already rehearsed in the negotiations with Canada that we really have an amount to agree on. Because the market in question will never be opened in 100%, it will be the quoted market. And the second thing is the quality standards of food production. There are big discrepancies here, big tensions. The agricultural environment raises far-reaching doubts about the liberalisation of this market. But this case isn't over, it's in progress. And I think that agricultural issues will be one of the main issues for countries such as Poland and France, which must be resolved, must be, I would say, addressed correctly in the course of these negotiations. [[Thank you. Does Senator Jackowski want to ask...]] [[Mrs. Marshal, could I remind myself so immodestly... of Turkey?]] Well, the European Union is not in the best condition today to expand by anyone. Maybe Montenegro's gonna squeeze through. It's not a key strategic element, it's a big expansion burden. And that's probably gonna be hard. Expanding Turkey from a formal point of view is a subject that is on the European agenda, but it is a subject that is on this agenda and there is no clear time horizon for its implementation. I think that today is far beyond any possibilities of the European Union and, for example, this is a very distant event over time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u176	Thank you. Please, Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u177	Thank you very much. Minister, I have a question. The Luxembourg Presidency had some dynamics related to what was happening in Europe. We're talking about the period of July. December 2015 Well, we can see that at first... They have evolved the positions of some countries in relation to the issue of immigrants. Could the Minister say how the Luxembourg Presidency reacted to the tensions that arose between the EU countries in relation to the common policy in relation to the problems of immigrants or the lack of it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u178	Thank you. Would any of you like to ask the Minister a question? I don't see any calls. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u179	I pointed out in my introductory speech that the Luxembourg Presidency was the time when this, I would say, experimental pilot decision on the internal management system for refugees and migrants within the Union was taken. I do not think that this is to be repeated precisely because the experience of implementing this decision, which is not stunning, the evolution of experience at all with immigration and refugees, indicates that today the centre of gravity is moving where Warsaw was the centre of gravity from the beginning, in particular this government, i.e. to the external border and to cooperation with third countries. It is where humanitarian aid can be most effective and there are sources of problems. So the expectation that the problem will come to us and we will solve it with intra-EU methods is simply unrealistic. Maybe there were politicians back then who thought it was gonna shut down in hundreds of thousands. Today we know that it is closing in millions and today we still have no guarantee, although we have done a great deal in the last extraordinary summit with Turkey that this issue will not overwhelm us. Today, even the most experienced countries, the most capable administrations are unable to cope with such a sudden influx of immigrants and refugees who are applying for the status of an internationally protected person. This is an unprecedented situation. The European Union, as such, has always had very high standards in this regard because of its humanitarian responsibility, due to its attitude towards the citizen's relationship with the state, but it has never been so that not thousands, but hundreds of thousands of people at the same time seek international protection. I understand that there are objective circumstances and that these people did not come out of nowhere. Certainly not all of them are migrants. It is very mixed and difficult to define in proportions a group of people. This should not be underestimated because tragedy in the Middle East is an objective fact. These people are leaving their homes not because they wanted to. Very many of them simply have to leave their homes. Europe has its responsibility here, but it must measure its plans to its capacity. And this is the reason why this type of policy, which was applied at the beginning, is today undergoing some evolution, beneficial from a Polish point of view, because the pressure on our country in this area is less than it was. Our country is increasingly offering shared responsibility in areas where this is possible. We shouldn't wash our hands because it's not just someone else's problem.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u180	Thank you very much. The senator wants to ask, right? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u181	Minister, a very brief comment. We know that the concept of national referendums on migration policy is emerging in some Member States of the European Union. Such an idea reported whether it came to public space also one of opposition environments in Poland. In your view, is it appropriate to expect referendums in some European Union countries on these issues in the assessment of the government? And what... I mean, I don't want to ask about the government's position, because it's not the time and place for the government's position, but I'm asking your opinion or the opinion of the Foreign Ministry. Is this the right process, or is this the wrong process? I'm just asking, if you don't mind, for a brief comment on this.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u182	That is, it is not the role of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to assess political processes in other Member States. It can be said that this is a process from my point of view understood, because the problem of migration is getting out of control, a growing group of people, citizens have a feeling that, contrary to the announcements of politicians - Nobody. it does not prevail and that there are aspects of this process that are worrying. Some initiatives are therefore emerging, namely one initiative in Hungary, which is already advanced, is notified and is being conducted in Parliament, and is likely to be implemented. The Polish government has no position on the implementation of similar, similar initiatives in Poland, and therefore my personal, individual opinions would be expressed prematurely here. Then I'll hold off.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u183	Thank you. There are no more questions. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Konrad Szymański: Thank you.]] I would like to inform you that the Minister has undertaken to provide a written answer to the question asked by Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. Thank you, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Mark Rocki. Minister, thank you very much. Can you... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Konrad Szymański: Aha, okay. I thought I had to be on duty here.]] No, no. Now there's a discussion. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Konrad Szymański: I understand.]] Senator Rocky isn't here. Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. Mr. Marshal, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u184	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The debate on the six-month presidency of the Union is turning into a discussion about foreign policy in general. This shows what the position of the Union is and how far we are integrated with the European Union. But there is also a situation in the East related to EU policy. The Eastern Partnership, Russia's aggression. There's also a US policy to do that. The TTIP negotiations had just been discussed. And the next item on the agenda, on the agreement with the British, of course, is also related to the Union. However, the situation of relations between Poland The new government of Poland or the new majority, PiS, whose emanation is the government And the European Union, the European Commission after the elections, has changed far and wide. I think she's changed a lot. There are some fragments left where the continuation is For example, energy issues, such as the issue of the attitude towards Russia's aggressive policy But besides that, everything's changed. And it cannot be abstracted in what we are currently discussing, including on the subject of discussion, since Minister Waszczykowski's speech on foreign policy. After all, this speech gives a general framework for this policy and for this report which the Minister presented today. I appreciate the Minister's efforts to conduct a rational foreign policy in this new situation, but I fear that the Minister's influence is not enough to offset the trends I see in the policy of the new PiS government. And these are the trends of a retreat from this Union in which we are currently participating. These are trends in support of the UK's assessment and vision of the European Union, namely the return to the EEC, and you can see that. And you can see that. It will have far-reaching consequences. This is also far-reaching in terms of policy and our attitude towards the Union and the Union towards us. And the internal policy we're witnessing right now? The conflict between the current government of the PiS and the European Commission, as well as between individual countries of the European Union, is intensifying; this is a conflict from which no exit can be seen. Today there is a ruling, the judgment of the Constitutional Court yesterday the most important politicians of the PiS, headed by the President, declared that they would not implement this judgment. What does that mean? This means that further steps will be taken by the European Commission and the European Parliament, which will result in Poland being hit. Not in PiS, but in Poland. This is a really bad and dangerous situation, Minister. This is a situation that later, after a few years, when the PiS loses its power... Whoever takes over will be really hard for him to reverse the decisions that will be made now. Great Britain is the closest to us. So we want a British guarantee. I'm not going back to history... We want security guarantees from the UK. Minister, this is a very important country, but we can get guarantees and we have them. And we can, and we should renew these guarantees. In NATO, as well as within the European Union. The more closely we are integrated with the European Union, the safer we will be. The PiS government is going the other way. Okay, I'm pointing out the opposite way. By pushing Poland out of the Union. The key issue for us and the greatest threat at this moment is Russian policy, of course, not migration. Minister, the election is over and scaring the Arabs should be over by now. How many refugees do we have in this area? I will remind you that in the 1990's by our refugee centers more than 86,000 Chechens. Were there any problems? Were there any accusations or games from the opposition? We must end this, Minister, by being in opposition. This issue should not be played because this problem does not concern us, but we must be and we should be united within the European Union. It is clear to me that if we want the citizens of the Union, the Italians, the Greeks or the French, to be in solidarity with us when it comes to the threat of the East, we cannot turn our backs and tell them that we do not care about refugees. And what does your government propose? Refugees No, the European Border Guard No, no, no, no, Minister, you have said something about a fundamental issue here. The proposal for forced entry of border guards was and is linked to Greece, which did not cope and does not cope, and in addition refuses to accept border guards from other countries. That was the answer to a specific situation. It wasn't an imaginary situation. We're saying no. And what do we get in return? If we approach the issue in this way, we will not only lose our arguments about solidarity with us in other areas, but we will also observe the collapse of the Schengen area. And Schengen cracks will hit us first and foremost. This is a situation that needs to be described as irresponsible. [[Mr. Marshal, time is up.]] The next part of my speech will be delivered at the next point.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u185	I see. Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Mark Rocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u186	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Senate! The purpose of my speech is to provide information related to the course of the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, at which the Minister presented information to the Sejm and the Senate on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union during the period of July. December 2015 This meeting took place on 20 January this year. A different meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union took place earlier on the same day. The Senators listened to the information about the Luxembourg Grand Duchy of André Flammanga summarizing the Luxembourg Presidency of the Council of the European Union and the information about the Dutch Kingdom of Adriana Palma on the priorities of the Dutch Presidency. The senators also heard the information presented by the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mr Konrad Szymański, on Polish European policy during the Luxembourg Presidency and the future Dutch Presidency. The discussion on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union during the Luxembourg Presidency focused on a number of issues. The issue of the current influx of migrants into Europe was of the greatest interest. The senators asked the Minister about the government's plans to accept refugees in terms of both Poland's commitment to help on this issue and the poor demographic situation in the country. It was suggested that perhaps more active policies should be pursued in this area, while at the same time demanding appropriate financial resources from the Union. During the discussion, the hope of resolving Europe's demographic problems was pointed out by the influx of Muslim migrants. According to Minister Szymanski, a successful experiment by Germany from the 1960s, consisting in opening the labour market to Turkish workers, would not have succeeded today, because since then the labour market has radically changed and highly skilled workers are being sought. According to official German data, 80% current migrants are unable to find a place in the labour market. The Minister acknowledged that a more active migration policy might be needed. The constant influx of the Ukrainian population into Poland is not part of a thoughtful policy, but rather of the facts made. It is necessary for the State to develop a concept of dealing with labour market gaps, which is a problem for most European countries. According to Minister Szymański, migration policy should also be selective to some extent, as it is not indifferent to the host country of migrants, whether they come from countries where cultural, social cohesion is relatively high or on the contrary. The recent years have shown that social processes, which are spontaneously occurring in Western European countries, are linked to the cultural and social diversity of the influential population and cause very serious problems. During the debate, the senators also asked about the government's position on the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership, paying particular attention to the difficulty of agricultural policy negotiations. Minister Szymański made his listeners aware of the complexity of the negotiated agreement. The reason for this is above all the serious differences in the existing legislative acquis of the United States and the Union. There are others. an approach to the Digital Agenda as a whole. There are also large differences in energy costs and raw materials costs, which affect the competitiveness of certain sectors of the economy, especially energy-intensive sectors. The Minister agreed that it was extremely difficult to agree on issues relating to agricultural production, among others. because Europe has a fundamentally different attitude to food safety issues than the United States. Minister Szymański was also asked for an opinion on the debate on Poland, which took place on 19 January in the European Parliament, and the expected response of the government following the announcement by the Venice Commission of its position on changes to the Constitutional Court. According to Minister Szymański, which he gave during the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, the government's mere request for an opinion from the Venice Commission is proof of its importance, but in his view it does not exclude the government's right to a possible dispute with the opinion of the committee. At the end of the meeting, the Minister assured the present government of trust in the European Commission, the European Parliament, the Venice Commission or the Council of Europe and not only of not treating these institutions as hostile by definition, but on the contrary, of treating them as institutions with which Poland wishes to engage in meaningful dialogue. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u187	Thank you, Senator, for the report on the committee meeting. And please take the floor of Senator Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u188	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! For starters, a few insights. I would like to express my personal opinion. Minister, it is very good to listen to you not only feel that what you say, you know, but also that you believe it, and that is important when people say what they know and they also believe it. And what I have heard here, I personally receive very positively, despite various reservations, which are probably going somewhere. There's only one thing that raises my question. It is a pity, Minister, that among the current rulers in Poland, you are, I think, the only minister who has made such a good impression on me so far in the High House, who in a convincing, factual and good way speaks about what is good for Poles as a community. And that's my personal observation. And one more observation that Senator Andrzej Pajak referred to here, giving an example of the guru currently in power, Prime Minister Orbán. I want to say and quote people... I'm sorry the senator isn't here, but I'll tell him at break. In the year 2000 Tony Blair In other words, a person from a country who is very popular today by a commanding camp said that: "Europe is a Europe of free, independent, sovereign nations that have decided to share their sovereignty, given their own interests and common good, achieving more together than we could achieve individually. The European Union will remain a unique combination of intergovernmental and transnational things. Such a Europe can, thanks to its economic and political strength, be a superpower A superpower, but not a superstate. This shows our role which we should play in building a strong Europe, a strong European Union, by being part of what the Minister said today from this stand. I like it because it also identifies itself with what was said when Britain's foreign minister was asked where he sees friends among Europeans. And that's what it sounded like today. I think it's good, too. The Minister of Foreign Affairs of Great Britain said this: Friends we have in our country, and with all the others we do good business, and we do not do bad business. And I think that this element of community and doing common things is important for Poland. We shouldn't be talking about what you were talking about just a moment ago, the marshal was the ones who would take a third road on their own. The path the Poles accepted is the path of belonging to the European Union. It was today that the debate was changing. If we look at trade in foreign trade, we can see that a penny of these $200 billion concerns cooperation with the European Union. And this cooperation is growing in many aspects of research and development. When we look at the report that was prepared for the Luxembourg Presidency... I would like to speak with great pride about Polish initiatives to support the internal market, which is part of supporting the foundations of freedom. Climate policy, which aroused so much emotion... I think the Minister has shown here a very important thing: that we are aware that we cannot accept unconditional acceptance of ever higher reductions. We also need to talk about what he was so clear about and what I think Professor Wach will say in his speech... about our direction of development in this area. So we need to implement these best elements concerning the European Union on the Polish market. These are also elements of increasing innovation and productivity, as I have said many times here, also when talking about the budget. We in many cases cannot yet talk about the same parameters about whether it is productivity, whether it is productivity, whether it is other elements of the old Union, e.g. Germany, Holland, Great Britain. I would like to say that I very much like what concerns the Minister's position and what has been happening over the last years in the field of foreign policy of the so-called countries. Eastern Partnership. Of course, more can be expected, but the political conditions that the Minister spoke about are things that show that not all ambitious programmes can be implemented. But what is important is the report that Poland and Sweden have taken initiatives in favour of countries that are east of us: infrastructure links, strengthening the stability of partners, projects for local societies in terms of energy efficiency, water supply and accessibility to basic health care. All the elements that are in the report that were in the discussion and presented by the Minister are faced with one reef, in my opinion. To the reef in the form of a political position of Law and Justice. And the country cannot be seen only from the point of view of its economic achievements, in isolation from politics. You can't do that. Unfortunately, the policy is closely linked to economic effects, effects on energy policy, climate policy, etc., etc. If we are to be a country with the position described in the report presented by the Minister, we should also know the following without any thought: there is no third way for Poland in Europe today, together, I do not know, with Hungary, Slovakia and something else. We can build some coalitions, which the Minister also spoke about in his speech, but a project called the European Union, I believe, offers huge opportunities. We Poles benefited With regard to the elements relating to the changes that have taken place, whether in the gross domestic product size, whether in education and other things that are easily measurable in a fantastic way. These years, when we belong to the European family, Poland certainly did not waste. That is why I finally have a request and a message, especially to the ladies and gentlemen of the Senators of the Law and Justice: do not seek the political state of the third road. Let us change and construct Polish interests towards all countries in the European Union, but let us not say that this neighbour is good, and the bad one, let us not share everything that we share in Poland and in the European Union. Finally, I would like to recall the opinion of the American economist, who from a distance looks at what is happening and what is happening in Europe. And he said that Europe as a whole, as well as every Member State, every single country, should adopt a broad investment programme, widely understood investments. Rifkin is talking about investments to start the third industrial revolution. At the same time, strong foundations must be created so that this ambitious project does not fall apart and burn on the pan. Therefore, what concerns the European Union's projects, this stability and unity, clearly set objectives, is all very important. Let's not look for the third road. As Rifkin says, the third industrial revolution may be something that Europe needs, but I think the political direction should be set. Let us look for our role, strengthen our role, build a strong position of Poland in the European Union. This is today and for the future our family and that is where I would like to end. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u189	Thank you, Senator. Please speak to Senator Piotr Wach.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u190	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister because it seems to me that both the speech and the answers were very good, evidence of a deep knowledge of things and, actually, I would say very calm, substantive. Attention at all. It's just a little thing. The enlargement of the Union is likely to slip through Montenegro. I think it's gonna slip because it's actually a tiny country with a population of 650,000 and already owning the euro as a circulation currency, so it's hard to be different. Even the green light would have to be given here if, of course, other negotiated conditions were met. First, I'd like to say a few words about general matters. We have a strong European Union that pays off very well, and under no circumstances should we act on its weakening. It has brought us a lot of benefits, and it can bring us a lot more. The political side of this is as important as the economic side, so it seems wrong to move towards only the sphere of the economic community or the EEC and some other ideas that are born. The Schengen area is also very important to us. We are slowly becoming a large exporter, as many people have said, last year it was EUR 180 billion. Many goods are transported through our country, and therefore there is also a lot of personal traffic, movement of goods, personal traffic, and therefore the functioning of the Schengen area without additional administrative difficulties or control is a key issue for us. I also think that it may not be worthwhile to play on specific topics and issues with specific groups of countries, especially small and ad hoc groups. Of course, this issue is complicated, but we should have strong, stable partners and in this way, being a country on the outskirts of the Union, provide ourselves with a strong, stable and credible position in relation to the East in general. I think you understand that well, although in the implementation there is It's much harder. I think it's a little different outside politics, a little different for the internal market, but there's always a danger. Now I would like to move on to the 2 policies that have been discussed here, with one question I have asked. I'm gonna talk about them because she's here, I'd say, a pretty far-reaching analogy. One is an energy policy and the other is a migration policy. As far as energy policy is concerned, we have very outdated energy based on coal, we are renewing it in the coal direction at the moment and actually a lot of investment decisions are made and some of them implemented. There is no turning back, you have to do it, the more that the blocks that are built and which will be built I'm from Opole, among other things we expect two blocks to be put there. It's carbon blocks. Of course, they are much better both in terms of efficiency and emissions. They will have to function for a few decades. So that the fact that we are fighting for free emission quotas after 2020 is reasonable, as is the external policy, which, if it were to cool down a little bit, would hinder the drive of the Union towards total non-carbonism, as well as the proper elimination of fossil fuels and in particular coal. With fossil fuels, it is better to treat brown coal, also due to German energy. We could argue here whether it's right or wrong, but we can't win the issue alone. This is a fight. At this point, actually, he's already lost. But the question is, how do we reduce our losses? That is my thesis, and I think it is fully justified. One thing is that we will have modern energy blocks for coal, but we should not have these other ones in the future, completely. As far as renewable and low-carbon energy is concerned, however it is discussed, it is less and less discussed about its ineffectiveness. I repeat: less and less. It's not like... This can be seen above all on the example of Sweden and Norway. These countries don't just have a huge part of... Among other things, water resources and water flow. It's a thing that wins no matter what, because in folding with prosumers, so with small energy producers that you pay and who can do it... Please note that in recent years the concept of Internet of Things has emerged, i.e. Internet of Things, this is precisely related to this, namely control, because individual low-carbon production depends on the sun and possibly small windmills, and this in turn depends on the weather and the season. On average, it is known that at another time of year there are good results in terms of photovoltaics, and in another part When it comes to the wind. It is Europe which also manages and has already partially managed. For example, Sweden and Norway are preparing to be And they're already here. The energy reservoirs, and hence the excess energy, will be taken over in the form of water tanks and water. That's not all, they're building up transmission capabilities, for example cables on the bottom of the Baltic Sea, some of them are already there. The result will be that just relatively cheap energy, and she's already at many moments, time intervals, is cheaper than carbon... The tariffs will depend on the day, including in international trade. If we don't adapt to this, we're gonna lose this thing. Of course, the Polish economy is flexible, multifaceted, so it will not collapse. Nevertheless, it is right to defend as long as possible the possibility of generating energy from coal, but only to the extent that it is needed due to the newly built large modern blocks, at the same time it is necessary to work intensively. Although it is to the Minister of Economy or the Minister of Energy rather than to you We're going to be in a very difficult situation in the near future. So that policy is right, but at the same time intensive internal effort is needed to change the situation so that we have opportunities for renewable energy, because price issues are changing dramatically, including prices of photovoltaic sources and the conversion of such energy into energy which is used, i.e. not only for hot water, but also for energy which is transmitted to the grid, also by small producers. The possibilities of storing such energy are also changing dramatically. And those who store, they put the cables, short for now, say, to the Baltic countries, but also to us, within the open market soon... Soon, i.e. in the 10-year perspective, there will be a situation that outside will be able to buy this low-carbon energy cheaply without special subsidies and we will have no title to defend the combustion energy. Countries that have gas power plants, including Germany, will be intensively defending those power plants that have different dynamics. That's where you start those powers faster, and that's a whole different way of doing it. And we're gonna lose completely. And less about migration issues. Here's the same situation. [[Mr. Senator, time's up.]] If your marshal had given me two minutes... I'm not gonna do it again, otherwise I'd sign up again. As your marshal thinks. [[Mr. Senator, it's two minutes, please.]] Thank you kindly. I want to make an analogy here. We have been against migration from the beginning, against these large amounts of migrants from Syria and the Middle East. And that was actually the right thing to do, because those who were too open have to back off. But our rhetoric shouldn't be completely against it, because we're gonna lose on it. We should adapt in the first place to the reception of migrants from the East, which is probably happening, but also others. These are inevitable processes, and they will happen if not in this 5-year period, in 10 years or in the long term. The structure of the population is changing both in us and in Europe, and without a sensible policy in this area, which on the one hand will formally slow it down and slow it down, and on the other hand prepare us for it, we will not be ready for challenges that will arise in terms longer than one parliamentary term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u191	Thank you very much, Senator. And I ask Senator Jarosław Oremski to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u192	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator Blackbay provoked me to speak. I don't think there's a third way, there's no alternative right now. Poland will not be safer, Poland will not be richer outside the European Union. Even if somebody made plans like this... I think watching the primarys in the United States could cure that kind of thinking a little bit. This lack of an alternative is a fundamental element. I do not think that anyone seriously thought that outside the European Union Poland would be safer and richer. It seems to me that there is a very serious institutional crisis within the European Union that there is a certain gap between what the public thinks in each country and what the media and political elites are trying to say. We are dealing with more and better electoral results... I don't want to say populist parties, but parties that are outside a certain canon of liberal democracy. This phenomenon is, in my opinion, more likely to occur in the former Europe or Western Europe than in our part of the continent. There is a problem of legitimacy. Brussels has so far been legitimized by some efficiency. Now the European citizens of this efficiency... It's constantly catching up on problems that are created or that the modern globalized world is creating... The Union is still late and gives an inadequate response to the challenges. There's a problem with legitimacy. That's all there is to it, a certain ballast, some overregulation that the UK is trying the most to counter right now... It seemed to me that so far it has often been so that European integration took place two steps forward and one step backwards. In recent years, when this institutional crisis began, the elites say that only ahead. This tension is therefore increasing between the untenable citizens of the European Union's countries and leading politicians. Please also note that we are dealing with some soft German hegemony. Their mistake is now a mistake across Europe. This is partly due to the fact that, to some extent, the rest of Europe has deserted as far as decision-making is concerned and tried to drop these decisions on Germany. Our interest in Orbán or Cameron, in my opinion, is not due to the fact that we always had good relations with Hungary, and after 2004 the Great Britain became a neighbour of Poland by the numerous emigration of Poles. Our interest stems from the fact that they are politicians who, in the discussion about the European Union, try to give some alternatives, to do a little bit of different thinking. And they represent what is most important in Europe, i.e. a certain diversity that gives us the chance to find the best practice, the best solution. If we continue to go into non-alternativity, we will reach the wall together with the whole European Union. When we talk about the only way to develop the European Union, we should also see a problem. When we talk about the Dutch Presidency... There are serious considerations as to how long and how long the Dutch will try to make everything more integrated and for Europe to be a Europe of one speed, and how long will the Dutch, who will necessarily be at the core of the European Union and who are always in the middle of it, be able to afford a situation where there will be not even two but many speeds? Of course, it can be dangerous for Poland. But between the fact that the European Union is the best solution and the fact that sometimes you have to think in terms of black, worse scenarios, there is no contradiction. I also believe that creating good relations with the United States or developing a common position within Central and Eastern Europe is not an act against the European Union and may even prove beneficial. Good relations with Germany are the absolute foundation of Poland's foreign policy. I don't see any other idea here. We will be a partner for Germany when we can talk about those things that are very different within the framework of our common neighbourhood, and we will be able to talk about them effectively also if we can maintain a balance in discussions with other capitals. In my opinion, there is a dispute and this shift in accents concerns this particular issue. However, I feel no concern about the fact that there is a third road. I can't see her yet. I see the European Union's institutional crisis and cross my fingers for this crisis to be resolved and for Europe to return to the path of economic development and competition vis-à-vis the rest of the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u193	Thank you, Senator. Senator Blackbay. Five minutes, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u194	I'll try very briefly. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Two words to what Senator Oremski said. I'm glad I provoked your senator to speak because I like to listen to you, Mr. Senator, as a person who doesn't belong to the PiS or the Platform, see what's going on here. I want to clarify what I said and what, due to the rush, maybe didn't sound very clear. I do not deny that the element of dispute and discussion is one of the foundations of progress. It is a dispute between people who have different views, but do not take offense at each other, discuss and present arguments. I'll say it again... Janek said you praise the Minister too much here. The Minister presents various points of view that come to us because some of Poland's and Poles' policies should be above national policy. As for the choice of the third road, I would like to say this: I am writing my concerns on the basis of what I hear in the political debate. I'm gonna do it again. Especially from the leadership of Law and Justice. And as my teacher once taught me, remember, in politics the impression is more important than the facts. And the impression of looking for the third road today is something that bothers me. I'm not saying there's a solution... I also subscribe to the fact that Poland does not have a third road. And the other thing is that I also agree with this. The fact that all that needs to be corrected, what needs to be removed, what needs to be improved, is a normal element of progress, because there are no finite things in terms of organization and functioning. To confirm this, I would like to say that I've already shortened my speech. Also within the framework of industrial policy, Poland was one of the countries that was strongly involved, and this is in the report, in the high-level group on simplification, i.e. Poland was one of the countries that initiated a number of simplifications in terms of spending money and achieving various types of objectives, tasks under grants that the country receives. Because it's obvious... someone who's been in touch with EU money knows what it's like to use EU money today. Poland belongs to these countries. So this discussion, Mr. Senator, was also from Poland. I hope so. - Just like the Minister said. That we will continue to do good things, we will come up with even better things, we will submit them and we will carry them out. Finally, I agree with the senator, too, so... I don't know why, maybe I'm misreading... If the question of what is happening in Europe regarding elections, I fully agree with the senator, and it is in Poland that we see very well, namely the assassination of liberal democracy is part of today's policy in the Polish state. Poland is a good example of this, Mr Senator, I fully agree, Europe is the place where... [[That's the spirit.]] Oh, here we go. Keep it up. Let's go. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr Senator, this is a really beautiful, great speech by Minister Szymański concerning the role, place, perspectives of Poland, and on the other hand, this relativism, when we hear that liberal democracy is an outrage and we are closest to Hungary... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Of course...]] I'm about to find out I'm the second kind, I'll take it. [[I didn't say that.]] And that's the threat. So just in this direction... I can't see the other way either, and the two speeds you were talking about are also a threat to Poland and within the framework of I'm not gonna quote that anymore. The reports on what actions were taken by Polish representatives in the European Union, concerning the prevention of... Because a natural element, which is a huge threat to Poland, i.e. restrictions on Schengen, building two speeds... But unfortunately, it's happening, and it's a threat, and I hope...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u195	Mr. Senator, five minutes... [[I'm sorry, thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. Thank you, Senator. Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u196	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! You may have noticed that, unlike usual, I did not want to participate in this discussion, but I am a red lighthouse. This is a conscious choice, because, Minister, I simply feel sorry for you in human terms. It's a pity it's not a small part of you. In addition, a young career was devoted to Polish participation in the European Union, but also to joining European integration processes. However, in my opinion, you are in danger of being alone in the long distance, because here none of your colleagues have responded to your speech, apart from the routine questions of Senator Jackowski, in fact on this point at your address have any... none of your surroundings have given you the opportunity to acknowledge, correct or supplement this information. I feel very sorry for you for that. And the point concerns, I would say, the second political contract in Poland's history. The first is that the colleagues devoted a lot of attention and organizational means to adopting the baptism of Poland. It was also a European, world contract. Soon it continued, but how favorable it was, it is still alive to this day. And this second political contract of Poland, independent Poland, is about European integration. This discussion, therefore, is today's meeting, but in my opinion this information should produce a deeper discussion. I tried to smuggle it into some questions relevant to Poland, but it did not, unfortunately, meet with any reaction or reflection of my colleagues, the Senators of the PiS. But what does that mean? That means you don't have any support in your politics. This means that you are either leading an authorship policy or, as I say, this policy is dominated solely by short-term electoral effects. I'm just saying, fellas... I would like to appeal to you here: but the point is that you should be responsible for your fate as a result of the electoral judgment. For at least 4 years, Poland understood its role as being cut off from your chaplain, from your chaplain, which is Father Rydzyk. Father Rydzyk... [[This is a perfidious insult.]] ...it's not just a Eurosceptic. It's conscious... He expresses his beliefs, views of a small group of voters, but he is not, as I understand it, a chaplain of the PiS. He is only one important clergyman, important in matters of faith, but to no extent, in my opinion, he should not be the chaplain of the PiS. In particular, it should not suffocate European policy. Why? Because the essence of this political contract today, after 11 years, or actually after more than 20 years of talks with Europe, because first there was the period before the entry into the Union... So there is evidence that every year Poland gains on this political contract. This is not just a question of investment, these 300 or 400 billion PLN in a new perspective or much more in the past, that is above all the import of technology. Many countries gained money and ended up in economic ruins, while Poland Mr. Professor, Mr. Senator Hare Maybe it was better to prove it Finance is only a few percent of the investment, but in some cities or municipalities it is the only money for development. That's what it looks like. In my town. Bydgoszcz would not have the money to develop, it would only have the money to last, and thanks to this means the city is developing. Another capital is coming into the city, even from faraway Indonesia and China, which means that we are dealing with a multiplier effect. But I say, it's not just an influx of capital, it's also an influx of technology, including social technology. It is said that the PiS is Eurosceptical. I say it's not true. PiS in the current trial... [[That's not true.]] ...is the brake of Europe. [[That's not true either.]] It is a brake on Europe because, bearing in mind this great interest, the acquisition resulting from the opening occurs in unfair alliances for all those to whom such a Europe does not respond or who, which nobody wants to see, demand more from this Europe. Because England wants to be in Europe, it's just asking for some kind of bribe. [[What's wrong with that?]] She's already received it... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'll figure it out. It was perhaps £1 billion discount plus other facilities, and now it demands, perhaps, even more and wants Poland to guarantee this bribe. [[He's taking care of his business.]] He's taking care of his business. And I'm responding right now. What will Poland achieve as a result of supporting the UK in its disintegration processes towards Europe? What's the price? If I were malicious, I would say this: Poland pays for this British policy because it introduced 500+, so to speak, selling Polish children in England. But don't take it... By agreeing to take away family allowances from the children of migrants, he actually launches a parallel process, adding 500 zlotys to the migrants. So it's a brake. But the brake is also that it is a departure from the policy of the Civic Platform. I remind you of what the Civic Platform... [[You suffer for this 500 zloty.]] ...offering and what happened to the fact. That she would not just be a member of the European Union, that she would present initiatives... It was an ambitious task. I don't know if it's fully realized. But there's no denying that at least. Now, on the issue of immigration, Prime Minister Tusk has taken the side of all those who are looking at the whole process... other than the European core, especially Germany. And he was on the side of business, I think, Polish. So when I asked the Minister how we were accepted, if we were marginalized... I say that Poland does not participate in the development of European integration. The development of European integration is not self-reliance or sovereignty. Because if the Minister claims that he shares these views, he says that Britain is right, that it is limited... that the role of the European Parliament is overstated, that integration processes should not be further developed... I'm asking if Poland brought e.g. such an initiative that really identification with the European Parliament and its authorities is understood in Poland at the level that we understand electoral processes. Because the truth is that the European Parliament... [[Mr. Senator, time's up.]] Yes. Miss... Oh, my gosh, Mr. Oremski, I thought I was the last one and now I wanted to exercise my right to five minutes... But Senator Oremski has the right...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u197	Mr. Senator Oremski. [[So if you... can you make such a switch?]] No, we'll ask Senator Oremski now. The senator will be able to return to the stand after Senator Oremski. [[Good. 'Cause I was just...]] Mr. Senator Oremski. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u198	Indeed, the Luxembourg Presidency 'Cause that's what we're talking about. She didn't take care of Rydzyk's father. That's where I agree. But I'd like to get back to the problem that Senator Blackbay was talking about. I didn't try to value the new moves that appear in Europe. They may be a threat, but they may also be a chance. I ran away from calling them populist movements. I merely put it in such a way that they are beyond a certain consensus of understanding the narrowly understood liberal democracy. And my problem is that I believe that right now, within the European Union, and perhaps the whole democratic world, we are facing a democratic crisis. That a certain balance between the institutions of liberal democracy, the democracy of the people and the free market that formed after World War II, or even was further created in the 1990s, is being re-evaluated. That there is a very clear conflict between the democracy of the people, the majority democracy and the institutions of liberal democracy. Such tension exists in Europe. Please note that we are dealing with the phenomenon of single use lots This is also the case in Poland, where the faces of the leaders introduced two new forces to the Polish parliament, although not to our House. The same is true in Spain, both on the left and on the right. There's this kind of movement. also in, as it seems, the strongest liberal democracy, which is Germany. And my point is: if Europe is to continue to develop, there must be a certain empowerment of voters or citizens in Europe, a new co-optation for elites or a far-reaching change of elites. This process is going to hurt, it's going to be a disturbance to what we've gotten used to so far, but I take it that's the essence of the problem that's happening in Europe right now. I think that... I'm going to refer to the next point here, but I understand that Mr. Jan Rulewski would attack that we would be a brake if we agreed to everything the English side wants, or if we were blocking what the English side wants, paying off, as it was defined here, bribes. Except I'd say these bribes are different. If the Germans tell us Nord Stream II is business as usual, that this is just an economic element, I would say: it is also a concession to Nord Stream, and it is also a bribe in connection with the harsh state of affairs in Berlin. So I would rather look for such arguments; and in a moment there will be a discussion on point four. Absolutely elsewhere. That's what I think. There are problems, so I don't value liberal democracy here, and I think liberal democracy will collapse if it doesn't open up to the voice of the people. Because this conflict really exists. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u199	Thank you, Senator. Mr. Senator Rulewski. Yes? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u200	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator Oremski, when you compare roles and German participation in selfishness, it is also worth remembering English, because Nord Stream is not only a matter of Germans. I am not defending the Germans in this regard. But it is a matter of several companies, including English. And I don't know if the British Prime Minister would even accept discussions about whether or not he could limit the role of the British concern in this venture. I would like to return to this, Minister, that integration processes in the world, but above all in Europe, have no alternative. I will no longer mention what Europe was 50 years ago, what still threatens it. After all, practically here, in this Europe, they shoot somewhere every day in the name of the right of some people or of our own people. And just to make fun of myself a little bit, I'm gonna say that Europe is shaking not even when they're shooting, only when the football championship game takes place. English, German, Polish-German or Polish-English sentiments return then. And then all of a sudden, these nationalisms. Which are decorated with thousands, if not hundreds of thousands of flags They show that Europe is still far from being integrated. I think that today's information should also take this out. At least that's what I'm suggesting. It is true that Europe, and here I agree, at this stage at which it is wobbling, where proposals from bipolar Europe are presented, when there are divisions, and in Poland it is strongly fueled populistly by the PiS... Because it is said that the euro is a curse for Poland, even though counterparties say the opposite and that they will not trade with Poland if there is no euro. But even if all this were taken into account, it would be necessary for European integration in Poland to go from political level to basic level. Europe lacks awareness, people, citizens lack European identity. In our textbooks, our schools do not teach the young people, the one who will finish the work of Solidarity, the work of freedom, the work of European integration, about European identity. We do not teach them what Pole means today, what Europe means today. In the educational reform that PiS is proposing... I would suggest that this chapter on European identity, which we have built together with other nations and which is our goal, be written down. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u201	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Czesław Ryszka made his speech in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. Would the Minister like to take the floor again and comment on the senators' speeches? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u202	I'll try very briefly. It is impossible to refer to all the elements of this discussion, because it was an extremely wide range and it would take time. I have the impression that for some of the opposition, the worst news of this whole debate is that in no way can one find even a piece of canvas on which one could build a hypothesis that the government is planning to exit Poland from the European Union. I have the impression that in many speeches there was such a kind of regret that it cannot be concluded in this way. I can assure you that if we want Poland to leave the European Union, I will make this perfectly clear. As long as I don't say it, let's not discuss which way or third or side or rear. It's very dupey. I have the impression that it's very difficult to base it on any facts. However, all this does not mean that Poland wants to be a spectator of the European process, to look at European processes and to have internal feelings about what is happening on this stage. No. Poland in connection with accession is an actor of this process. And to be honest, the worst thing that Poland could do in this difficult time for the European Union is to act neutrally, passively, regardless of what happens in the Union. Today in the European Union there is no single scenario that would give us credible assurance that everything will be okay. A few years ago, many politicians thought that this was a mechanism so well shot and so well constructed that it spins itself and that only a matter of time is the linear growth of different types of policies, more and more European added value... And today in the European Union, I don't know if in Poland... On such occasions I have doubts whether this awareness is large enough in Poland. In many countries of the European Union, where this problem has been affected, there is a growing conviction, including the social belief that European elites do not control this situation, that something has gotten out of control, that our sublime administration, our sublime methods of regulation, our sublime policies Presumably the most sublime in the world; no one with such precision, with such knowledge and competence regulates public reality as Europe And this highly educated political bureaucratic elite do not control important political processes in Europe. And this is what was mentioned in this discussion, i.e. legitimisation by effect. It is true that the European Union, with its various problems and experimental ways of justifying its existence, has said so very often: perhaps it is a sharing of sovereignty, perhaps it is something extraordinary on a historical scale. It's all true. But see that we have added value in terms of the fact that a given thing works better. And people in Europe, in Poland, said: well, in fact, it's spinning, so let's go this way. Unusual, very hybrid, unusual, doubting national sovereignty, but let's go... At the moment of the eurozone crisis, one fundamental certainty broke. That we are able to control the economic processes. At the time of the refugee crisis, second certainty broke. That we are able to control the social processes. It turns out that the world around us has a powerful influence on where we are. Therefore, if the European Union does not start reforming for good and for bad... Because these may be pleasant moments, but also sad moments, just like they always do when they're adapted. Suddenly you have to move differently, you have to unwind, you have to find new solutions, although perhaps not every one will be just as good, perhaps some will be hard on us, for example. But if the European Union does not start to reform, it will either go uninhabited, as it will, without trying, some other international organisations that I do not wish to mention by name There will be Parliament and the Commission, they will all meet, but it will not matter any more. Or there will be an implosion, that is, a slightly boiled atmosphere in some Member States will result in purely anti-European detonation. The only thing that can be done today is to help Europe reform itself. Therefore, the processes that are taking place in the political background of the European Union, which we may have ambivalent feelings about today, must be taken seriously. They don't always have a good reason. Some of them are, in fact, a symptom of despair. But if we do not find a way to make the pains, doubts and fears that occur in Poland to the slightest extent, but in the west of Europe are very strong... If we do not respond to these fears, if we do not address them properly, we will not do anything good for the European Union or for Europe. Poland takes any reform proposal in substance. We are not a country, and we are certainly not a political camp that would think that the only thing that can be done about this is to sit in the audience and clap, deceive yourself and your own people, say that everything is very well with the European Union, everything is impeccable. Reality screams. Not everything is impeccable. There are things that work well, and there are things that crumble. There are also things about which the growing number of Europeans have great doubts. And that's what needs to be done. It is a question of political leadership, it is a question of plan, it is a question of ability to adapt to new conditions. Therefore, I would not share the belief that the only choice we have is either to brake or to run. It's all more complicated than that. We as a Member State of the European Union And we've been a member country for a long time. We must take part in a very experimental process of adapting the Union to new conditions. There will be moments when we agree with many actors in this process, but there will also be moments when we disagree with them. And that's the best we can give them. To tell you honestly what is good, what we believe and what we do not believe. If we are stuck lying that everything is great, that everything is going very well, then we will lead ourselves and all our friends from the European Union to the edge of the abyss, deceiving each other and saying that it is very good. Not everything is very good and not everything is very bad. It's just more complicated. As I say: the linear perception of this process, the claim that it is really just a matter of dynamics and time, and the linear increase in Brussels' competence is a nonsense solution. It's too simple a scenario. We need better, smarter and more creative scenarios. And I think that's what it is. In the two crises I have been talking about and which are a key reason for the need to adapt and reform the Union, Poland has played no negative role. Poland is not a cause... it is not an element that strengthens the eurozone crisis, and it is not an element that triggered this crisis. Poland is not a country that has placed its hand in the refugee crisis. On the contrary: Poland retains a constructive position in both cases. We want to find a common solution. That doesn't mean we have to keep quiet. This does not mean that if someone assembles the post-crisis euro area at the expense of the integrity of the internal market, we will continue to smile and clap. No! Then we will say that the integrity of the internal market and the transparency of the whole process for non-euro area countries is important, and not just for us. This is important for the whole of Europe. It's just crucial to all of us. The scale of this organization is important. We can have a very small, intimate Union, a very small club where everything will be very well-groomed, but it won't matter just because it's a small club. And of course such intentions, such nostalgias are understandable and very present in the European Union. The same applies to the refugee crisis. Poland is not the cause of this crisis, but it does not turn to it sideways, because it sees how indirect the consequences of inaction are postponed during time. or the insufferability of the European response to this crisis. That is why we say: border protection Yeah. That is why we say: solving the problem abroad and working with third countries in every area Yeah. That is why we say: agreements such as Turkish agreements concerning aid to Greece or Brexit Yeah. These are the elements that sort of cleave us to reality and allow us to adapt. I find it extremely unfair to the opinion of people who suggested that Poland is entering a specific path It's either inaction or passiveness or braking. No! Poland is to be an active, creative and co-responsible participant in European processes, but this excludes passive clapping in the audience. We must, in substance, not in passion, but in substance, participate in the ongoing discussion. Otherwise, the Union will fall apart. And we wouldn't want that. I'm sorry to say this to those who see it as a problem. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u203	I would like to thank Minister Konrad Szymanski, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, for presenting the information and answering the questions of the senators. I state that the Senate took note of information for the Polish Sejm and Senate about the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period of July December 2015 ( Luxembourg Presidency of the Council of the European Union). High Izbo, adjourn until 6 p.m. [[Adjournment from 16 minutes 45 to 18 minutes 03]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u204	Quiet, please, and please take your seats. I'm reopening the session. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. High Izbo, I would like to ask for the removal from the agenda of the fourth item, namely the information of the Minister for Foreign Affairs on a new agreement for the United Kingdom within the European Union, adopted at the European Council of 18 and 19 February 2016, with particular regard to the consequences for Polish citizens of the provisions on social benefits and free movement. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u205	Mr. Marshal, I don't object, I just want to know what happened. Doesn't that deal apply anymore? What happened?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u206	No, the minister's other duties have caused him to simply not be present at the moment. [[Oh, thank you very much.]] We anticipate that this point will be considered, but at a different time. On behalf of the Minister, I apologize for that, but other important duties have caused him not to be present at the moment. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on one-off allowance for certain pensioners, pensioners and persons receiving pre-retirement benefits, pre-retirement benefits, bridge pensions or teacher compensation benefits in 2016. The text of the Act is contained in print No 93 and the report of the Commission In print No 93 A. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy of Senator Alexander Swede to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u207	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, an amendment to the Act on one-off allowance for certain pensioners, pensioners and beneficiaries of pre-retirement benefits, pre-retirement benefits, bridge pensions or teacher compensation benefits in 2016. This amendment was adopted by the Sejm on 25 February 2016. The subject of the amendment is the introduction, after the article. 8, Art. 8a under which a one-off allowance will not be included in income in determining social assistance benefits and in granting a housing allowance. The main argument behind the proposed changes is that it is a one-off support instrument for low-retirement and pension beneficiaries and should therefore not affect the income criterion when applying for the benefits already mentioned. This will be a positive change for the recipients themselves, and the regulation will avoid the need to amend the provisions on social assistance and housing allowances. The opinion of the Senate Legislative Office on a single supplement is positive. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy adopted the proposed amendment unanimously at yesterday's meeting, and I also recommend the adoption of this amendment to the High House.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u208	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Do any of you senators wish to ask such questions? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. The draft law was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zielenecki: Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, I would like to say briefly...]] Welcome to the podium. Your vote, sir. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u209	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to say briefly that the need to amend the newly adopted act on a one-off allowance is the consequence of a certain oversight, which is included in all three drafts of the Parliamentary Act on one-off allowance. This oversight is that the bill assumes that granting a single allowance to persons who receive the lowest pension benefits will not entail any negative consequences. Of course, with negative financial consequences, both in terms of tax obligations and in terms of social security obligations. It can be said that the assumption was that this should also not have negative consequences for other forms of financial support. The omission was that there was no provision in the Act that provided that this one-off form of support for pensioners and pensioners was not to be taken into account in determining the income on which the right to certain social assistance and housing benefits depended. And it can be said that, for this reason, this amendment implements this request, is the original assumption of the law. And on behalf of the government, I would like to say that we support the law already passed by the Sejm, so that we support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u210	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to stay a while longer. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Do any of you senators wish to ask such questions? [[Senator Rulewski.]] Senator Rulewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u211	Minister, you probably do not speak on behalf of a group of Members who want to update this, but indirectly admit... The government is ill with thoughts. This is another project that we have to consider and make changes in emergency mode. The reason is, of course, one chase of thought, lack of thought and lack of experience in legislative work. My question is something else. Retirement and pensioners are a social group that is accepted around the world. He needs stability. Does the government of good change have a system solution so that pensioners and pensioners are not surprised by the errors in additions? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u212	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u213	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo, the question of the reasons for this, let's say, mistake or some oversight was discussed yesterday during the Senate committee meeting. I was explaining... We were talking about the history of the bill for a one-off supplement. As I mentioned, this oversight concerned all 3 drafts of the law: a project signed by Members of the Civic Platform; a project submitted by the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice; a project signed by a group of Members of the Polish People's Party. It is not that Members, so to speak, worked in a hurry. It's not a secret. This was also mentioned yesterday. That the bill was prepared during the previous term of office before the elections. At that time, this project was subject to extensive consultation, including inter-ministerial or resorting, but nobody paid attention to this oversight. So it's not like it's a project that's been processed at a fast pace, in a hurry. It can be said that the differences with regard to this original version of the project are small. As for the system issues, the Senator's second question, I can say yes. At the moment, given the experience of this year, the experience of this year's valorization, I see the need to change the mechanism that is currently in force, but to make only a minor correction. The valorisation mechanism, as we know, is that we take into account two parameters in determining the valorisation rate: the price index of consumer goods and services and, to a limited extent, the increase in wages. These two indicators are justified. I do not want to develop this thread, but they have a substantive justification and they sort of complement each other at different times in times of economic crisis the price index of consumer goods and services is more important, and at times when economic development is happening, when wages are growing faster. than prices, the wage rate has a greater impact on the valorisation rate. There's one solution missing. And this is the experience of valorization of this year's This means that when we are dealing with deflation, i.e. with a negative price index of consumer goods and services, and God forbid, there will be a lack of wage growth or a slight rise in wages... The point is not to stand before a dilemma or to reduce pension benefits. Such a fuse, an element which explicitly excludes such possibility, does not exist in the pension law. It is different in the case of the valorization of contributions on individual accounts insured in the Social Insurance Institution, where, say, the exclusion of negative valorization, so we can say, occurs. So here I'm sure I see a need for correction. When it comes to changing the philosophy of the valorisation mechanism at all, I think that an opportunity for some substantive discussion on this subject may be a pension review, which is legally foreseen and which will take place this year. So that I would answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u214	Would any of you like to ask the government's representative any more questions? No. Thank you, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u215	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Three lines. The first concerns the procedure. Indeed, all three projects contained this flaw. I think that because Members are unable to predict all the conditions themselves, which bring with them a specific provision. And the path that leads through Parliament does not require that all of this be foreseen. The result is that when it comes to the Senate, there's a serious flaw, and when we don't have enough time to work, we pass it on. It's sad, Mr. Marshall, High Izbo, that we in the recovery room have to admit our mistakes, since we're here to capture them. And that's because we didn't have enough time. Also our legislators, specialists didn't have enough time In order to ask a question in this regard in the ministry of trivial work: does this benefit fall under the criterion or not? This question is always asked in the Ministry, but since it was on the sidelines of this process, and it was not the direct creator of the law, in haste we made this mistake. This isn't the right way. I told the minister. This should not go on, let's go back to normal work, because I am convinced that the resort lawyers, having enough time, would not have passed this issue, and the senacy would surely have, if they had not been under the pressure of time, made such a fundamental mistake absolutely not. The second point that I already raised at the committee meeting also concerns this issue. We all agreed it had to be done. However, let us remind you that we have undertaken a certain experiment not so long ago. Who seems to be checking So that you don't have to keep thinking that something will go into the income, will be included in the income or will not be included in the income. I mean, of course, the mechanism of gold for gold. And then there was a promise... And here I call on the Minister not to throw it in haste or among various other proposals, but to try to make this mechanism, already applied in the Ministry of Labour in the case of family benefits, i.e. the mechanism of gold for gold, apply on a permanent basis to other benefits. Because then we wouldn't have to worry about missing something. Even if it were included in the income, it wouldn't be that bad... And in my opinion, it's ambiguous, or something you actually give someone, should be included in income or not. I think it should be. But it shouldn't be that it's some kind of punishment, like a guillotine. Right? You've been included in your income and you get a little less, but you get In accordance with this mechanism. And the third case that Senator Rulewski raised here. It's very important. It seems to me that this mechanism, which has so far been in place for the purpose of valorizing pension benefits, has reached a certain end to its ability. Because if we make a deal that the central bank is and will be effective in choking inflation And it should be, because it's beneficial for all of us, this mechanism is beginning to be ineffective. Indeed, this pension review would need to be used to discuss this issue. See what it's like in practice when we talk about pensions. Well, when we talk about pension increases, we compare them to inflation, and when we talk about their real value, we compare them to wages. You seem to have to decide something. What is really interested in pensioners is, of course, a comparison with wages, so that it is clear in what relation these benefits remain for wages and what is their purchasing power. When we stay with inflation, it can be that every year in a separate law, e.g. Already next year, we will introduce another one-time supplement, because there is no mechanism to regulate it permanently. But of course, the whole Platform Club is in favour of us fixing this mistake, because it is beneficial for the recipients, we have to do it and we will all vote in favour.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u216	Thank you very much. Would any of you like to take the floor in the discussion? I don't see any volunteers. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. What about the minutes? There isn't. There are no legislative proposals. I therefore close the discussion. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Please read the messages. [[Voice from the Chamber: And doesn't a government representative want to comment on...]] [[Voice from the room: No, no.]] [[Voice from the room: There were no conclusions.]] [[There were no conclusions.]] There were no conclusions, so there's no grounds. If legislative proposals were made... [[...so he would've referred to it.]] ...I would ask the Minister if he wanted to respond to them, but since it wasn't, thank you very much, Minister. Please read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u217	The meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Laws and Petitions on proposals submitted at the 12th Senate meeting to the Act amending the Law on Judicial Costs in Civil Matters will take place immediately after the end of today's sitting in room 182. The joint meeting of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the examination of the requests submitted at the 12th Senate meeting to the Act amending the Law "Family and Welfare Code" will be held tomorrow, i.e. March 10th, 8:30 in room 182.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-09-senat-12-1.u218	Thank you very much. I'm calling for a recess by 11:00 tomorrow. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 18 minutes 23]]
