ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u1	I'm opening a sitting. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I would like to call Catherine Osos, Piotr Olszówka, Krzysztof Truskolas and Sylvester Tulayev to the secretaries of today's proceedings. Piotr Olszówka and Sylwester Tułayev will be members in the first part of the session. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Piotr Olszówka and Katarzyna Osos. I consider the minutes of the 28th session of the Sejm to be adopted in the absence of objections. After consulting the Seniors Convention, I decided to delete the following items from the agenda: - First reading of the parliamentary bill amending the law on combatants and certain victims of war and post-war repression and the amendment of the law on social assistance, - the Commission's reports on the ratifications contained in prints 947 and 948. At its 28th meeting, the Sejm did not vote on the rejection requests: - a government draft law amending the Penal Code Act and certain other laws, print No 888, - Parliamentary draft law amending the Penal Code Act, print No. 878. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Conventions, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering these votes. The group of Members submitted a request to express a vote of distrust towards the Minister of National Education, Anna Zalewska. The application is printer number 934. The committee's opinion is in print No 967. On the basis of the article. Article 115 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 in conjunction with Article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with The Committee on Justice and Human Rights has submitted a report on the draft law amending the law on complaint against a party's right to investigate a case in preparatory proceedings conducted or supervised by a prosecutor and judicial proceedings without undue delay and certain other laws. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The applicants submitted draft laws: - the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal, - amending the Act on the universal obligation to defend the Republic of Poland and certain other laws, - on the amendment of the law on taxation of goods and services and of certain other laws, - on the amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act and the Corporate Income Tax Act. The designs are prints 963, 966, 965 and 969 respectively. At the meeting of the Seniors Convention, objections were raised to the completion of the agenda for the first reading of these projects. These are, according to art. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on The proposals to complete the agenda for these items will be put to the vote in a second. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 The adoption of the proposal to complete the agenda will mean that the Sejm has agreed, in the case of draft printing laws Nos 966 and 969, to the application of Article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. I am now informing the High House that you have come forward with formal proposals. Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of the article. Paragraph 184. 3 point 1 I apply for a break until the opinion of the Supreme Court, the National Judicial Council and the submission to the board of Marshals of the Act on transitional provisions, which will allow the constitutionality of the records to be assessed. PiS is really in a hurry only in matters where the interests of Jarosław Kaczyński's party are important. But every time it comes to people's real problems, you get lazy. Just a few days after the Constitutional Tribunal Act has been passed, we are already working on it because you want to elect the President of the Constitutional Tribunal, who will obey PiS. And the tax-free bill? When are you going to vote on it? The modern law even filed such a law at the beginning of the year. So? Nothing. [[Don't scream.]] It's a pity you're not in such a hurry to support the parents of sick children as you are with the Constitutional Tribunal. The laws governing the system are able to write within a few days and vote them out within a few days. And when it comes to helping families who decide to give birth to terminally ill children, you need a few weeks. Moreover, after these few weeks, it turns out that you give women rights that they actually already have, and instead of financial support, you only offer one-off charity. According to the media, the Prime Minister's office ordered 29,000 cups. zł, and for the care of a terminally ill child, you offer 4,000. Evil? [[Applause]] 29,000. for cups, 4,000. A zloty to take care of a sick child? These are the PiS standards. [[Populist!]] [[Voice from the room: Come on.]] If PiS wants to, he's in a hurry. The problem is, however, that you are in a hurry to fill Misiewicz's posts and to settle your own party interests. [[Applause]] [[How's the treasurer?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u3	Thank you, Member. This justification, in my view, deviates from the request for interruption on the draft Constitutional Court Act. Because what have cups for the Constitutional Court, I don't understand exactly. Mr Borys Budka, the Civic Platform Club, also has a formal proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u4	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Dear Prime Minister, High Izbo! I am formally requesting that you postpone the work on two projects that you are once again trying to proceed under cover of the night for a simple reason. I don't know if the marshal knows there'll be another hearing at the Constitutional Court next Monday. Once again, the Constitutional Tribunal will not be able to deal with the affairs of ordinary people just because the State is the only purpose of its attack during the first year of its term of office that you have just recognised the Constitutional Tribunal. It is next Monday that the Constitutional Tribunal will decide whether the amendments proposed by you to the Constitutional Tribunal Act, which are intended to make you choose only the right candidate for President, whom the President of the Republic will approve, are in line with the Constitution. However, the marshal proposed not to wait for the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal, not even waiting for the transitional provisions, under cover of the night, to proceed tomorrow before midnight over another bill to block the Constitutional Tribunal. Mr. Marshal, I have a very simple appeal to you: don't be in such a hurry, because the next legal buffs you're producing are just bad for you. In fact, the only goal you have set yourselves for the first year of government is not social matters or ordinary Poles' matters. It is about the personal war of one Member who has no responsibility to the Poles, with the President of the Tribunal and with the entire Tribunal. In fact, it's already disgraceful, Mr. Marshal. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u5	Thank you, but I would like to remind you kindly that the Sejm will decide on these projects, not the Marshal of the Sejm. Norbert Kaczmarczyk, the Kukiz club15, also has a formal motion, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u6	Yes. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I submit a formal request for an adjournment and supplementing the agenda with two drafts by Kukiz15. One concerns the comparison of the tax-free amount for each citizen with the tax-free amount for the Member and Senator of the Republic of Poland. It cannot be that in the case of ordinary citizens, the tax-free amount is at the level of PLN 3091 and in the case of parliamentarians, senators, i.e. some higher class, it is at the level of PLN 30,000. zł. [[You've got it, too.]] And if not, then the second project is about equalizing the tax-free amount in the case of an ordinary citizen with the tax-free amount in the case of a Member to reduce our tax-free amount. It can't be that parliamentarians are a higher class, it can't be that we're separated from reality. [[Give up your salary.]] President Andrzej Duda and the Government of Law and Justice promised that the tax-free amount would be raised. [[Voice from the room: No!]] Today it is said that this amount will be frozen and that we will continue to live in this hypocrisy and, as parliamentarians, we will be some higher class separated from reality. It can't be like this. I call for these two projects to be put on the agenda. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u7	I am merely informing you that the bill you are asking for is already on the Committee on Public Finance. [[It's locked.]] This project on which we will vote today will be accepted and addressed to the Sejm for first reading. Then, if there is a request to be addressed to the committee, we will have two drafts on the committee and perhaps a joint opinion will be adopted. The Commission has not submitted a report to the Marshal of the Sejm on the draft law that Mr Kaczmarczyk was talking about, and therefore I cannot accept this proposal as a classic formal proposal. Professor Stefan Niesiołowski, near European Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of the article. Paragraph 184. 3 point 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm formally request a reference to the Court of First Instance. The substantive justification has already been presented here, and Mrs Gasiuk-Pihowicz spoke about it. Actually, there's not much to add. One thing, on the other hand, is, of course, fundamental. The point is that it is a desperate attempt to introduce a system in Poland, where the legislative authority and the government control the judiciary. That's the dictatorship. This discussion that we are not the Polish People's Republic is largely barren. Yeah, we're slowly becoming a dictatorship, and that's the element. This has already been raised, and I will therefore concentrate only on the formal justification. Namely, this law refers to the non-existent code of ethics of judges. Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry, but referring to non-existent legislation is a novelty. Therefore, I suggest we wait until this code of ethics of judges appears, not appeal. I also have a few suggestions for solving this problem. I think it's possible to come up with a committee that would write this code of ethics for judges. [[Voice from the room: But it is.]] Such a commission should necessarily include a prominent ethicsist and moral authority, Mr.Dad Piotrowicz. I think that's clear. I think that this committee should have a young, high-profile lawyer, Mr Andrzej Duda, an academic lecturer with a lot of work and merit, and, of course, the President. I'm very sorry, Mr. President, but nothing can happen without you. I think the words of Immanuel Kant were true to you: the starry sky above me and the moral law within me. [[You're losing it, Stefan.]] So that the President, too, should be on this committee. [[♪ The bell ♪]] For these reasons, I ask you to postpone the referral of this project to the committee. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u9	Message to committee, I get it. [[It's over.]] I, Mr Sejm, understand this proposal in such a way that it is the same as the proposal, with opposition to the inclusion on the agenda. [[As a matter of fact, it is, but it's wider.]] [[It's bigger.]] I see. So we can say that if the opposition is accepted, it can be assumed that, in that case, the proposal will be re-directed to the committee. With your objection accepted. [[Yes.]] That's what we'd do. Ladies and gentlemen, I apologize, High Sejm, of course, for Boris Budka's request to postpone the work on two draft laws, in fact I cannot accept as a formal proposal, because the adjournment may only concern the sitting, but I understand that the motion by Mr Budka may be consummated by two objections to the inclusion of both items in the agenda. I understand that these conclusions can be treated as identical. Thank you very much. [[Yes.]] In that case, we still have a proposal that we should settle from a regulatory point of view, namely the request for a break made by Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz. I will now put this motion to the vote. This is a formal request for an adjournment. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 171 votes against - 254 and five Members abstained. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. In that case, we shall proceed with the vote on Draft Print Act No 963. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on organisation and procedure before the Constitutional Tribunal, print No 963, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 232 voted against - 198 and 1 Member abstained. I find the Sejm has accepted the offer. We proceed with the vote on Draft Print Act No. 966. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: First reading of the government draft law amending the Act on the universal obligation to defend the Republic of Poland and some other laws, print No 966, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Formal conclusion, Mr. Marshal.]] [[The formal application was here, it was written into the formal application.]] [[Voice from the room: Where is the secretariat?]] 430 Members voted. 262 voted against - 167, 1 member abstained. I find the Sejm has accepted the offer. There's a formal conclusion. Formal conclusion, Mr Paweł Suski, the Civic Platform Club. [[But now, after the vote?]] [[Tell me the truth.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This formal request was to be submitted before the vote. [[Voice from the Chamber: Secretariat.]] I have been submitted to make a formal request to convince the High House that this project, which the High House has already voted on, is highly harmful.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u11	But, sir, we are already out of the vote. Excuse me, sir. [[But he volunteered earlier.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u12	I volunteered before the vote. This is a formal failure. [[The Marshal did not allow a formal application.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u13	I apologize again, sir. [[Scandal, scandal.]] I'll keep an eye on the room and ask for a quicker response.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u14	This is unacceptable and has in principle been caused by the ordinary standard of preparation of your laws. This never contains formal conclusions as they should be.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u15	Thank you, sir. [[But he hasn't finished yet.]] We proceed with the vote on Draft Print Act No. 965. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: First reading of the government draft law amending the act on value added tax and certain other laws, print No 965, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. One Member abstained from voting 233 against - 197. I find the Sejm has accepted the offer. We proceed with the vote on Draft Print Act No. 969. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: First reading of the parliamentary bill on the amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act and the Corporate Income Tax Act, print No. 969, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 258 voted against - 170, 2 Members abstained. I find the Sejm has accepted the offer. In view of the proposal to supplement the agenda by a point covering the report of the committee on the government draft law on support for pregnant women and their families, an objection was raised at the Seniors Convention meeting. This is, according to art. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the I will put this item to the vote on the proposal to complete the agenda. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of The adoption of the proposal to supplement the agenda will mean that the Sejm has agreed to the application of the Article. 51 (3) of the Sejm Regulation. Formal conclusion, Mrs Magdalena Kochan, right? Mrs Magdalena Kochan, Civic Platform Club, formal proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u16	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I request that the agenda be extended to include the first reading of the Parliamentary draft law on State aid to raise children, which provides for the inclusion of all children with disabilities in State aid - 500 PLN - regardless of income in the family and regardless of the degree of light decision by the district board on disability. [[Applause]] If we want to talk today about supporting families with $400,000... [[Eight years!]] By the will of the nation and the sovereign, Member. ...if we want to support them, let us support them comprehensively and do not exclude children with disabilities from help with 500+. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u17	Thank you, Member. Only, ladies and gentlemen, High Sejm, I would ask the Member and the High House to remember that the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm tell us that applications for inclusion on the agenda must be submitted by noon. On the 21st day preceding the beginning of the sitting of the Sejm. Yesterday this deadline expired and today, at the moment I can no longer accept this formal proposal, especially since this draft law, as far as I know, was notified last week by a group of Members and is in the process of an opinion. There is no print number yet and there is no so-called. metrics, that's the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Bureau. Are you a Member of this House? [[Yes.]] There you go. I understand that in the correction mode. [[Answers to your marshal's questions.]] [[But there's nothing to straighten out.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u18	Yes, Mr. Marshal. Parliamentary bill on 4,000. He entered the Sejm yesterday at hours. 14.45. The agenda has been extended for today. In fact, one parliamentary bill, such as ours, which entered the previous week, cannot be proceded, and the other, like the one that entered the Sejm yesterday, can be proceded. All I ask is that you treat the parliamentary projects equally. [[Applause]] [[That's right, eight years.]] [[You can dream of eight.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u19	I'm afraid I'll stay with mine. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[We're surprised by the marshal.]] Thank you for this... [[Approval.]] ...for that recognition. I would like to inform you that there was no such proposal at the Seniors' Convention, either on the previous day, as far as I am aware, and on the government project, I received a letter from the President of the Council of Ministers requesting that this project be treated as an urgent project and therefore an urgent procedure. This is a parliamentary project. As you know, there is another form of regulation for these projects. Therefore, with all my will, I cannot accept this as a formal proposal. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: The report of the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the Government bill on the support of pregnant women and their families -- for life -- will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. The vote was 265, against - 157, with five abstentions. The Sejm accepted the offer. At the meeting of the Seniors Convention, opposition to the maintenance of the item on the agenda was raised: Report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft law on the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, prints No 880 and No 920. He is referred to by Mr Budka's formal proposal. This is according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the I will put this item to the vote on the proposal to keep it on the agenda. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of keeping the item on the agenda: Report from the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft law on the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, prints 880 and 920, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. Two Members abstained from voting 239 against - 190. I find the Sejm has accepted the offer. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm should listen to ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and five-minute statements on behalf of the circles in discussions on the committee's report on the draft government law on specific arrangements for implementing the budget law for 2017. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles in joint discussions on draft laws: on the Act on Retail Tax and on the Law on Criminal Enforcement Code and amending the Act on Employment of Freedomless Persons. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in discussions on the other items on the agenda. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to inform you that the Senior Convention adopted a proposal from the Sejm Bureau to consider current information on the government's attitude to the situation of disabled persons and their carers, which was requested by the Kukiz Club.15 The agenda items of this meeting will be dealt with in accordance with the order adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm and the Seniors' Convention. Information on this matter, as well as the list of laws that the Senate adopted without amendments, are available in the Sejm Information System. I ask the Secretary to read the messages, but I warn the High House that this is not the end of the votes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u20	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - to the Secret Service, at 5 p.m. 10, - Administration and Home Affairs together with the Commission for Communication with Poles abroad - h. 10.30, - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 10.30, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 10.30, - Public Finance - hour. 10.30, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 10.30, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 10.30, - Economy and Development - h.m. 11, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 11, - Infrastructure - hour 11, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 11, - Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs - hour. 11.30, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12, - Public Finance - hour. 12, - Investigative to examine the regularity and legality of the activities of public bodies and bodies vis-à-vis entities forming part of the Amber Gold Group - hour 12, - Health-- hour. 13, - Public Finance - hour. 13.30, - Economics and Development in cooperation with the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development - h.m. 14, - Senior policy - h.m. 14, - Digitalisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies jointly with the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and with the Committee on Public Finance - hour. 15, - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 15, - Culture and Media - hour 3.30 p.m., - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 3.30 p.m., - Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies together with the Commission for Energy and Treasury - hour 16, - Education, Science and Youth together with the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development - h.m. 16, - Public Finance - hour. 16, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 16, - National Defense at 5 p.m. 16, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 16, - Extraordinary for changes in codification - hour. 17, - Infrastructure - hour 18, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 19, - Justice and Human Rights at 10 p.m. 19. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Mining and Energy Team - immediately after the votes, about an hour. 10.15, - Parliamentary Group for: Persons with disabilities - hour 11, - Parliamentary Team for the construction of the expressway S6 Szczecin - Gdańsk - h. 12, - Parliamentary Group for the Development of Tourism and Promotion of the Kujawsko-Pomorskie Region - hour 12, - Parliamentary Team for Supporting Entrepreneurship and Economic Patriotism - h.m. 13, - Parliamentary Group for Pro-Family Policy and Culture - h.m. 14, - Parliamentary Group for: Organisation for Health Protection - h.m. 15, - Parliamentary Firefighters' Team - hour. 19. Parliamentary Panel on Culture and Tradition of Hunting invites you to the opening of the exhibition St. Hubert - patron saint of hunters at 3 p.m. 10.30 a.m. in front of the conference room. Jack Kuronia in the new House of Parliament. After the ceremony there will be a tasting of venison dishes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u21	Thank you, sir. I would like to inform you that the Senior Convention has accepted the proposal... I'm informing you that right now... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Penal Code Act and some other laws (Print No. 888) - follow-up. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will now put to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the bill in print No 888 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. There were 196 votes against - 223 and three Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the application and therefore, on the basis of Article. 87. 2 in conjunction with Article. 90. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I am directing this draft law to the Extraordinary Commission for amendments to the codifications for consideration. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law on specific arrangements for the implementation of the Budget Act for 2017 (prints Nos 917 and 949). I would like to ask Mr Sasin to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u22	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law on specific arrangements for implementing the Budget Act for 2017, print no. 917. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u23	I would very much like to ask your Members to remain silent in this Chamber. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u24	High Izbo! I would like to inform you that at the 28th meeting of 20 October 2016, the Sejm submitted a draft law on specific arrangements for implementing the Budget Act for 2017, in accordance with Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. The Public Finance Commission, after considering the above draft law at its meeting on 20 October 2016, asks the High Sejm to approve the attached draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u25	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in its discussion on this item it would hear 10 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and 5 minutes' statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Andrzej Costowniak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u26	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! Before I begin my speech, I will allow your marshal to make two amendments to the above bill. On the basis of the article. Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I submit these amendments. Two amendments: after the article. The following Article is inserted: 19a. The second amendment concerns Article. 23 which is replaced by the following: 23. The Act shall enter into force on 1 January 2017, with the exception of Article. 19a, which shall enter into force on the day following the day of the notice. Marshal, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u27	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u28	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! It has been my honor to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice concerning this bill. This law cannot be considered without a budget law. They're both closely connected. And I think it is necessary to remind, but I think some of us also clearly present a philosophy of budget creation by Law and Justice for 2017 as the first copyright budget of Law and Justice in this term. The philosophy of the budget, ladies and gentlemen, is clearly targeted, points to the citizen and family. Pro-family policy is the basis of this budget not only in its dry records, but also in the implementation of concrete projects about which literally in a moment. The second of these pillars is, of course, security, which is difficult not to talk about today, because those who are watching the situation, both internally and above all internationally, I think, must also focus attention on the security element. As I said, the budget is clearly focused on the citizen and the family. All the actions we take as Law and Justice in our policy are directed towards the citizen as an entity of our policy, not as a subject of government action, which has undoubtedly taken place in recent years. 40 billion PLN for family policies is probably a kind of very good record over the last 27 years, if we are looking at the finances of our country. The 2017 budget is a simple form of implementation of the electoral promises of the Law and Justice relating to the citizen and drawing attention to it. Today we hear many speeches about this project and a great surprise to some of the opposition. Ladies and gentlemen, we show that what is promised is feasible. Today, not only do we promise, but above all we deliver on promises that have been written in our election program. The 2017 budget is undoubtedly a very optimistic, but also ambitious, and, on the other hand, a real and responsible plan. This is a budget in which spending on the citizen is treated as a simple form of investment in and development of man. Less about philosophy and more about numbers, because it is harder to discuss with our opponents first of all. Indeed, the deficit is 59 billion PLN - that is 2.9% in relation to GDP. But let us also remember, ladies and gentlemen, that the safe threshold is up to 3%. Nevertheless, it must be remembered that this debt has been added to it or that the money has been included, which is transferred annually to the FUS, and has always been indicated as a form of loan, which was actually a form of counterfeiting of the financial reality of our country. The 500+ family is more than PLN 23 billion in 2017. What is worth emphasising is 3.5 million Polish families who will benefit from this project. Accommodation+ is more than 200 million for the pilot project in 2017. The project is not only strictly addressed to residents, but it is also possible to implement it by local authorities. What is written as a task for self-governments - I think about municipal housing, but also social housing - is an element of unambiguous support for Polish self-government. What we often forget is free medicine for senior 75+. Here, too, there is a clear indication of progress, a clear increase in the financing of this programme. In 2016, it is PLN 125 million, and in 2017 it is already PLN 560 million, ladies and gentlemen. Increases in the budget for teachers, cops, uniforms or nurses. The defence funds, which I said at the beginning, are almost PLN 37.5 billion, are an increase of PLN 1.4 billion compared to 2016, a large increase, but I think we are all aware of how these expenditures are needed today in a very uncertain situation in the international arena. The funds for modernization of uniformed services - over PLN 1.5 billion will be transferred to the Police, Border Guard, State Fire Department or Government Protection Office. In order to achieve this ambitious plan, we need a major change in our country's reforms, but also what the finance committee discusses every day in its meetings. I'm thinking of improving the efficiency of the public danin collection apparatus. Ladies and gentlemen, we have already introduced several such laws that improve the efficiency of this apparatus. The aim and task of every authority is to improve this efficiency of the camera, which refers not only directly to ordinary tax proceedings. Let us also remember that we are facing a challenge in the fight against large criminal groups, e.g. of international importance. It's a very good bill. I think that it will undoubtedly have a good effect whether it is already having a good effect on the fuel market today. But today there is also a need to bend over electronics, the whole construction sector and a few more sensitive sectors of our economic life. And perhaps what is equally important is a very strong emphasis on the allocation of funds both from our state budget and from European money, which concerns supporting the Polish economy. I think it is also very necessary to make this sound out of this speaker, and not only from this speaker, to show very clearly that the Polish economy is to be supported by European money and is to be a driving force for all of us. The Law and Justice Club, ladies and gentlemen, will support this bill. I also warmly ask the opposition to lean on it and support us in good solutions. [[Applause]] [[It's about kindness.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u29	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Krystyna Skowronska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u30	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I regret that my previous speaker makes a bill that takes money from the citizens, his own banner, but it's a hypocrisy that we're used to. You were talking about real promises and that the citizen would be the subject. No, it's not. It's not in this bill. The Member, my previous speaker, boasted that in this bill there would be a free amount, that you were fulfilling your promises. No, there is no amount free, there is no declaration of the amount free. President Duda introduced this project in December - 8,000. Evil, that's what the tribunal said. The project is gone. You're trying to make a mistake today to put in a project to keep the status quo. What does that mean? That you do not give to Poles according to your promise an additional amount of 5 thousand free money. zł. That's not a promise. You're talking about fulfilling your electoral promises. There is no work on a citizen's pension scheme for customs officers. There's no drug project for seniors, which is 75+. It's not there. What is living+? 6,000. apartments. We built 1 million apartments with support from the state budget. What are you offering us? You are proposing us the National Tax Administration Act and you are saying that the budget will be implemented. Sixty-five thousand. people will not know if they have a job, and the airport security service is a clear example of this. You have proposed such an amendment and today 1500 people who work in subsidiaries or airport companies care about their future or are uncertain whether they will have a job. The National Tax Administration Act that says you're going to implement it, it's a big, big boob. There's chaos ahead, and this chaos is the only thing you're talking about. You know perfectly well that teachers have tried to bribe, I don't know, a lollipop behind the glass. What kind of a raise are you trying to get your teachers to give them? You give them a raise of PLN 30. We've introduced three times at 10%. and it was real support for teachers, as well as for academics. You're talking about money for uniforms that you're putting it in the budget. This is not the content of the budget bill. In this budget we have also prepared and prepared for you on such a given raises for all uniformed services: for the army, the State Fire Department, we have also prepared support for the police. You could have done this project. It's a shame we didn't do this, because just like we've prepared carefully, with the responsibility of the money in this budget, we could give these salary increases. We are talking about using funds from the European Union. It is worth to say that over the years it was the government of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party that negotiated the highest support from the European Union. So? One year of government and a very small use of European funds, at a level of 2 and 3%, so there is nothing to brag about, really nothing to brag about. In the around budget law, the state is trying to take money to support the labour market. I regret very much that there is no Minister Rafalska here, who, as an opposition member, has strongly defended that these measures should not be reduced so that there would be more. From year to year in previous years, we have tried to make more of these measures, and today you are trying to reduce these measures. You're also trying to reduce... you're pointing to the amount of the premium you're freezing, to the welfare fund, and what is this welfare fund? You are not for the citizen, because where you can, you keep the money and about this modest 2 billion zlotys you are talking about in this bill to take it away because you lack this money, and you say it is great. One more thing: in this bill you confirm what was in force - the use of money from the Labour Fund for internships for doctors. Very strong criticism. We were hoping you might find another source, but you didn't. This is another plagiarism. So it is worth to say that this confirms these 8 years: the law on the income of local government units extended for another 3 years, traineeships for graduates extended. Taken from this programme, which was implemented by the Platform, the transfer of money to local roads is also supported in this budget, but we did not plan such a chaos in the implementation of the budget. The budget section by simple cuts of the state can be realized and I regret very much because you should swallow your tongues. All those who once opposed are now hot advocates, and if they could, they would vote for such solutions with two hands. So this is the height of hypocrisy. We have great doubts as to whether you really are geared towards a teacher, because apart from these modest increases for teachers - less than a fig leaf - you are announcing chaos in education. And this chaos in education, as local governments say, is a lack of resources, it's a need for a new reorganization of schools. But in this respect, I think that the criticism of the Minister of Education from this stand will still be great at this meeting, as a motion for a vote of distrust has been made for the Minister of National Education. We do not agree that in a situation like this, when we have led to a decent budget, when we have tried to use a prudent form of spending money, you are trying to change it. And we do not agree that when there were years of renunciation and there comes a time to spend money and activate the labour market, so much needed in a competitive economy, the country from this labour market is taking off money. We will vote against this bill. But once again, in order for you to have time to remember, we would like to present to your marshal a motion to reject this project. Without that 2 billion, if it's that good, you should be fine. And this project is aimed at the citizen and it cannot be said that the freezing of the social benefit fund, which is intended for both government administration, local government administration and workplaces, does not serve those who should be supported, the most in need. That's why there are regulations in workplaces to support people who are in a difficult situation of life, of chance, but also those who have more children, less income per family member. And you were trying to say, we're giving you 500+. We also gave, as the previous government, 40 billion PLN, this 40 billion PLN was in various forms - since kindergarten, support for the feeding of children, this country you do not change, and other forms. So we hate hypocrisy, and you know very well that even finesse is not in your presentation of the project to look for any other sources. Or maybe it would be worth it, as it was said today, in those cups at the Prime Minister's for over 25,000. search [[♪ The bell ♪]] Savings. We are in favour of rejecting this project and, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform, I would like to make an appropriate proposal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u31	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u32	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Minister... Minister, right? There's the minister. I will refer briefly for the second time, in principle, to the Budget Act, because the fact that we are currently debating around-the-budget laws is in fact an excuse for a renewed, sort of extended budget debate. The first thing I wanted to say this time is the issue of the 500+ programme and the associated expected demographic growth, sanation, reconstruction of demographic tissue, because the situation, when fertility falls below 1.25, is already so dramatic that I think it requires special action. Well, two days ago or even yesterday, the Central Statistical Office gave us the latest statistics on births and deaths for the first half of 2016. Imagine that the number of births after the first half of 2016 is only 186 thousand. births. So the progress made in the first half of 2016 compared to the first half of 2015 is only 4,000. More births. This is not a situation that can be described as a success. This is a continuation of the tragedy and a continuation of the crisis that we will have in the future if we radically do not change these trends and this picture. Of course, it is still too early to fully assess the impact of the 500+ programme, but these are the children who are born after the Law and Justice announcement of the programme of this support, which has been implemented, in the raising and development of children. As you can see, the effects are minimal, too small, too minimal, and do not improve the demographic situation. And as I said, without any change in the demographic situation, any other reforms will collapse financially, and it does not make much sense to look at them if we do not improve the implementation of this priority, which is now becoming demography. As far as the Social Security Office is concerned, we still do not have a concept of reform of the compulsory social security system, because the current concept based on social solidarity is impossible to implement in the future with these demographic trends, because society is not jointly and severally generational, as future generations are simply not born, so there is no solidarity, de facto social solidarity in this area there is no social solidarity in this area. And any institution based on false assumptions, i.e. the assumptions of intergenerational solidarity, which is not there, must lead to the collapse of the financial system and must lead to a powerful crisis in the future. If we do not change the conceptual approach to the compulsory social security system, if we do not introduce a comprehensive reform, we will not take this effort, we will not start debating it, then we will inevitably come closer to the financial disaster of the state. And as I said, there is no money that the Social Security Office is unable to eat, especially the social security system so functioning in such a demographic environment. Another element I wanted to draw attention to is the amount free. The State is now introducing a law on the amount of freedom which is contrary to the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal. What this tribunal is, it is, but we have a ruling on the amount of free. And imagine that there will be hundreds or perhaps even thousands of citizens who can make tax statements next year, so-called. PITs, based on the judgment of the Court, not on the current non-constitutional law. What will the Supreme Court decide, which will eventually be the case after further appeals? I'm not so sure that it's not gonna turn out that the tax offices are gonna return to the citizens, despite the state you'd like to maintain, those tax-free amounts. It worries me, because perhaps right now, without thinking about the end of the decision, we are giving ourselves a serious financial crisis. As far as taxes are concerned, recent reports say that the state found PLN 2 billion, perhaps even PLN 4 billion, as some say, in the taxation of closed investment funds. I agree that investment funds are closed to one of the most commonly used gates. tax optimization, and really escape from capital gains tax, but consider whether this capital investment tax is too big or if it does not increase the investment risk too much and whether it will not be... At the moment, the stock exchange is either the last one or the last one in the European Union in terms of stock indices. The situation with regard to investor turnover and activity is also tragic. And if we do not burden investors, instead of helping them, instead of carrying out the Sanitation activities of the Polish Stock Exchange, we will submit such projects, which double or triple already tax the stock market - because it will be capital gains tax, fund tax and dividend tax and corporate profits - then the triple taxation of the capital market will end with an even bigger exit of the capital market and I do not know if European funds and start-ups will be able to start the stock exchange. Investors, on the other hand... What will investors do? They're about to flee to Cyprus, Luxembourg, the Virgin Islands, or anywhere else you can escape with capital and money. Those little ones will stay, pay and cry, and the bigger, smarter ones who can afford legal help will find other gates you won't be able to block. So this is not the way to tax the gates that investors find by fleeing this draconian tax, but it is time to consider two elements in terms of capital gains tax. The first element is the amount free, which is the amount that would not be applicable... As in the case of commercial tax, you wanted to introduce, just as small investors in the context of rebuilding and building their own capital should be protected up to a certain level by a free amount. The second point - long-term capital investment should at least be partially exempted. But not 10 years old, because anyone who has any experience in the capital market just laughs at the offer of 10 years of investment in shares. That's not an offer. This barrier should be on a level of, say, two or three years. And it doesn't have to be a total tax relief. We can do it within 30%, then 60%. We can think about it. But just as the stock market is in a desperate situation and we should act, so taxation, another taxation of the capital market does not serve the sanity of this element of the economy. Finally, I wanted to lean over the amount free in the budgetary sphere. Ladies and gentlemen, your flagship slogan - I am now talking to the Law and Justice - before the elections there was a significant increase in the net wages of workers, a significant increase in the salaries of citizens. This was due to an increase in the level of wages, but the market, due to high investment risks and poor economic conditions, raises these salaries only due to the depletion of labour resources, i.e. due to demographic changes in fact. If we really wanted to have an impact on wage growth, we would have to stimulate this growth. The easiest way to stimulate wage growth would be to increase the amount of free money so that the state's budgetary sphere is the element that would start raising wages and private capital, the private sector would follow this element, because it would have no choice. You don't do that, and then you're surprised there's no salary increase. Selectively, you're selectively raising your salaries in the budgetary sphere, once again, depending on who's screaming more, who's crying more, who's hurt more. Today, you raise your teachers, in a moment's time, the academics, [[♪ The bell ♪]] who previously had the salary raised, will shout that they have not had the salary raised for several years. I therefore call for consideration to be given to an increase in the base amount. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u33	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Michał Jaros, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u34	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Reading the 2017 budget, it's hard not to get the impression that Joanne Rowling is the co-author. This song should be called: Harry Potter and the Polish budget. A little scary, a little funny, full of secrets and hidden costs. But to the point. The draft Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Act for 2017 presented by the government raises my serious doubts. Three years ago, during the debate on the around budget law for 2014, Henryk Kowalczyk said: Given that the social fund is an aid addressed to the poorest groups in the workplace, we do not think it is appropriate for this fund to be frozen. A year later, the 2015 project was also criticised by Mrs Rafalska, Mrs Rafalska, who pointed out that: the next year, those who would most need support will have this fund frozen. Today, on the other hand, the draft around budget law for 2017 states in the explanatory memorandum: The draft law proposes freezing the social benefit fund. The proposed amendment will reduce the expenditure of the State budget on social benefits for pensioners and pensioners receiving pension benefits from the pension scheme. So how do the previous statements of the politicians of the PiS, then in opposition, relate to the current actions of their government? Isn't that hypocrisy in its purest form? Attention should be paid to unrealistic macroeconomic assumptions in the Budget Act for 2017. The government planned that the budget deficit would be PLN 59.3 billion and the rate of GDP growth was 3.9%. We can already see a slowdown in GDP growth, so it will be difficult to reach 4% Next year. According to many experts, economists are also doubtful about the inflation rate of 1,3% in budgetary assumptions. Experts also point out that revenue to the state budget with VAT of PLN 143 billion is also a slight exaggeration and that this will not be realised. It is also worth looking at where the government is currently looking for money. Contrary to the planned increase in the targeted subsidy, e.g. for the activities of support centres for persons with mental disorders, the Council of Ministers has decided to maintain the grant at the current level. Despite the protests of self-help homes and associations, which point out that the current level of funding is inadequate to the real cost of living and needs, the rulers remain firm on this issue. The bill also offers the possibility to transfer funds between national defence and home affairs and administration departments to services for modernisation purposes. Is there not enough money spent on home affairs in the 2017 draft budget? It is also important that the government wants to make a write-down to the occupational welfare fund for teachers on the basis of the basic amount of the year 2012. The Polish Teachers' Association pointed out that this calculation should take place on the basis of the basic amount adopted in the current budget law. Once again, therefore, the policy of carefree distribution lacks funds in the budget for many important tasks. I address the government: Keep your senses. It's time to give up our feelings and follow the rules of economics. Fix your budget. Accepting it in its present form is the way to dangerous spending money that simply doesn't exist and will not be. It is a distribution which Poles and Poles cannot afford. The 500+ program does not solve all problems. In return, you collect hundreds of thousands of funds for various purposes and tasks. This leads to a halt to our country's development. We, as a modern club, do not agree to this and we will not support the around budget law for 2017, as well as the budget law, because the assumptions are unrealistic. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u35	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u36	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I present my position on the report of the committee on the government draft law on special arrangements for the implementation of the budget law for 2017, prints no. 917 and 949. The Committee on Public Finance at its meeting on 20 October this year. by the votes of Members exclusively of the Law and Justice, the Government's draft law was adopted with only a few changes of order and legislative nature. This bill is, I would say, a flagship record of how to save on the poorest. This is demonstrated by proposals for write-downs to the social benefit fund, as well as proposals for the allocation of the labour fund or reduction of the special subsidy for people with mental disorders. In 2017 to establish a write-down for the social benefit fund e.g. for teachers, the base amount from 5 years ago, i.e. of 1 January 2012 A similar arrangement applies to employees in higher education and relates to the personal salaries of 2013 and the social fund for 2017 resulting from the Act on pension provision of professional soldiers and their families is based on the 2011 budget law. A similar reference to the 2011 Budget Act concerns retired officers of all uniformed services, i.e. the police, the Internal Security Agency, the Intelligence Agency, the Border Guard, the Government Protection Office, the Prison Service, the State Fire Department and their family members. It is also unacceptable to move by one year the increase of the special subsidy to the activities of support centres for people with mental disorders, because the draft of the Act on Around the Budget abolishes the provisions of the Act of 5 August 2015 on the amendment of the Act on Social Assistance, reducing this grant from 230% to 200% next year and from 250% to 230% in the following years. This action was extremely dissatisfied with the aid environments, as the level of funding is inadequate to the cost of living and the needs of people with mental disorders. But the government in this group of people, certainly the poorest, decided to save, and it will be the sum of PLN 132 million. To be honest, it's sad and sad. The 2015 Act, dated August, was created as if on the initiative, i.e. in the bud - I remember - there was a proposal from Mr Krzysztof Michałkiewicz and the government leaned on this problem. Minister Kosiniak-Kamish leaned down and the bill entered into force. And today what happened that Mr Michalkiewicz, who is now a minister, proposes a year shift? There has been a change in the narrative of this subject, and today there is no need for support for those in need of mental disorders. High Izbo! The government in today's draft law continues the principle of transferring labour funds to finance post-graduate internships and specialization training for doctors, dentists, nurses and midwives. The principle was introduced in previous years, because of the fight against the economic crisis. But today we are done with this, so the question is: Why reduce the funds by more than PLN 1 billion from the activation of employment, both unemployed and those who are working but who need to be retrained? We also negatively assess the delay in the entry into force of the Law of 22 June 2016 amending the Law on Hunting Law in the field of compensation fund, so much expected by agricultural environments. Hunting damage is a huge problem, occurring on a large scale, but with this environment the rulers clearly do not have to matter and do not matter completely. In fact, they only remember the village when the elections are coming, with their promises that are somehow forgotten. The state budget plan secures funds - it is strange - for the organisation of administration in voivodship offices, and it amounts to tens of millions of zlotys, while there is no funds for payment of these compensations. There will be officials, but there will be no payouts because there is no money to pay those compensations. The proposal is simple: How about these funds instead of the organisation of the administration hand over to simply hunters who, in the old-fashioned way, will pay compensation for the damage that farmers will suffer in 2017? High Izbo! A few more words from today's debate. As usual, acting on behalf of the PiS Club today, he stressed that the 2017 budget meets citizens' expectations. High Izbo, in our opinion, nothing is more wrong. It is so characteristic of the members of the ruling party that there are many beautiful words in the mouth about the country, about patriotism, about Poles, and in fact it is a huge amount of ordinary phrases. And concrete examples of this budget. The tax-free amount remains unchanged and taxpayers living below the minimum of existence or the minimum of social income will continue to pay taxes as they have so far. So they pay, despite the Constitutional Court's judgment, that's not the way it should be. You're bragging about resources for seniors over 75 on drugs that were supposed to be free of charge. And yes, there is an increase in resources, but they go in proportion to the current year. If there were 125 million this year, but there was a bill or settlement from 1 September, next year we increase by 400 million from January, then there are still a few zlotys a month, i.e. a proverbial leaf of vitamin C per month for the senior. Revalorisation of pensions and pensions will be about 10 PLN. Is that what this success is? What about reducing the funding for the Senior-WIGOR programme? Is this also one of the successes and care for the most demanding ones? And this 500+ flagship program. I don't want to say that it's unnecessary, but it's so deeply unfair that he asked for some verification of his records. It was not applied to the lower earners of the zloty rules. It's not there. Children with disabilities are not included, nor are they receiving anything. The need for education for children is, I would say, the biggest one when they study when they are in high school, because it is a certain extension of knowledge, but for adult children, and learners, there are no such measures. There is no support for this, but there is support for children in wealthy families, rich families. And that's what you consider to be your success. I would therefore like to sum up: The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party will vote against this project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u37	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Michał Kaminski, the Circle of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u38	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! There's a saying that there's no such thing as a free dinner. This is what people find out in their private lives, but political parties who rule are also convinced of it. And today we cannot pretend that the debate we are debating, the project that has been addressed to the Sejm, is not the result of the fact that there is no such thing as a free dinner, that promises that were made very lightly both in the election campaign and after the rule of law and justice and the government of Prime Minister Beata Szydło are promises that cost money. Of course, every debate about the 500+ programme, because it is necessarily here, is a debate that will be dishonest if, alongside the obvious good points of this project, it is not fair to say to the citizens that this project, like every dinner, will have to be paid for. The current governing camp behaves a bit like a person who would enter a well-stocked supermarket, drive between shelves with a basket and put in this basket the nicest-looking products, the most interesting products. Everyone can be justified that it is worth putting this product in the basket, only that later you have to drive to the cashier and for these products to the basket to pay for. Today, the Law and Justice Government stands at the register, which is why we need to re-freeze this project. Social fund, debate, because unreasonable proposals will have to be paid for. And it's paid for by the citizens. Any fair discussion on the proposals for law and justice must also involve a discussion about costs. When the government of Donald Tusk frozen the social fund, PiS protested, but then Prime Minister Donald Tusk clearly argued that it was related to a crisis, a global crisis that affected Poland to a much less extent than some expected. At the time, it made sense, and you were criticizing it. Today you say yourself that the crisis is gone. Then why are we hitting the poorest again, why are we hitting uniforms too? You've talked many times about how important an army is to you, uniformed services. For the time being, you're giving uniformed services the laughter that accompanies the ministry of national defense, but with that laughter, the soldiers won't eat. You are not accompanied, unfortunately, by any ideology - either left-wing or right-wing. You don't have an opinion on business. The only view you have on the economy is to find money to cast out your promises to bring you peace of mind, because apparently, despite all the declared patriotism, those words that your current president of television once said - the dark people will buy them - you will address the entire Polish nation on every matter. You think a dark people will buy every promise and not ask how much it costs. But this day will come. You're gonna come to the register and you're gonna have to pay for it. Someday the voters will also account for those promises that, perhaps, sound cool, but for which you need to find money. I want to say very clearly today: it is not that every proposal you make is bad that every idea is bad. That would be unfair. But there is no way to resist the feeling that you have no views on the economy and, moreover, you have terrible chaos. Individual ministers are unable to agree whether you can afford something or not. These are extraordinary things. You talk about economic patriotism very often. These are beautifully sounding slogans, but when it comes to what, you send more checks to Polish entrepreneurs, raise their taxes, do not really care about the Polish entrepreneur, and Mercedes-Benz receives millions of grants from you to invest in Poland. I'm not saying it's wrong, that should be discussed. Many countries do. Only that today the Polish entrepreneur - and the medium-sized one, and the weak one, can ask why there is money for Mercedes, and for us this money is, but in our pockets, because we have to give it to pay for your unreasonable economic proposals. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The European Democrats will, of course, vote against. Of course, we will vote against and reserve the right to always ask you how much your proposals cost, how much the Poles will cost, because in the end they will cost the poorest Poles, because you know perfectly well that the so-called. The oligarchs, as many as there would be in Poland, will manage. He's just a citizen. [[♪ The bell ♪]] He will pay for your lack of sense in economic policy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u39	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, Circle of Members of Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u40	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present the position of the Free and Solidarnia Circle vis-à-vis the draft Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Act for 2017. The meeting of the finance committee hasn't changed our assessment. It is important to stress that the law serves the implementation of the budget, and the solutions contained therein are reasonable and show that the state budget is very tight. For this reason, you should carefully watch every dollar of public money before you spend it. In particular, there is a need to take a favourable look at the provisions limiting budget expenditure in 2017. These are among others. changes related to benefits in the public finance sector, where the social benefit fund is foreseen for former soldiers and police officers. Needless to say, uniformed services are relatively high. Today there is no inflation, prices are stable, therefore there is no need to raise them. Let us remember that, to some extent, this freezing also contributes to financing the increase in the lowest pensions to be made and thus to help the most deprived. Another expenditure, which is proposed to be reduced in 2017, is linked to the reduction of support for biocomponents and liquid biofuels due to still relatively low prices of traditional fuels. In addition to savings, the law assumes the efficient use of the resources available to the State. Here you can include expenditure from the Labour Fund, which is expected to finance post-graduate internships and specialization training of doctors, dentists, nurses and midwives, in the amount of PLN 1 billion. It is also important to finance the membership contribution for Poland's participation in the Convention on the European Space Agency and to finance contributions allowing membership of other international organisations from the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. However, the most important provision of the Act concerns the redemption of loans granted to the Social Insurance Fund for the financing of benefits guaranteed by the State which are due on 31 March 2017. The debt of the Social Insurance Fund vis-à-vis the State Treasury for the loans granted from the State budget for the years 2009 and 2014, which are due to be repaid on 31 March, amounts to over 39 billion PLN. Instead of providing the Social Insurance Fund with a grant, the Minister of Finance of the previous government granted loans despite the awareness that they would never be repaid, except that the loan did not increase the deficit and the grant -yet. In this way, the public debt that the Civic Platform has been hiding for years, and which we now have to pay back. Over the years, the problem of the deficit has been swept under the carpet, but we are finally back to normal, and that's the end of creative accounting. About Free and Solidarni supports the proposed solution and will vote in favour of the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u41	Thank you, Member. Two Members have asked questions. Would any of you like to ask another question? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, the Kukiz Club15. One and a half minutes to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u42	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The question is very simple: What if this occupational social benefit fund were revalorised on the basis of the basic amount that you were talking about, not from the year you were taking, only from the year in which, if we wanted, it would be revalorized? What is the cost of increasing the revalorisation of the social benefit fund which could be simulated? How many billions of zlotys would cost, for example. raising this fund, firstly, changing the base amount and, secondly, increasing the revalorisation e.g. 1 percentage point? How much would it cost? Are those really the kind of amounts that can't be carried out? Please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u43	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u44	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I also want to ask you a question about the social fund, because this is a very shocking case. Why is the government freezing the welfare fund for the following year? The write-down is to be based on appropriations planned in the budget for 2011, 2012 or 2013 depending on professional groups. This will result in a significant reduction, a real reduction in the amount of the social fund that is intended to serve the poorest. I want to ask you how this applies to the slogans proclaimed by Law and Justice, saying how poor people are at the heart of interest. That's not true. It's just hypocrisy. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u45	Thank you very much, Member. I ask Minister Hanna Majszczyk, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u46	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The freezing of write-downs, the basic amount on which the write-down is based on the share benefit fund actually refers to different years, depending on the professional group to which the individual arrangements contained in the around budget law are addressed. This is the result of the fact that in various years this freezing of the base amount took place for different groups, hence in one case the base amount is from 2010, another from 2012 or 2013, but the conditions are as I just said. If it were to be assumed that the base amount would be calculated on the basis of the rules applicable to these professional groups, almost PLN 300 million, specifically PLN 277.3 million, would have to be spent in the budgetary sphere as a whole, in order to meet the needs for the budgetary units to mark the expenditure of the individual units for precisely this purpose. In the case of budgetary units, the creation of a write-down to an occupational social benefit fund is mandatory, of course under different conditions. Therefore, the amount I mentioned would be an essential amount. The freezing of write-downs to an occupational social benefit fund is linked, as is the entire around-budget law, to what is also indicated in the explanatory memorandum of that law, in order to maintain the rules applicable to the construction of the 2017 budget, arising both from national law and Union law. So, on the one hand, it is about preserving the rules on stabilising expenditure, on the other hand, not exceeding the 3% deficit of the sector. GDP. It was therefore necessary to prioritize expenditure so that the sum of expenditures would meet these requirements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u47	Thank you very much, Minister. Will the draftsman of the committee be... Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the Protection of Monuments and the Protection of Monuments and the Act amending the Act on the Protection of Monuments and the Protection of Monuments and the Act on Museums (Prints No. 891 and 924). I ask Mr Robert Kołakowski to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u48	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Culture and Media at its meeting on 19 October this year. carried out the first reading and considered the government bill amending the Act on the protection of monuments and monuments and the Act on the amendment of the Act on the protection of monuments and the protection of monuments and the Act on museums, print No. 891. No amendments had been tabled during the meeting. On behalf of the committee, I request that the Sejm adopt the attached bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u49	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jacek World will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u50	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on amending the Act on the Protection of Monuments and Monuments and the Act on the Amendment of the Act on the Protection of Monuments and the Protection of Monuments and the Law on Museums, Prints No. 891 and 924. High Seym! On 10 July 2015, the Sejm adopted a law amending the Act on the Protection of Monuments, establishing an institution of the Heritage Treasury List. The list was conceived as a form of care for moving monuments representing the world's highest artistic class and having special value for the Polish national heritage. Using a thought shortcut, it can be said that it is a matter of not being sold a piece of the class with a weasel and providing such works with proper protection as well as conservation care. On 31 July last year, President Komorowski sent these laws to the Constitutional Tribunal before signing. He argued that the inclusion in the treasure list and the associated requirements of the owner of the work may constitute excessive interference with the right of ownership. He also argued that both the definition of the heritage treasure and the principle of the State's possible acquisition of ownership rights are too vague. In the so-called. In the meantime, however, August 5th Ub. r. The Sejm amended the Act on the conditions of access to certain professions. He included in it, among others. changes to the Monument Protection Act and the Museums Act. They relate to formal requirements for persons carrying out archaeological studies, maintenance or the care of monuments. May 25th this year The Constitutional Tribunal announced a judgment declaring these solutions constitutional and thus opened the way for the signing of the law. It was signed by President Duda and announced on 24 August. Taking into account the vacathio legis, it will enter into force on 25 November this year. There was therefore a need to adapt the provisions establishing the list of Heritage Treasures to the amendments made at that time, and that is the essence of the law that we are currently considering. The amendment is therefore purely technical in nature, by harmonising the rules. Specifies e.g. the principles of entry in the register of monuments lost, specify the requirements to be laid down for the maintenance and care of heritage treasures, define the duties of the Ministry of Culture in the area of the care of monuments and the financing of the protection of heritage monuments. It also provides for an unusual date of entry into force of the Act, which is 25 November. The point is that both laws: and the one we are currently working on, and the one signed by the President, should apply at the same time. High Izbo! Our turbulent and dramatic history has made Poland not rich in works of art or cultural goods of the highest artistic and historical rank. These monuments deserve special protection, conservation care at the highest possible level and financial support from the State in terms of protection and care of these monuments. Therefore, the vocation of the Treasure List Heritage is undoubtedly an idea worthy of the highest support. In the Seym of the previous term I participated in this work, on this idea there was full agreement and work on the creation of a treasure list. The heritage was in accord engaged by representatives of all clubs. It is therefore a pity that the entry into force of these provisions is delayed by 13 months. Personally, I think that President Komorowski's reservations were excessive in the light of the importance he has for Poland to take care of the most valuable monuments, and this conviction was shared by the Constitutional Tribunal. It is also a pity that it took the tribunal a long time to pass judgment, because 10 months, but let's not go back to the past, better late than never. Today, the matter of this law is going to a happy finale, and the Law and Justice Club will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u51	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Anna Białkowska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u52	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we are proceeding with the Act amending the Act on the Protection of Monuments and the Protection of Monuments and the Act amending the Act on the Protection of Monuments and Protection of Monuments and the Act on Museums. It's Thursday, okay? 11.43, that's the middle of the day. The government has prepared a draft amendment to the laws. Which is even weirder, he took into account the judgment, not the opinion of the Constitutional Court. The project was sent to Parliament with the right reasons for the consequences and the calculated costs. I am a Member of the first term of office, but most of the parliament has taught I already have some regularity, which I do not want to look for in textbooks or scientific studies. Amendments to laws that do not arouse negative emotions, we proceed normally. Those who cause controversy - not only in our country, but in the whole civilized world - are pushed through the night in a derogatory manner of Parliament. The main objective of this project is to amend the Act of 10 July 2015 amending the Act on the Protection of Monuments and Monuments and the Act on Museums and the Act of 23 July 2003 on the Protection of Monuments and the Protection of Monuments. This is a normal evolution of legislation that occurs in each country under the influence of changing internal and external factors. A change in the catalogue of lost mobile cultural goods, which gives them the opportunity to return to their rightful owners, deserves attention. The Act also provides for a provision requiring the applicant to carry out conservation work, restoration work or conservation studies at the monument to direct or carry out the works and studies themselves. A consistent catalogue of these qualifications has also emerged. So far, it has been supervised by people with qualifications. The state has merely organized the directory, but it's good and it's good. Vacatio legis is also provided. This time it was even thought of a vacathio legis. The proposed amendments are orderly in nature and consequently ensure relative consistency of legislation on regulated issues. I wish you, the majority of Parliament, more often, to try to follow this path in the formulation of legislative standards, in the path to the evolution of legislation so that it can serve our society better. The Civic Platform Club will support the submitted project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u53	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Bartosz Józwiak, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u54	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Kukiz club15 on the Act amending the Act on the Protection of Monuments and Monuments and the Act amending the Act on the Protection of Monuments and the Protection of Monuments and the Act on Museums. The main objective of this project is to amend the Act of 10 July 2015 amending the Act on the Protection of Monuments and Monuments and the Act on Museums, as well as the Act of 23 July 2003 on the Protection of Monuments and the Protection of Monuments. The purpose of these amendments is to adapt the Law on the amendment of the Act on the Protection of Monuments to the amendments introduced during the proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal to which the Act was referred by President Komorowski. Therefore, this amendment is in principle necessary to ensure its consistency with the existing rules, as some other laws already contain appropriate amendments, including many important changes to the protection of the monuments of the regulation. And the substance of the proposed amendment is the introduction of the necessary technical and formal changes, which make all these legal acts coherent and orderly. And so on. the provision of Article is supplemented. 24a paragraph. 2 of the said Act which states which movable goods may be entered in the national register of lost cultural objects in the event of their loss. This is very important from the point of view of the preservation of property rights to a given object by the rightful owner, or the retention of the possibility of disposing of these items in a secondary manner. The requirements to be met by persons operating on monuments entered in the register of monuments and conducting archaeological studies have been changed or regulated. This is a very important element, because over the past few years, at least in the case of archaeology that is closer to me, we have reached a level of very high degeneration of the quality of the research conducted. In fact, sometimes it's hard to call them research. We are actually dealing with a certain fiction of scientific research, and that is a huge problem, because the antique substance is very valuable, unique. Maybe it's not even a truism of a proverb that says that the archaeologist's mistakes are covering the ground, so they're never verifiable again, so that in this respect, This is a very important solution and the improvement of these standards by those carrying out these studies is very, very important. In addition, the scope of these requirements is stated in this Act. The scope of these requirements is to be determined by the Minister in the form of a regulation. The rules of transport, storage of monuments, etc. were also regulated. In addition to this, the Act contains a number of provisions which align the provisions contained in the various laws, which eliminates the chaos created. All of these solutions are necessary and appropriate. That is why our club will support these draft laws. Taking advantage of the opportunity, because I have almost 2 minutes left, I would like to say a few general words, because it is such a very technical law that organizes a small aspect of caring for culture and national heritage. But we will not be able to do much if we do not change the basics of Polish preservation. And here I would like to remind myself, Minister, with this conversation that has already been held in the Committee on Culture, about moving supervision of monument conservationists from the voivodships back to the Ministry of Culture, which will finally give the Minister of Culture a tool to be able to act in any way. And here I ask you to take care of this, please try to start this legislative procedure, talk to the environment. I am very open to a discussion on this issue, because this is an aspect that needs to be resolved at the level of the Ministry, the General Directorate, who is also involved in issuing certain regulations related to this subject, and a number of other solutions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u55	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u56	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I will not dwell on this project because it is very useful and very much needed in Polish culture. I think the monuments are a Polish state rhyme. This is an extremely sensitive space, our symbolic space, even though it is so material and so real. The monuments have their biography, their age, also their history, have their strength and are also depreciated or very often used for various symbolic violence. This law at the level of the technology of the existence of monuments in Poland is absolutely important, important, basic. It is sad to see from a certain time perspective that these regulations have not yet been introduced. I would like to tell you that our monuments, Polish monuments, are the Polish state's right. We must be aware that in the spaces of these monuments there are various important debates, these monuments become in a sense social energy. They can develop this social energy. They, neglected, simply become a dead space that is dangerous and dangerous. I think that this law changes everything and emphasizes something else very important, namely the ethical dimension of what is in the widely understood space of the monument. I also think that it is worth remembering that these monuments are as much respected as possible by our audience, by our society, and also that they are well described, which is extremely difficult, but of course it is happening. This, of course, is happening, this is actually our daily practice. Art historians, monument conservationists are absolutely aware, these are excellent specialists, some of the best in the world. Modern, of course, accepts all of this. We thank you very much for these solutions and, of course, we will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u57	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Mieczysław Baszka, the PSL Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u58	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the position of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club regarding the amendment of the Act of 10 July 2015 on the amendment of the Act on the Protection of Monuments and the Protection of Monuments and the Act on Museums. This bill is a case of amendment of a law which has not yet entered into force and is intended to adapt the Act on the amendment of the Act on the Protection of Monuments to the amendments introduced during the proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal to the Act on the Protection of Monuments. In July 2015, on the initiative of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, a revision of the Act on the protection of monuments was carried out to improve the effectiveness of the protection of the most valuable Polish monuments belonging to the national heritage. The legislation provided for a new form of protection called the Heritage Treasury List to be conducted by the Minister of Culture and National Heritage. However, the Act did not enter into force because it was examined by the Constitutional Tribunal, which stated in its judgment of 25 May 2016 its compatibility with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, which enabled the President to sign the Act on 16 August 2016. However, in the period between the adoption of the amendment and its signature by the President, the provisions have changed in such a way that it is necessary to amend it. Therefore, the draft amendment is mainly of a technical nature, necessary to ensure its consistency with the rules in force, including the preservation of many important regulatory monuments. According to the project, the Article was supplemented by the Act on the Protection of Monuments. 24a paragraph. 2 of that law, indicating which movable items in the event of their loss may be entered in the national register of lost cultural objects. The entry in this register is important for the preservation of ownership of lost movable property by the rightful owner, because it does not allow the acquisition of such movable property by another entity in good faith. Considering that the monuments included in the Heritage Treasure List have special value for cultural heritage, their rightful owners, including museums, libraries and archives, should benefit from these legal solutions. The Act also lists the requirements for education and professional experience which must be met by persons conducting conservation works on monuments entered in the register of monuments, and indicates that these requirements will also have to be met by persons carrying out such activities on monuments entered on the list of Heritage Treasures. The Club of the Polish People's Party welcomes this regulation. We hope that the State budget for 2017 will secure adequate resources for the creation and subsequent protection of the Heritage Treasury List, so that the Minister of Culture, as set out in the 2015 Act, provides up to 100% funding for all security and maintenance activities of the sites entered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u59	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, Circle of Members of Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u60	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the position of the Polish Free and Solidarni Circle on the government bill amending the Act on the Protection of Monuments and the Protection of Monuments and the Act on the Amendment of the Act on the Protection of Monuments and the Protection of Monuments and the Act on Museums. According to the applicant, the amendment of the Act amending the Act on the Protection of Monuments is necessary in order to ensure its consistency with the applicable rules, including the preservation of many regulations relevant to the protection of monuments. The essence of the proposed amendment is to make the necessary technical changes to it. The amendment is of great importance for the preservation of ownership of a large part of the lost cultural goods by legitimate owners, because it does not allow the acquisition of them in good faith by another entity. This is permitted by Article. 24a paragraph. 2th bill, which indicates which objects can be entered in the national register of lost cultural goods. In order to use the provisions of the Act, it is enough to include monuments on the Heritage Treasury List, and since they have special value for cultural heritage, their rightful owners, including museums, libraries and archives, should benefit from these legal solutions. At the same time, the Act on the Protection of Monuments amends the rules governing the requirements to be met by persons carrying out activities in connection with the monuments entered in the Register of Monuments, as well as by conducting archaeological surveys. It is about the amendments made to this law on the basis of the provisions of the Act of 5 August 2015 amending the Act which regulates the conditions for access to the exercise of certain professions. These provisions need to be supplemented by requirements which should be met by those conducting conservation work, restoration work and conservation studies carried out in connection with the monuments entered on the Heritage Treasury List. Given that the monuments included in the Heritage treasure list have special value for cultural heritage, we should protect them with special care. The Free and Solidarni Circle will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u61	Thank you, Member. Mr Sylwester Khrushch will also take advantage of Kukiz15's time. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u62	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This amendment, presented changes are of a resultant nature. The amended Act contains revised provisions of the Act on the Protection of Monuments to the extent necessary to ensure the consistency of the provisions of the Act supplemented by the last amendment of the provisions introduced by the Act amending the Act on the Protection of Monuments. As we stress here, the changes are the resultant, carried out by your President, by the tribunal, which is why the Kukiz Club will vote in favour of this comprehensive, coherent bill, and so we will proceed, and so we will vote. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u63	Thank you very much, sir. Two people signed up for the questions. Does anyone else want to ask a question? If not, I'm closing the list. Mr Sylwester Khrushcz, the Kukiz Club15, asks the first question. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u64	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Act on the Protection of Monuments amends the rules governing the requirements to be met by persons who carry out activities on monuments and by conducting archaeological studies. When the legislator introduces a law that will cover at least 80,000. metal searchers because the current regulations are very archaic and do not use them even 1% Those passionate people of history? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u65	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Mieczysław Baszka, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u66	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Voivodship Monument Preserver he's a very good person, he's a very important person in the voivodship. I have a question for the government party whether it is considering the possibility that the provincial monument conservator should be directly subject to the minister of a given department, because such practice was over 10 years ago and it was tested. For several years now, however, we have seen that the voivodship conservator is directly subject to the voivodship and is sometimes less dependent, sometimes more dependent on what is happening in a given voivodship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u67	Thank you very much. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, Minister Magdalena Gawin, will answer the questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u68	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! To answer the first question, as far as I understand it correctly, about archaeological research, when you allow such extensive archaeological research, I would like to say this: at the moment, researchers of fascinating and passionate people who want to carry out such research using a detector can do so, if they get permission from a provincial monument conservationist, and this is very important. We cannot give up this permit because otherwise archaeological positions would simply be destroyed, and so the State is keeping an eye on it. However, I am in favour of this provision because we cannot afford such immense independence and freedom. That's the first question. The second question concerned the reform of conservation services. I wanted to say that, at the moment, there is already a project in the legislative department on the reform of conservation services, and what seems to be most important to us is that, for the cancellation and appointment of voivodship conservationists of monuments... it is most important that this is done by the general conservator of monuments. We talked on the Parliament committee about why it is important and why it is important - among others. because the general conservator of monuments is outside the region, is not included in any local interest groups and, I would say, is a completely external body which guarantees full objectivity in individual personal decisions. We didn't give it up. It is only a matter of time now, so I only kindly ask all Members to just wait a moment. I'm sure this project will be in the Sejm soon enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u69	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - amending the Act on the commercial quality of agri-food products, - amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. The reports shall be in prints Nos 957 and 960 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. I propose that in discussions on these items on the agenda, the Sejm listen to five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law amending the Act on a complaint against a party's right to investigate a case in pre-trial proceedings conducted or supervised by a prosecutor and judicial proceedings without undue delay and certain other laws (prints No 851 and 964). I ask Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u70	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present a report to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law amending the law on the application for an infringement of the party's right to investigate a case in preparatory proceedings conducted or supervised by the prosecutor and judicial proceedings without undue delay and certain other laws, print No 851. The Sejm at its 27th meeting on 5 October 2016 pursuant to Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm referred the above draft law to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. The Commission, after considering this draft law at its meeting on 27 October 2016, requested the High Sejm to adopt the draft law contained in print No 964. The Commission, as set out in the Article. Article 43 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, shall, at the request of the applicant, Robert Kropiwnicki, submit a request from a minority to delete Article. 10 in the draft in print No 851. I'll remind you, Art. The 10 of the original draft was as follows: "For acts committed before the date of entry into force of this Act, the statute of limitations in the wording of this Act shall apply unless the limitation period has expired. High Izbo, seven amendments were introduced at the committee meeting on 27 October in the original draft. Most of them were complex. They included a few articles. As regards Amendment 1, this was the implementation of the recommendation of the Council of Ministers, which examined the draft at its meeting on 5 September 2016. It is a change concerning the powers of the State Treasury and the public finance sector. The draft original law provides that these entities will not be entitled to lodge a complaint. However, after analysis, it was considered that there were insufficient arguments for such exclusion. It is therefore proposed to delete in Article. Point 1 (3). However, it was considered that the granting of the sum of money should the action brought by the State Treasury or the State body be taken into account would not be justified, since the sum granted by the State Treasury would belong to the State Treasury, would be allocated to the State Treasury. It is also proposed to waive the proposed waiver of the obligation to justify the complaint. While the proposed amendments to the provisions relating to the complaint for the duration of proceedings introduce provisions to depart from the practice of fragmentation of proceedings by requiring the court hearing the application to take account of all its stages, the solution contained in the draft does not require the applicant to indicate in the complaint at which stage the proceedings took place would result in the obligation for the court competent to consider the complaint to provide a notice of pending proceedings to the Treasury, to the President of any court before which proceedings were pending, while providing him with a copy of the application. This would, on the one hand, increase the costs of proceedings and impose additional duties on judicial staff and, on the other hand, may extend the time taken to investigate the case. In addition, it is proposed to reduce, in relation to the proposed minimum amount, the sum of the monetary amount granted for each year of the proceedings up to PLN 500, while defining the conditions governing the possibility for the court to reach a higher amount. Indeed, it does not appear that it is justified, in particular, to leave the possibility of judging for the complainant an amount higher than PLN 500 for each year of proceedings in cases in which its faulty conduct would lead to an extension of the procedure, e.g. when the defendant was hiding in court proceedings where there was either a delay in the investigation of the case, or in a situation where the case affected by the chronicity is not of particular relevance from the complainant's point of view. Cases of particular relevance to the complainant according to the case law of the European Court of Human Rights are primarily labour law, social security and criminal matters. Clearly, these people's rights are often restricted in social security or labour law, and there should be an exceptional speed in these proceedings. In addition, in the article. 14 information was provided on the possibility of re-submitting a complaint in the event of its rejection by the court in view of the failure to complete the formal deficiencies within the time limit and that provision was divided into paragraphs. Consequently, the wording of the Article has been amended. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 referring to Article. 14. The charge on the complaint was also increased by PLN 100, which is intended to reduce the number of non-justifiable complaints which result in an extension of the proceedings. A fixed fee of PLN 200 is expected. Of course, it is also possible to exempt from legal costs in justified cases. As for Amendment 2, she is such a sequence of changes in Article. 1. The article is added. 1a and 1b. These amendments aim to introduce in the Act of 21 August 1997 on the limitation of the conduct of business by public officials and in the Law of 21 August 1997 on the system of common courts... The regulations are similar to those contained in this project. Those amendments should cover general court judges, administrative courts, the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Tribunal. These amendments aim to ensure consistency within the legal system, since there is no reason for military courts or judges of the Constitutional Tribunal to be subject to different rules. It is here, High Izbo, about the disclosure of property statements, except for address details, information about the location of the property, as well as information enabling the identification of the property of the judge. At the request of a Judge who has made a declaration, an entity entitled to receive a declaration may decide to include the information contained in the security declaration provided for classified information of the The grounds for applying this classification are laid down in the provisions of the Act of 5 August 2010 on the protection of classified information. Amendment 3 concerns further amendments to the Law of 27 July 2001. The Law on the System of General Courts consists in replacing the proposed Article. 87 § 6 Law on the System of General Courts of the wording of an authorised entity pursuant to § 2 or § by the wording of the entity entitled to receive the statement and by introducing an equivalent amendment to Article. 87 § 8 the Law on the System of General Courts, in order to eliminate any question of interpretation relating to the establishment of an entity authorised to decide on the inclusion of information contained in the asset statement under the classification "reserved' in respect of property claims made by judges of administrative courts or Supreme Courts, to which the provisions of the Law on the System of General Courts apply mutatis mutandis pursuant to Article. 8 Law of 25 July 2002 on the system of administrative courts and articles. 8 § 1 of the Law of 23 November 2002 on the Supreme Court. The amendments also consist of introducing in the proposed article. 87 § 6 The Law on the System of General Courts empowers the Minister of Justice to abolish the classification of the assets of judges by the competent entity. It also replaced the text of the proposed Article. 87 § 6a of the Law on the System of General Courts, in order to eliminate any question of interpretation relating to the identification of an entity liable to make public statements of property of administrative courts and Supreme Courts. Another amendment concerns the upper limit at which a disciplinary penalty is to be imposed: a reduction in the basic salary of a judge. In the original project, this limit was 15%. basic salary, after amendments this limit is 20% basic salary. Let me remind you, within six months. This is one of the types of disciplinary penalties. The purpose of Amendment 4 is to change the entity empowered to appoint and remove from the Office the organisational units competent in military matters of the National Public Prosecutor's Office. This competence shall, in general terms, be granted to the national prosecutor in place of the Deputy General Prosecutor for Military Affairs, who shall remain entitled to appoint and dismiss in the case of functions performed in organisational cells competent in military matters in other organisational units. Amendment 5 amends the recognition of complaints made in accordance with Article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2nd sentence of the Law referred to in Article. 8 in the current version. This concerns provisions amending the Code of Criminal Procedure of 10 June 2016. This amendment also included amendments to the Act on Competitions for Doctors and Dentists and the Act on Patients' Rights and the Ombudsperson for Patients. Unrecognized until the date of entry into force of this Act, complaints will remain unrecognized. Amendment 6 aims to extend the period of vacathio legis Article. 40a, Art. 351 and Art. 439 § 1 pt. 1a k.p.k. in the wording of the Act of 11 March 2016 amending the Code of Criminal Procedure Act and certain other laws. I would like to remind you that this is a matter of absolute appeal when the provisions concerning the allocation of referees to cases in the order of influence or as a result of the drawing of lots introduced at the request of the parties have been infringed. The entry into force of the amendments concerning the introduction of these new, more objective criteria for the allocation of cases and the restrictive consequences of infringements of those rules, including the adoption of an absolute cause of appeal in such cases by application of Article. 439 § 1 point 1a k.p.k.... This amendment introduces breakthrough changes to the practice of criminal courts, taking into account the possible legal effect of repealing the judgment, as well as the final one, at every stage of the procedure. These regulations must take effect at a time when the universal judiciary will be fully organisationally prepared for this. Complicated nature of the rules for determining the formation of the court referred to in the amended Article. 351 k.p.k., requires an indication in a regulation issued by the Minister of Justice pursuant to Article. 351 § 8 point 2 of paragraph 2 of the preamble to the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice of the European Union. a number of criteria on the basis of which judges may, for certain reasons, be disregarded in the judgment. This complexity of matter, combined with the most far-reaching procedural effect possible infringements of these principles, necessitates the development of IT instruments, helping the human factor in the process of determining the formation of the court. The creation of such an IT instrument on the basis of a specific draft implementing act requires a sufficiently long period of time from the point of view of the organisation of work and ensuring the technical conditions for its implementation. The effect of this work must in turn be consulted by the representatives of the courts. Finally, it would be useful to bring the new rules closer to those concerned, with a view to the need for uniform application of the new rules. In view of the technical difficulties identified, which are largely dependent on objective factors, it is desirable to postpone the deadline for the entry into force of these rules for a period of 6 months, which is requested in this amendment. I would like to remind you that the original deadline was not 1 January 2017, it is a shift to 1 January 2017. The last amendment, the seventh amendment, which was introduced by the Committee on Justice and Human Rights at its meeting on 27 October this year, concerns a change in the date of entry into force of the amendments to the Article. 5 of the Act of 10 June 2016 amending the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, the Act on Competitions of Doctor and Dentist, and the Act on Patients' Rights and the Ombudsperson of Patients. This provision is of an incidental nature and concerns proceedings before a court which were initiated before the entry into force of that law. It therefore has a limited scope of action in relation to cases which will be systematically completed. It is therefore justified that the normative adjustments to this Episcopal provision, which improve the functionality of its application, should enter into force as early as possible and cover the widest possible range of matters to be regulated. It will therefore be justified to enter into force on the day following the date of the vote on the law. I am also obliged to add that a change in the name of this law has been voted on. The original name was relatively long. In short, it concerns the Act on a complaint for the length of proceedings and this law is amended by nine laws, except that two laws have more extensive legal matters. This is the law which has a very long name, i.e. the law on an infringement of the party's right to investigate a case in preparatory proceedings conducted or supervised by the prosecutor and judicial proceedings without undue delay and some other laws. The second act is to amend the Law on the System of General Courts, where the matter concerning the statement of property of judges is included, the disclosure of those statements and the procedure for proceeding with regard to their publication. It also concerns changes in disciplinary proceedings and, above all, introduces a new type of disciplinary penalty - a reduction in remuneration of between 5 and 20% for a period of up to 6 months. There is also a change in the limitation periods for disciplinary offences. The Commission considered that this law should be referred to as amending the Law on the system of common courts and certain other laws. Thank you very much, that's all, the whole report.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u71	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Daniel Milewski, Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u72	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice following the review by the Committee on Justice and Human Rights of the amendments to the Government's draft law amending the law on the application for an infringement of the right of the party to investigate the case in the preparatory proceedings conducted or supervised by the prosecutor and judicial proceedings without undue delay and certain other laws. As I stressed in my first reading, this project concerns the deformity and efficiency of the complaint brought on the long-term prosecution or judicial proceedings and the possibility of adequate compensation from the State Treasury for the long-term nature of these proceedings. In addition, it provides for the disclosure of the statement of property of judges and the obligation to publish the statement of property of judges and prosecutors in the Public Information Bulletin. In addition, the contested draft provides for the introduction of provisions which will ensure that disciplinary proceedings against judges and prosecutors do not end before the expiry of the limitation period. These provisions are undoubtedly socially expected. On the one hand, they meet the problems that citizens face in their proceedings and on the other hand, they increase confidence in the public service providers of judges and prosecutors. I firmly believe that there is no need to convince anyone in this House that public service requires transparency. We are positive about the many amendments adopted by the committee. I am referring mainly to regulations which reduce the amount of monetary compensation granted for each year of proceedings to an amount of not less than PLN 500. This may be a higher amount if the case is of particular relevance to the complainant, who has not contributed in a manner bound by the extension of the proceedings. Of course, the sum of money is not granted if the complaint brought by the State Treasury or by public sector entities is taken into account. It is worth noting that the solution currently proposed in the event of rejection also gives the complainant the opportunity to bring a new complaint in the same case and at the same time makes it impossible to lodge a complaint without justification. In turn, the provisions conferring on the Minister of Justice the power to abolish the classification granted to the assets of judges adapt our regulations to the world's standards in a twin way which treats the status of judges and prosecutors in this respect. Of course, we do not have any comments on the drafting and language amendments tabled by the Legislative Bureau, but we want to propose three more amendments as a club, namely to delete the article. Article 11 and Article 11 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [2] shall apply mutatis mutandis. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 and Article 2 Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The text of Article 2 is replaced by the following: 10 and Article 10 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 1). 16 which shall enter into force on the day following the date of publication. I'm making these amendments to you, Marshal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u73	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u74	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club on the procedated draft law amending the law on the application for an infringement of the right of the party to investigate the case in preparatory proceedings conducted or supervised by the prosecutor and judicial proceedings without undue delay and certain other laws. The title of the bill has changed, but the content of the project has not changed in general as to the idea. The draft amends 11 laws completely unrelated to each other, which violates the principles of good legislation. This is unacceptable because, without respecting the requirements of lawmaking, we are creating a bad law. Regulation on the Act on Complaints, namely: the length of proceedings, raises no greater doubts and results from the need to implement the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights of July 2015. Legislative amendments aim to ensure that the case-law of national courts which recognise complaints against chronicity is consistent with the established standards resulting from the provisions of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. During the committee's work, a number of substantial amendments were made to the draft, extending substantially the provisions on the disclosure of the judges' property statements. It should be noted that some amendments go beyond the scope of the submission, in particular amendments concerning amendments to the Law on the limitation of the conduct of business by public office holders. Despite these reservations raised in committee, the parliamentary majority voted on the amendments. As I said at first reading, the introduction of the disclosure of judges' property claims undermines the role of the state as an independent justice system. It's a tool to put pressure on the independence of a judge to be protected. If the aim is, as we read in the explanatory memorandum, the fight against corruption, it is a very bad idea and thus the goal will not be achieved. In most European countries with established democracy, judges do not make statements of property at all, and corruption is close to zero. I very much regret that the committee has failed to take into account the critical opinion of the Supreme Court on this matter. If the purpose of disclosure of the judges' property statements is to shorten the time taken to recognise cases and prevent the length of proceedings which citizens are complaining about, first of all, free judicial posts should be filled. Why is 200 judges unattended this year? Why is no increase in the employment of judges in the 2017 draft budget? This is not enough, the committee is asking for a reduction of nearly 20 million in universal court expenditure for the next year, which should be considered unprecedented and completely incomprehensible. The statements of property of judges have no effect on shortening the time taken to deal with cases or on increasing public confidence in the justice system. The current system of statements of property of judges is sufficient to assess their reliability and reliability. In addition, a very dangerous regulation is introduced in the Code of Criminal Procedure Act. They allow the prosecutor to stop the trial by withdrawing the file to be completed. He won't have to ask the court for permission. Not much, he can do it many times. If the prosecutor withdraws the file in the appeal proceedings, the court will be forced to revoke the judgment already delivered. These rules violate all the rules of the criminal trial and are contrary to the Constitution. In view of the above, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform requests that the draft law be rejected at second reading, and if the draft is not rejected, I am making further amendments to it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u75	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Jerzy Jachnik, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u76	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The draft and the amendments tabled to this proposal simply point out, once again, that the legislative system of the Sejm is bad. I am not quite able to understand why six or seven amendments were tabled to a project that was prepared by a government party at the beginning of the committee's process. They ruined it, not repaired it. I ignore the fact that in the project itself we have basically three topics: the length of proceedings, the transparency of statements and the right of the prosecutor to withdraw, even after the judgment has been passed, the indictment, which is equivalent to the annulment of the judgment. Well, maybe one at a time. Minister, when it comes to fragmentation of proceedings, we consider this change to be positive in the long term, but it seems that the Ministry has not understood the intention of a ruling by the European Court of Justice. [[Human rights.]] Let me quote them because it is important. The first reason is the failure of the Polish courts to comply with the Court's case-law as regards the assessment of the reasonable length of proceedings, in particular its judgments declaring that the period to be taken into account covers the entire national proceedings. In this respect, this project can also be assessed positively. Moreover, the Supreme Court made a lot of mess in this case, which changed the judicial line and only after the European Court had signaled in 2013, it adopted a resolution which it made clear. The second issue - which you are not talking about, and on the contrary, this project has been corrupted in this respect - relating to practice and partly resulting from the practice of a limited, fragmented assessment of the length of proceedings, is the failure of the Polish courts to apply sufficient standards of redress which may be brought to the party by a national court for breach of the right to hear the case within a reasonable period of time. The Rutkowski and others were sentenced in these two cases. At this point, you are also reducing the amount of compensation and clearly reducing the compensation. In this respect, therefore, Kukiz15 will not support this project. As far as disclosure is concerned, we have nothing against transparency, we are in favour of public disclosure, but certainly, Minister, this will not solve corruption, nor will the present complaint speed up proceedings. The worst situation is with the third issue, i.e. the possibility of the prosecutor interfering in the criminal trial, because it comes into judicial independence. That's one thing. Secondly, you were completely out of line with the Supreme Court's opinion, which pointed out that the Code of Criminal Procedure has changed several times, so we do not refer to the date at all. We also know that the criminal trials in Poland last 15 and 16 years. Thus, the Penal Code was subject to and in 2007 and in 2003 as well, and perhaps in 2009 to the amendment which it was referring to. There is no specification of the date and that it is an occasional provision that it will cover a certain period of time, it may still cover 20 years. Therefore, it is a mistake to give power to the prosecutor that such an indictment can be withdrawn, is incompatible with the constitution on the independence of the judiciary in Poland. Minister, I wonder what this bill is supposed to do at all, because for a good cause I don't see its positives, except for one thing - for some they will be positive, for others negative - the disclosure of the statements of the judges because of the public's public life. Only in this respect, nothing else, because corruption is combated by other methods such as: the impact of social control on the justice system, the correct operation and obtaining evidence by law enforcement authorities, the preparation of files. I advise you to compare the court records from 10 and 15 years back when they were clear, clear when they came from the prosecution and the court was easy to judge in this case, with today's court files, which come down to the fact that if the prosecution doesn't know what to do, because unfortunately, it has weak specialists or it doesn't want to work, it copies tons of files and sends them to court and let the court get tired. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In this way, we will not speed up any action. We will therefore be against this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u77	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Barbara Dolniak, the marshal, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u78	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, I should say, Minister, do you hear what is said in this Chamber about this bill? Do you hear what was said in the Justice Committee and for the time being in the Plenary Chamber? We are telling you that this law is wrong, wrongly written, contrary to the principles of legislative technique. The Ministry of Justice should be the Ministry, which sets an example not only as to how to apply the law, but also as to how to create it, because of what it is the ministry. What do you say? Or that it's a horizontal project in the release of the Deputy Minister or, what, we're supposed to put together seven projects? Yes, because that is the law in force, which this House cannot change, because this is the result of a regulation by the President of the Council of Ministers. We must apply mandatory law unless it is changed, and then the rules will change. You cannot rely on this and justify your own behaviour by saying that the Platform did the same. You guys say you've come to fix things all the time. If you're here to correct, then why are you referring to the fact that others could, so can you? Do you believe that you will speed up your proceedings as a result of the disclosure of your claims of property? How is this supposed to speed up proceedings when judges have made statements for many, many years that are controlled by tax offices? We are under strict control and - you can say - an excellent magnification of the tax offices checking the assets of the judges. If you introduce a provision in which you give the opportunity to bring an action without the slightest justification, providing that the action may contain a justification, you give one more advantage to one person than to the plaintiffs who have to justify the action in fact. In this case, it is not even necessary to indicate the stage of the proceedings to which the complaint relates. So you're turning the examination of this complaint into a court and a party - an indication of which part of the party to the proceedings is covered by the chronicity. That's not how it's supposed to work. The judgments of the European Court are not such a direction. They say that a certain dose, but small, should exist in the explanatory memorandum, for example, to indicate what part of the complaint is concerned. It does not have to be unknown how formalized the pleading and no one requires it, but we must maintain a certain balance between the parties to the law, because we will lose justice and equality to the law. Another rule, Art. 8. As you can imagine, the court before which the proceedings are pending is the stage in the judicial proceedings which this authority decides, without assessing whether the application is justified or not, must file. You are depriving the judge of any possibility in this regard. There's a prosecutor's motion, pending final termination of the case, and the court either has to revoke the sentence or, if he's not, hand the case over. And here it is, ladies and gentlemen, to make evidence or seek proof. The word "searching" at the stage of legal proceedings is a certain kind of puriazum, because what did the prosecution do during the proceedings? After all, this application for evidence can be filed before a court. There is no problem with the motion to file and justify it, but the court in the current procedure is looking for evidence because you have changed this state from an adversarial way to an old method of procedure. So the court is looking for evidence again, and it's in charge. The fact that you're changing the name of this project still doesn't change its character. This is, ladies and gentlemen, a legal issue. We talked about pulling out, but we couldn't. Therefore, the Modern proposes to reject this project at second reading together with the report, [[♪ The bell ♪]] i.e. the project from prints No. 851 and No. 964. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u79	Thank you very much, Marshal. Thank you. I invite Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u80	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party to present our position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Act on complaint against the right of the party to investigate a case in preparatory proceedings conducted or supervised by the prosecutor and judicial proceedings without undue delay and some other laws. I agree with those opinions that have been expressed just now - more or less they are going towards such a conclusion that a very good diagnosis was given to the designers, because here it is difficult to have reservations, we will probably agree with it mostly, while we differ in the way in which the proposed law deals with this matter. And that hasn't changed, and I've had this feeling since I first read, despite all the suggestions, of the discussion that took place on the occasion of working on this project in committee. Indeed, this proposal results from the need to implement the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights of 7 July 2015. Indeed, the European Court of Human Rights pointed out in its ruling the need for national authorities to take legislative action to ensure that the case law of the national courts determining the length of proceedings complies with established standards resulting from the provisions of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. But also I will not be original here, it came from the mouth of the previous speakers - this is the way implementation could be better, separated above all, not combined in one act. It is also necessary to implement in the Law on the system of common courts the recommendations drawn up by the IV round of evaluation of the Group of States against the Council of Europe Corruption indicating the need for measures to ensure that disciplinary proceedings concerning the improper conduct of judges and prosecutors end before the expiry of the limitation period. We can agree here, too. The proposed amendment of the Law on Complaints aims to prevent courts from limiting the recognition of a complaint only to the stage at which the proceedings are to be conducted, which will be achieved by modifying the criteria for assessing the concept of diagnosis within a reasonable period of time. The proposed amendment takes into account the Court's guidelines to ensure adequate compensation for the infringement of the party's right to investigate the case without undue delay. This will be achieved through the obligation of the courts to take into account in determining the appropriate monetary sum in relation to the determination of the duration of the proceedings, from the time of initiation until the date of the hearing. On the other hand, the introduction of the disclosure of judges' property statements as a factor which is intended to counteract any irregularities, pathologies and corruption is a fundamental and misunderstanding on the part of the Polish People's Party's Parliamentary Club. I don't think this is the right way. After all - I will no longer be original - according to the applicable provisions of the judge's statement of property are examined by the college of the competent tax office. It shall, within the framework of its statutory competence, examine the data contained in the declarations. In a situation where there are irregularities, this is to be noted. This does not require such a far-reaching change, because she too, let us be aware, will attract another category of people within the judicial system, then other areas, so that we will further expand the catalogue of people whose claims of property will be made public. That's not gonna lead to anything. In this shape of the bill, [[♪ The bell ♪]] in which we received it after leaving the committee, the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party does not see the possibility of its support. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u81	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Ireneusz Gaina, the Free and Solidarnia Members' Circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u82	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law amending the law on the application for an infringement of the right of the party to investigate the case in preparatory proceedings conducted or supervised by the prosecutor and in judicial proceedings without undue delay and certain other laws. The Commission has submitted a draft law to the High House with one request from a minority. The Free and Solidarni Circle maintains its positive position on the whole of this project, including on issues that cause the greatest discussion. First of all, we are talking about the obligation to disclose the statements of property of judges and to publish them in the Public Information Bulletin, and secondly about changes in disciplinary proceedings against judges and prosecutors, such as the extension of the limitation period of proceedings from 3 to 5 years, and after the initiation of proceedings to 8 years, and the introduction of a new disciplinary penalty, i.e. reduction of the basic salary of a judge of the general court from 5% to 15% for the period from 6 months to 2 years. The votes of the judge's community that this poses a threat to the independence of judges or to their personal safety are not justified. Persons with the status of a public official should make such statements openly. Only secret, secret service officers may be excluded, e.g. CBA officers, CBI. The judges are acting openly, so that limitation should not apply to them. In addition, a security has been introduced whereby, at the request of a Judge who has made a declaration, an entity entitled to receive a declaration may decide to include the information contained in the security statement provided for classified information, as laid down in the provisions of the Act of 5 August 2010 on the protection of classified information, if disclosure of that information would endanger the judge or the persons closest to him. The amendment of the Law on the System of General Courts aims to eliminate doubts as to the nature of the liability for the deliberate misrepresentation in the property declaration made by the General Court's judges. To date, the rules do not specify whether such conduct constitutes a criminal offence or only a disciplinary measure. This results in systemic inconsistencies, taking into account the provision of the Article. 14 the Law of 21 August 1997 on the limitation of the conduct of business by persons performing public functions, as well as Article. Article 35 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 9th Act of 9 May 1996 on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator. Those provisions provide that a statement of property shall be made under criminal liability and, in the case of judges, standards relating to common court judges should not be lower than those of other persons performing public functions. In our view, the proposed changes will increase the sense of accountability of judges for the conduct of proceedings, among others. in the context of minimizing its chronicity, which should have a positive impact on the public's assessment of the functioning of the justice system in Poland. Of course, this does not change the fact that we are still looking forward to major systemic changes that will help reform justice to the benefit of citizens. There may be only one concern, but a very important change in criminal proceedings. According to Art. 8 of the Act: If, before the date of entry into force of this Act, an indictment order, an application for a conviction, a request for conditional termination of proceedings or a request for termination of proceedings and a decision of a safeguard measure have been brought to the court, there is a need to seek evidence or other steps are required to clarify the circumstances of the case, the court shall, at the request of the prosecutor, refer the matter to him in order to complete the investigation or investigation. On the other hand, if the application referred to in paragraph is made. 1, has been lodged in appeal proceedings, the court of appeal, forwarding the case to the prosecutor in order to complete the investigation or investigation, repeals the judgment under appeal. Such an instrument granted to the prosecutor's office, which interferes with the powers of the court, is very dangerous, as with irresponsible application it will lead to the chronicity of court proceedings and general chaos in the justice system. The prosecution has a duty to prepare the full material before filing an indictment. The new essential circumstances can always form the basis for initiating a new proceeding and therefore the solution adopted by the applicant is surprising. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Members of the Free and Solidarnia Circle will vote in favour of the bill submitted by notifying the need to amend the above mentioned powers of the Public Prosecutor's Office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u83	Thank you very much, sir. Three people, four people signed up for the questions. Would any of you like to sign up? If not, I'm closing the list. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. The first question is asked by Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u84	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! William Ewart Gladstone, the British Prime Minister, has stated that justice late is no justice. This draft law is undoubtedly intended to facilitate the way for an average citizen, the opportunity to assert his rights and the right in court. In view of the citizens' interest in dealing with the matter quickly, I would like to ask whether it has been considered or whether it is intended to consider introducing an obligation to inform the party of the current burden of the court, of the expected indicative time given in the years until the end of the process. According to my knowledge, such an obligation in certain types of cases applies in some countries, e.g. in the Netherlands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u85	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u86	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! We are talking about the chronicity of behaviour, which is a negative phenomenon, misjudged by society, and rightly so. At the same time, we do nothing to limit this phenomenon. 'Cause how do you rate 200 unattended judges this year? How to assess the lack of an increase in the employment of judges for 2017? Why doesn't the Ministry of Justice want to limit the length of proceedings? At least that's what the decisions say. And one more question. What is the real purpose of introducing the disclosure of the judges' property statements? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u87	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Jerzy Jachnik, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u88	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a simple question about Mrs Czernow's question. Is there too many judges in Poland or not enough judges in Poland? How does this apply to other countries? For in my opinion there are enough of them, and they have little service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u89	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u90	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Every defendant has the right to be judged by an independent court, an independent court. One of the forms of this independence is that whoever is tried knows it and can check it out. So far, this has been done under covertly. Court, the judge could have turned himself off. However, neither the premises nor any other circumstances were known by the person in court. Right now, that's gonna change. Also requests which will be addressed to the court for a change e.g. composition, they can be justified. [[♪ The bell ♪]] My question: Are also in the case of other circumstances, e.g. when it comes to family ties, will it be possible to apply for exclusion for this reason in the near future? Thank you very much. Marshal, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u91	Thank you very much, sir. The last question you ask is Marshal Barbara Dolniak, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u92	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister. The introduction of open statements of property in the case of judges, so you say, is intended to prevent corruption. Therefore, I have a question. The tax authorities have been making statements of property by judges for many years. Please tell us, according to your research, the data, in how many cases these statements were incorrect, whether corruption was found, whether irregularities were found and how public statements are supposed to change this fact, given that they are in fact public because they are read by tax offices. As a result, tax officials are not only checking current statements, but are able to compare them with statements from the past, so as the judge's assets have increased over a period of time, [[♪ The bell ♪]] when the statements were made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u93	Thank you very much, Marshal. The questions will be answered by the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Justice, Minister Marcin Warchoł. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u94	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As regards the first question, Mr Jarosław Gonciusz asked questions about information for the parties on the timing of the case. Yes, a comprehensive reform of the Court's working time is being prepared at the moment. I will have the pleasure of visiting Germany next week, where this type of time register of judges has been in operation for many years, similarly to Austria. So we're looking at patterns from other countries, what it looks like, how it works. Indeed, full agreement should be given to the parties to be informed of the time planned to investigate cases, and should be entitled to information about the planned activities in the course of proceedings already at the stage of the organisational meeting before the commencement of the judicial duct. So that the work is going on right now, and we can show it soon. We are looking at patterns, as I said, from other legal systems, in Germany or Austria, where such solutions have been functioning for many years. Regarding Mrs Czernow's second question, the question of the cast of judges: at the moment we are in the process of a major reform of the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office. The way of recruiting a judge is being changed. We're betting on young staff leaving this school. So that the law applies separately to the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office. This question, in principle, can be asked calmly also when this law is being discussed. I'm just going to answer right now that this is precisely related to the reform of the jury's recruitment. With regard to Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski's question, the exclusion for family reasons, two grounds for the exclusion of a judge, called iudex sspectus, iudex inhabilis, i.e. exclusion of a judge from the law and exclusion of a judge because of his bias, because of concern for his impartiality, are already present. The fact that it works, as you suggested, in a faulty, incomplete way, we promise to take account of further plans for judicial reform. So that the impartiality of the judge, his independence is also one of the guarantees that should absolutely be, should take place. The party has the right to an independent, independent and impartial court, which is precisely the guarantee of excluding the judge. If there is a problem with the functioning of this in practice, I repeat: we are open and ready for all kinds of ideas, ideas to change these solutions regarding the exclusion of a judge due to family ties. Mrs Dolniak, Marshal Barbara Dolniak, pointed out the issue of the control of property claims. In this respect, I would like to point out two reports. The first is the report of the GRECO evaluation group, the Council of Europe Group of States against corruption, which had many reservations about those, as you rightly pointed out, marshals, currently addressed to the tax offices of the judges' property statements. Indeed, the Council of Europe experts stressed that these statements are unfortunately out of control in practice. No one controls them, no one reads them, and no one in 2005 said that many mistakes were made in the property statements of judges and prosecutors. Suddenly, judges showed strange amnesia, forgot to enter their assets into these statements. So the 2005 report is the most powerful proof of this. Mr Jerzy Jachnik, I do not remember, it was more a statement than a question, I apologise, Mr... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] The number of judges, yes. As far as the number of judges is concerned, Poland is among the countries where the most judges are in the Council of Europe. We have 26 judges out of 100,000. residents. Indeed, this is a large group of judges compared to other countries, e.g. There are 3.5 judges out of 100,000 in the UK. In France, there are 6, in Denmark - 7, so that actually in relation to other countries... In Italy there are 10 judges, as in Spain there are 10 and 11 judges. We have a large group, a very large group of judges, i.e. 10,000. judges who recognize the number of cases, de facto substantive cases, at the level of about 1600 thousand, 1700 thousand, because the other cases in this whole catalogue of cases that affect the courts, or 15 million cases, are cases relating to electronic proceedings, those are prerogative cases, those are registered cases, those are cases which do not require a hearing and conduct of the judicial duct. So that these statistics actually show that it is necessary to enter a record of the working time of judges, it is necessary to check why of the 17 statistics we have available, until in the case of 15 the effectiveness of the work of Polish judges has deteriorated in recent years, even though 100% since 2006 The number of assistants has increased, and paradoxically, those courts with the largest number of assistants and which are best placed in terms of finance are the slowest courts. This is the report of the Institute of Justice of 2013. So that these pathologies we have already identified and, as I said, we are working on improvement, we are working on reform. Thank you very much. [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u95	Thank you very much. Is the rapporteur... Ah, your marshal in correction mode. There you go, two minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u96	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You didn't answer my question. I asked how many disciplinary proceedings were initiated in connection with this, how many criminal proceedings were initiated in the event of corruption being found. That's what I'm talking about. I asked. And by the way... It's as if you didn't quite understand what I said, because you responded to the fact that it was said that the authorities had shown some indifference in checking. But forgive me, if the judge has made a statement and the office has shown indifference in the examination, then the judge is to be punished and therefore make public statements? I think this needs to be improved, if you state that, the functioning of tax offices in this area. It's a statement that judges forgot to write something, it's also kind of throwing a little bit into the world of information, but you didn't support the number of cases in which it happened, what was the dimension of it. whether the investigation was initiated at all. After all, Minister, you know very well that if the judge makes an incorrect statement of property, he is in danger of being dealt with with with a very serious sanction. Believe me. Which judge would risk such a serious complaint as a loss of opportunity to pursue his profession? I think we've warped the ideas a little bit. I ignore the issue of starting, ladies and gentlemen, from introducing the disclosure of the statements of the assets of the judges as a form of redress when we all say that the judges are not enough in relation to the number of cases and the cognition of the court. Either reduce the number of cases, or increase the number of judges. And already saying that there are courts in which there are many assistants, and free work... You forgot to add that there are powerful courts in Katowice, for example. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Even though there's a lot of assistants out there, they're still missing them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz, rapporteur of the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u98	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to address some of the comments on the club speeches. On the one hand, there are allegations that there is finally a regular complaint against the length of proceedings in a manner consistent with the recommendations of the European Court of Human Rights. You often refer to the case law of the European Court of Human Rights, and what is the government initiative that goes against it - because the Rutkowski case against Poland was handed down in July 2013 and the previous ruling, having a parliamentary majority, were able to amend these provisions, and have not done anything since the judgment was delivered, they have not taken any legislative initiative - these allegations are mainly such that our proceedings concerning a complaint concerning the length of proceedings contain so-called. fragmentation as regards the stages of this procedure. Because sometimes, as far as criminal cases are concerned, this duration is at the stage of the preparatory procedure, it is also due to the long expectation of various types of expert opinions, expert opinions, opinions of medical institutes. This is also the case at the stage of judicial proceedings, where such evidence is allowed. Many such examples could also be given for practitioners, e.g. that the Military District Court in Warsaw did not wait so long to justify the sentence for a year. There were no legal consequences for the judge who wrote the reasons for the judgment for a year. As regards the principle of transparency of judges' property statements, let me remind you that the judicial authority is also a public authority, and it is also about transparency and transparency of its operation. If there have already been declarations of property and for many years this applies to representatives of the legislative authority and all representative bodies in the local authorities, it applies to prosecutors, why should it not apply to judges? After all, the vast majority of judges, and there are more than 10,000 of them when it comes to common court judges, are people who are very honest and involved in the work of a judge, in the service of a judge. They certainly don't have any concerns about that. They've made such statements so far and they've been checked by the IRS. If they are public to all citizens, all the more so will their authority be strengthened, and that is building trust in the judiciary. These provisions of the Act fulfil such a role, unfortunately the representatives of opposition clubs do not see it. And another case, which is controversial, is the power of the prosecutor to file a motion for revocation. I would like to remind you that this is an accident, which concerns those cases which were brought before the entry into force of these provisions, which concern the referral of indictments, applications for a conviction, where there have often been arrangements between the accused, the defender and the public prosecutor, and the court has agreed to do so several times without the victim. There were also requests for conditional remission at the stage of judicial proceedings, although these conditions did not always exist, especially on the subject-matter side of the defendant. It seems appropriate to receive such instruments and to check many of these closed proceedings, because it is not possible in most cases to apply exceptional remedies, either by reopening proceedings or by erasing in criminal proceedings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u99	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Communication Commission to Poles abroad on the draft Parliamentary Law establishing the Eastern Cross (prints No. 889 and No.914). I ask Mr Michał Dworczyk to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u100	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the report of the Communication Commission with Poles abroad from the examination of the draft law on the establishment of the Eastern Cross, print No 889. Ladies and gentlemen, this law provides for the establishment of a new state award for foreigners, who in the years 1937 and 1959 very often risked their own lives and their loved ones' lives to save our compatriots at the borders of I and II of the Republic of Poland. These border dates are very important. The first of them, 1937, is the beginning of large repressions in the Soviet Union, it is the so-called. operation of the Polish NKVD, within which more than 111 thousand. Poles were shot and tens of thousands were subjected to repression. This was also the result of the uprisings, camps, and after 17 September, after the attack of the Soviet Union on the Second Republic, similar repressions, similar sufferings were subjected to our compatriots living in the eastern voivodeship of the Second Republic. Later came the year 1943 and genocide, which was carried out by Ukrainian nationalists in Poles living in Volyn and south-eastern voivodships. There were also dramatic events when collaborating Lithuanian and Belarusian troops participated in the murder of Poles. Our countrymen were killed because they were Poles. However, in these confusions of evil, in these tragic times it was possible to find people who, risking their lives, helped their Polish neighbors. The Polish state has never thanked these people so far. So the establishment of this distinction is a kind of repayment of moral debt to all those who have taken such risks, who have shown humanity in these dramatic times. The establishment of this distinction is also a call for the heritage of the limits and all that is connected with it, a call for multiculturalism, tolerance and fraternal life of nations, which later in the 20th century had such a dramatic finale. Three substantive amendments and several editorial and legislative amendments were tabled at the committee meeting on 4 October. These content concerns, among others, the possibility for the President to deprive the distinction of persons who behave in an abusive manner towards the Republic of Poland or Poles. The proposed change in the image of the cross was modified by adding Chrobre's crown and proposed to change the date of entry into force of the law to 1 January 2017. The Communication Commission with Poles abroad after first reading and considering this project, together with the amendments, invites the High Sejm to adopt the draft. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u101	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Marcin Porzucek will be the first to speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u102	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the parliamentary draft law on the establishment of the Eastern Cross. First of all, it should be stressed that the historical policy pursued by Law and Justice and President Andrzej Duda is a completely new quality, among others. on restoring memory and showing the truth about Polish heroes and difficult fates of our homeland. This Act is part of actions aimed at preserving the memory and rebuilding the community. The purpose of the establishment of the Eastern Cross is to commemorate the heroism and self-sacrifice of those who helped our fellow countrymen in the East who were persecuted for being Poles. The Polish people in the Eastern Kres in the years 1937 and 1959 experienced terror and various repressions and persecutions. However, the Hecatomb of our compatriots was not indifferent to the part of the people of other origins and other nationalities who lived in the end. In the face of genocide and various acts of oppression experienced by the Polish people there were people who, risking their lives and the fate of their families, were helping Poles. It is for them that the Eastern Cross is meant to be. Poles on the border experienced the evil of Russian totalitarianism, but they were also victims of acts of hatred by their neighbors. The echoes of genocide in Volhynia and other tragic events of those years continue to this day. At this point, it is worth mentioning the resolution which only the Sejm adopted a few months ago and in which he called the Volyn slaughter by name, called it genocide. I regret that, unfortunately, it was not possible to do so by acclamation. The Polish state remembers the heroes who, in an act of heroic courage, carried help to the persecuted. As there is currently no state award that would appreciate people saving Poles in the East, the establishment of the Eastern Cross is needed. This distinction will also contribute to the continuation of reconciliation between the Polish people and our neighbours in the East. The Act is a historical gesture, has no negative economic impact, and the cost of the project will be negligible. This project is part of the historical narrative built on the truth. It has a positive social impact. This Act fits directly into real and very concrete historical policy activities carried out by the political community of Law and Justice, which is why our club will support the draft law on the establishment of the Eastern Cross. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u103	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform will be delivered by Wojciech Ziamniak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u104	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I have the honour to present the position of the club in connection with the initiative of the Communication Commission with Poles abroad, which assumes the creation of a new national award for the Eastern Cross. The distinction is to be honored by foreigners saving Poles on the Eastern End. The bill establishes a new state award awarded by the President of the Republic of Poland to the Eastern Cross, which is intended for foreigners who in the years 1937 and 1959 rescued Poles in the East. The Civic Platform Club welcomes the initiative to honor those who risked their lives and health, the lives of their families and loved ones to help our fellow countrymen in those cruel times. Ukrainians who, during the genocide, rescued our fellow citizens, Belarusians, Lithuanians, Russians, Kazakhs - we should be able to honor these people with a special award. The Polish State should have an instrument which on the one hand will honor the people who saved Poles at that time, on the other hand it will be a very clear statement that the Polish State can take care of each Pole and appreciate those who helped Poles, regardless of the risks involved. It is also right to state in the justification of the project that the establishment of the Eastern Cross will have an impact on reconciliation between the Polish people and their neighbours in the East, showing that, although there have been crimes of genocide and a number of other tragic events, they have always been the work of certain people, not whole nations, in which there have always been individuals or groups of people who have risked their lives, saved Poles. Currently, there is no award that honors people saving Poles in the East. However, it is important to lean on the criteria according to which people will be qualified to decorate so that no one is left behind and to pay respect to all those who have sacrificed a great deal to save our fellow countrymen. And finally, one such observation. Well, in the explanatory memorandum, Mr President, there is a pattern of the cross. And we are talking about the years 1937 and 1959, and on the cross are the years 1937 and 1956. [[We've changed.]] We have, but it's still in the official documents, so I've allowed myself to mention that it's not in the documents. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u105	Thank you very much. On behalf of the club, Mr Zbigniew Gryglas will speak. [[Mr. Marshal left me out.]] Oh, I'm sorry. On behalf of the Kukiz Club15 Mr Tomasz Jaskoła. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u106	Yet, praise God, we are the third strength and we are developing. We'll probably be the first one someday. [[Wishful thinking.]] Mr. Marshal, I am a bit difficult to perform because I have great respect for President Dworczyk, but I must say that this committee project is a very beautiful project and very well-founded. As far as instruments are concerned, contrary to appearances we have such an instrument, it is the Order of Merit of the Republic of Poland, but of course such a distinction is as correct and good that such a project has been notified. However, we have comments because we cannot allow the appearance of the Polish State to be awarded - I will emphasize the word "destiny," because in the proposal this word did not fall and was confused with the badge, and this is a huge difference - there were many problems. One of these problems was mentioned by the Member. I'll try to prove that there should be a so-called one here. Chrobry's crown, although there are certain analyses, of course, that this should not be the case. So that's a yes. As regards the dates, Mr Potato has already explained this. Indeed, there is a problem, it is corrected - 1937/1959, it is 1956. I'd say so. Forgive me for this remark, but this is such a serious matter, hundreds of thousands of Poles have been murdered, ladies and gentlemen, and I cannot agree... I think the schedule, as he designed it, was crying. Ladies and gentlemen, how does it look? There's the crown. The crown in this cross looks like it's either from a computer game or from Wikipedia, or it's a French or a Burbon crown, possibly a Prussian crown. Let's respect each other, ladies and gentlemen. We have one regalia, destroyed in the 19th century by the Prussians - it is the crown of Chrobrego, it is a legal crown. And no phalerist in the country, or award specialist, would say that we should use another crown. Now, the question is, why do you use one of these here? Twice in Poland's history, we used the triangular coat of arms of the Polish state, such as you have presented in the proposal. It is a 17th-century hadziak union from 1658 that did not enter into force, the Republic of the Trojga of Nations. And it's obviously the 19th century, which is the January Uprising. Now the question is which one of these projects we're referring to. In both cases the crown of Chrobrego, the legal instrumentarium, the insignia of the Polish state, is most appropriate, both in the 17th century and in the 19th century. I found here on one of the 19th century graphics an exact representation of this tribal coat of arms from the 19th century with the crown of Chrobre. In other words, it is, you can see it in various kinds of patriotic graphics. Besides, postcards from the 19th and 20th centuries present this crown exactly. Little of this, the city of Krakow changed its coat of arms in 2002, I apologize, and in fact it changed its coat of arms, but most of all it changed its crown. Why is it done? Because we must remember that things seemingly don't matter, that is, what the crown looks like, which probably causes many people to smile in many cases, these are very serious issues of identification of the Polish state. Therefore, Kukiz15 will certainly ask for this and will insist that this crown is here, all the more so because it is a key argument. Lech Kaczyński, the President of the Republic of Poland, is the creator of the Order of the War Cross, which in 2006, praised God, was passed. Ladies and gentlemen, there's a paper in there, erase the crown of Chrobry. If we don't care about it, we can actually throw in any crown from the computer game and basically the village, to the pleasure of the Russians who really care about the problems of the ferns or everyone else. And already being German, I would laugh about it, because not only would I destroy this crown in the 19th century, especially melting it into ducats, but now I would see such a distinction and say: well, in fact Poles sloppyly applied once again. and support the policy of Germany. That's what I'd say. Ladies and gentlemen, this is why: a wonderful project, a wonderful initiative, but let us not be lost to sloppyness, because just as we here are sloppy law, so this sloppy thing unfortunately came out in this situation. The Kukiz Club will ask for amendments so that the legal crown of the Polish state can be found on this award, and it is re-established and rebuilt by a group of enthusiasts. You can see it by typing in Google: Chrobry's crown. That's what she looks like, Bacciarelli gave us. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The look of this crown, so let's respect history. Mr President, thank you for the initiative. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u107	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, the Modern Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u108	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I am pleased to present the position of the Modern Club for the parliamentary bill on the establishment of the Eastern Cross. I agree with the previous speakers that this is a good and needed initiative. The project assumes the establishment of an award of the Eastern Cross, which is to be a token of gratitude, respect for those who helped our fellow countrymen in the years 1937 and 1959. The awarded will receive this cross along with the appropriate ID card. The prize can also be awarded postmortem. It will include people of a non-Polish nationality, which is understandable - those who helped, among others. in the Polish operation in the Soviet Union, which inhabited the territory of the Soviet Union, and in the years 1939 and 1959 they helped the persecuted. The cross will be given by the President of the Republic at the request of the Minister responsible for Foreign Affairs, which may be submitted by unions, combat associations, social organisations, the Head of the Office for Foreign Affairs. Veterans, as well as private individuals, so the range of people who can take the initiative is quite wide. As I said at the outset, it is a very good initiative and we are happy to support such projects, but I would like to say that today I have left the joint meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and our Committee on Communication with Poles abroad with disgust. We have proposed that discussions on important, important issues such as historical issues in relation to Polonia should be discussed calmly so that we do not really commit not only as simple errors as incorrect marking in the award or those issues that my previous speaker spoke about, but also to ensure that the projects are implemented properly, so that we do not lose those ideas that we value, which we respect, through ordinary, hasty work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u109	Thank you very much. Now on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club, Mr Mieczysław Baszko. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u110	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish People's Party, I have the honour to present my position on the draft law on the establishment of the Eastern Cross. I would like to stress that the establishment of the Eastern Cross to commemorate sacrifice in helping Poles in the East by people of a national other than Polish nationality is a valuable initiative. After all, they put their lives and their family or friends at risk. The Polish People's Party is in favour of establishing the award of the Eastern Cross. The establishment of a decoration by the Polish Sejm will allow us symbolically to thank those who saved Poles in the East and at the same time with the highest appreciation to appreciate their merits. Special attention should be paid to those who helped save lives and help Poles, and there were a lot of those who were helping. There were famous people, but a lot of people were nameless. May the Eastern Cross contribute to reconciliation between the Polish people and our neighbours in the East. The Polish People's Party is in favour of the establishment of the Eastern Cross. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u111	Thank you very much. On behalf of Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, the Free and Solidarnia Circle of Members. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u112	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I am pleased to present the Parliamentary bill on the establishment of the Eastern Cross. Previously, Poland did not have the right distinction, which could be awarded to people helping Poles in the East, so this bill fills the existing gap and fulfills the obligation of Poland to people of other nationalities who saved our countrymen. This bill also allows to restore the memory of Poles in Kres, about the dramatic history of the Polish people in the East in the 20th century. In the design of the projectors, this law allows us to express gratitude to those helping Poles persecuted because of their nationality in the East in the years 1937-1959, respect for them and memory of them. Russians, Kazakhs, Uzbeks and Ukrainians often rescued their neighbours - Polish citizens - risking their lives and their families. The Eastern Cross is set up to commemorate the sacrifice of those who, in risking their lives, helped Poles in the East. The crimes committed on Poles were extremely cruel, but the heroism of those who helped our fellow countrymen deserves recognition. Very important in the bill is the record of postmortem giving the cross to deserved people. Such a form can help to build good relations with neighboring nations. It also seems appropriate to me that the cross can be stripped of when its holder behaves in a manner which offends the Republic of Poland or Poles. The award should be an honor not to be ashamed of the nation that gives it. During the first reading of the bill, at the meeting of the Communication Commission with Poles abroad, the legitimacy of the establishment of the Eastern Cross, the distinction for acting in favour of Polish citizens in the years 1937-1959, was stressed. Poland should rebuild its historical policy in Polish-Ukrainian, Polish-Lithuanian, Polish-Belarusian relations, so establishing this award is a step in the right direction. The amendment proposed at the committee meeting was a very correct one. 5. The reference in distinction to the crown of Chrobre, a symbol of the sovereignty of the Polish state, is the right change. I join the voice, which sounded at the meeting of the Communication Commission with Poles abroad, hoping that people awarded this cross will enjoy special interest in Polish diplomatic institutions. The special situation of those living there should be taken into account. Perhaps they should be paid a one-time equivalent in addition to the award and the card. I hope that this solution will be possible in the further steps of the bill's process, after consulting the Minister of Finance. The establishment of the award is a clear signal that the Polish state remembers and honors the people who have preserved humanity in those tragic times. At the same time, it is a sign that these people are real heroes, because for helping Poles they were threatened with various repressions, including death. The establishment of the Eastern Cross award in my opinion can contribute to the authentic reconciliation between the Polish people and our neighbours in the East. In view of the above, the Free and Solidarni Circle supports the bill presented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u113	Thank you very much. Mr Kaminski will now speak on behalf of the circle of European Democrats. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u114	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! This is a very valuable initiative and it is necessary to thank the authors, because this is an initiative that fits into the very good and wise perception of our neighbourhood in the East, it is part of the words that I remember - said the late Pope. President Lech Kaczyński during his visit to Katyn in 2007, when he began this visit from the Orthodox cemetery, from the Russian, Ukrainian, Jewish victims of communist totalitarianism. I remember the words of sleep. Mr President, who said that we Poles know that the nations of the East, the Russian people, the Ukrainian people, just as the Polish people were victims of communist barbarism. We do not look at the Russians, the Ukrainians as the perpetrators of communist barbarism, but we also look at them as victims of this terrible totalitarian system. Remembrance of people who, under very difficult conditions, risking very often, as has rightly been noted, saved their own lives, saved Poles who were treated by the Stalinist regime as citizens not even second, and the third category, was an act of unbelievable courage, was an act of Christianity, an act of humanitarianism. It is good that the Polish state will honor people, even posthumously, who have achieved this heroic effort, which have helped our fellow countrymen in these tragic, terrible moments. I think that anyone who knows the history of Poles in the East except the history of cruelty... I think that in every Polish family there was a memory of Russians, Ukrainians, Georgians, Jews who in these difficult moments reached out to specific Poles who were not afraid of this risk and saved our compatriots from destruction - not only from prison or exile, but sometimes simply from destruction. It is good that today the Polish Sejm pays tribute to these people in the spirit of the deepest solidarity and deepest sense of community of our fates in the East, the fates of nations who fell victim to communist totalitarianism. I think it's a good thing the Sejm will accept such a bill. I hope that it will be a tool - in the best sense - for historical policy. She will remind not only Poles, but also the nations in the East that we Poles remember that we Poles are grateful for this help and that we Poles remember the difficult history and can remember it without hatred, we do not treat it as something that is supposed to divide us, but as something which, although tragically, connects our nations. Around the European Democrats, of course, this project will support and we will look forward to the first people to receive this cross. I also hope that, in addition to this initiative, the current majority of the Sejm, and I know that there are people in it who think very much like me - they are sitting in the room right now - about our neighbourhood in the East... that we will follow other steps in which we will emphasize that Poland is a partner, Poland extends its hand, Poland does not exalt itself, and is an authentic friend of the aspirations of the state and national of our Georgian, Ukrainian, Lithuanian and Belarusian friends. This is the best tradition of Polish politics, this is the best tradition of Polish politics, which has been effective. All those who wish Poland badly and wish badly for the European democratic aspirations of our eastern neighbours, including the democratic aspirations of the Russian people, because the Russians will certainly be among those whom we will distinguish with this cross, and it is worth to make this tribune sound an important voice: I think that in Poland, apart from a few exceptions, there are really no Russians. In the deepest Polish interest is democratic Russia, Russia, which goes towards Europe not with tanks, but with its culture, with which we will be able, as our Polish and Russian rumours once wished, to establish normal relations. We're not against Russia. We are against Russian totalitarianism, against Russian chauvinism. And we are in favour of these nations, which have united the geographical community, from the Russian people through the Georgians, the Azers, the Ukrainians, the Belarusians, the Lithuanians and other Baltic states, so that we may be a true community in friendship, [[♪ The bell ♪]] remembering the story. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u115	Five ladies and gentlemen joined the questions. Since there is no representative of the Ministry, there is no Minister Jan Dziedziczak, I understand that the employees will write down questions and you will receive written answers. The first question is asked by Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, the Civic Platform Club. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u116	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill is important and necessary. This recognition for Poles is important and necessary. But those who helped Poles in the East, foreigners who helped Poles in the East and elsewhere, were very many, hence two questions or some suggestion. The first suggestion is that such a distinction should be directed... I would like to address the question to the President, who is talking now and who will not be able to answer. [[Game in the O.R.]] Maybe I will wait, Mr Marshal, because then it will be difficult for you to answer Mr President if he does not hear the question. [[I'm sorry.]] That's the question. Does the law provide for the provision of two articles that such a cross can be obtained by Poles from all over the world if they provide assistance to Poles in the East? Question two. Isn't it worth considering extending this formula, because during this period [[♪ The bell ♪]] very many Poles were covered by a variety of people...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u117	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u118	I'll just finish my sentence, if you don't mind. ...different nations. Just now in the Senate...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u119	The question is asked by Małgorzata Zwierzan, near Free and Solidarni. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u120	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question. Could the Ministry of Finance in next year's budget allocate funds to financial gratification for people other than Polish people helping Poles in the East? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u121	Thank you very much. Now you are asking Wojciech Zietniak, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u122	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This project is most welcome. And I hope that it will contribute to reconciliation between Poles and Eastern neighbours. However, the question arises: Who will evaluate after all these years and confirm the fact that they are helping Poles? Is the opinion of the President of the Institute of National Remembrance sufficient in this case? Will it be possible to make statements by persons confirming the provision of assistance, made through witnesses of this event, as in various cases of proof of forced labour were sufficient witnesses? Will this form also be accepted? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u123	Thank you very much. Mrs Fabisiak is complaining that she has not completed the second question. By way of exception, because part of the time she spent paying attention to Mr... Half a minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u124	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! So that was the first question. The second question, also raised in committee: If the procedure for granting this cross is to be prepared, there is to be a President's regulation, at the moment there is no regulation, and at the same time the law is to enter into force at the time of publication, then I ask for an answer or for a change, because it seems that it is simply not possible for the whole procedure to start if the regulation is not available. So will the regulation be ready in a short time? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u125	Thank you very much. Now you ask Mr Piotr Pyzik, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u126	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank Mr Michal Dworczyk very warmly for preparing and piloting this project, which shows where Poland is on the civilization map. I would like to ask you a simple question, namely, what spectrum, I mean the number of people, does this project involve? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u127	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Mieczysław Kazimierz Baszko, club PSL.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u128	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question: Is the granting of the Eastern Cross of an institution, association or e.g. a group of people of a given village who helped and e.g. Should we also, are there such cases, commemorating this with the Eastern Cross? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u129	Thank you very much. Before the rapporteur answers, Mr Michał Dworczyk asks the question, as I understand the amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u130	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to begin by making an amendment. In fact, several amendments are the result of discussions with the President of the Republic of Poland, the Heraldic Commission and other persons involved in the preparation of this project. I'll file an amendment to the marshal right away. The most important one is the image of the cross. We have discussed today, also in the Chamber, unfortunately no longer Mr Chrobre's crown was mentioned by the Member. As I said, this image, which ultimately has this distinction, is the result of a discussion with the Heraldic Commission. The amendments, mostly about the image, are made to the hands of the marshal. On the other hand, if you don't mind, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'd like to refer to...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u131	Now, I understand, Mr President, as rapporteur for the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u132	As rapporteur now, it is. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The first question was asked by Mrs Fabisiak: Can Poles from all over the world, if they helped Poles in the East, be decorated? Of course, there is no restriction on citizenship in the Act, there are no enumeratively listed countries whose citizens can be marked, so the answer is yes. Secondly, is the entry into force not too fast, or will the regulation be prepared? In one of the amendments that I submitted to the marshal, there is a deadline which has been set with the President of the Republic of Poland in such a way that not only the regulation is prepared, but also that the decorations are carried out so that these decorations can be awarded immediately after the entry into force of the law. Mrs Zwierzan asked the question actually to the Ministry of Finance. This is, of course, a question to the Ministry, and I can only say that the law itself does not provide for any gratification for those who have been awarded, but also does not exclude. Therefore, I think it would be possible to put in place such a practice that the distinguished will be able to expect some kind of support from, for example, consular posts of the Republic of Poland. Mr Potatoak asked about the means of verification. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has the initiative to award these awards, which must consult the IPN. The Institute of National Remembrance cooperates with its counterparts in practically all countries of the former Soviet Union. The Institute of National Remembrance can also use witness accounts, statements of people who have seen or know about certain situations or relationships themselves and can describe them. It is a matter of situations which would entitle you to apply for a decoration for a given person. So it really depends on the efficiency and commitment of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Institute of National Remembrance. The spectrum of searches for such people that can be marked is really very large. I believe that several research programs will be launched on people saving Poles, whether in Soviet Russia, whether in Ukraine during genocide, or simply in the area of Kresów I and II of the Republic. Thanks to this, the catalogue of these people will continue to expand. Here I come to the question of Mr Pyzik, how many people can receive such a distinction. In my opinion it is a certain past and a certain shame of the Polish state that we have never studied these dramatic events from decades ago. In fact, we do not know exactly how many Poles were subjected to repression at the time in Kresów I and II of the Republic, and we do not know how many of them received help. Like I said, I'm done talking to the IPN and the Ministry of Culture. I know that from next year, such research will start in Ukraine. I think in other countries of the former Soviet Union, too. At the moment, I can encourage you to read the publication of the Institute of National Remembrance a few years ago about the Ukrainians saving Poles in the years 1943-1945. There are more than a few hundred names of such righteous Ukrainians who saved the lives of their Polish neighbours. Mr Baszko asked if such an award could be granted to a locality. As far as I know, this practice was in the case of the Virtuti Militari War Order, but it's probably the only award that could have been given, whether it's a town or a military unit. Unfortunately, the law does not provide for such practice in the present form. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u133	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Commission for Communication with Poles abroad in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the Commercial Quality of Agricultural and Food Products (Prints No. 792 and 957). I ask Mr Zbigniew Dolata to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u134	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law amending the Trade Quality Act on agri-food products, contained in print No 957, and the draft law to which it relates is print No 792. The first reading of the project took place in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on 4 October, followed by a subcommittee, whose report was examined by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on 21 October and adopted unanimously. The aim of the amendment is to introduce the possibility of voluntary labelling of food products with information about the Polish product along with the identification of the design of the mark. It should be pointed out that the Polish Product mark will be used by itself, as well as the labels, by the marketing entity of the agri-food article concerned. The correct use of this mark by traders will be subject to inspection of the Quality of Trade Inspection of Agricultural and Food Articles, as is currently controlled by the composition of the product described on the label. So what conditions must the trader fulfil? In the case of a unprocessed product, the Polish product can use the mark, if the primary production took place in the territory of the Republic of Poland, and in the case of meat - if it was additionally obtained from animals born in Poland and their breeding and slaughter took place in the territory of Poland. In the case of processed products, the label can be used if these products are manufactured in the territory of the Republic of Poland from ingredients manufactured in Poland, with the use of imported raw materials up to 25% by weight of the final product, provided that they are not present or cannot be manufactured in Poland. As a result of the adoption of this amendment, consumers will be able to search for those products that were produced in Poland from native raw materials on the shelves. The vast majority of consumers expect such solutions. Similar solutions have already been applied in some countries of the European Union. At this point, it is worth noting that this amendment is in line with European Union law. During the work of the Agriculture Committee, the Kukiz Club submitted two amendments, but they were not supported by a majority of Members. The proposed changes are expected by most consumers and food producers in Poland, both farmers and entrepreneurs, so on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development I would like the High Sejm to adopt a government bill amending the act on the commercial quality of agri-food products. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u135	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Krzysztof Szulowski will be the first to speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u136	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present the position of the Law and Justice Club on the proposed amendment of the Act of 21 December 2000 on the commercial quality of agri-food products, printing Nos 792 and 957. The project concerns the introduction of new regulations on the voluntary labelling of foodstuffs with information about the Polish product, together with the definition of the design of the graphic symbol to be used when indicating such information. Until now, the law has not regulated the issue of labelling foodstuffs with information about the country of origin. The introduction of clear criteria enabling voluntary information to be provided by the Polish Product will enable interested consumers to search for products manufactured in Poland using Polish raw materials. This is to meet the needs of both consumers interested in purchasing products manufactured in the country and producers who would like to provide information on the national origin of the product produced both with regard to the place of production and with regard to the ingredients used. At present, consumers are very often unaware that a product, which they regard as a Polish product because of its brand, does not really have much in common with this term because it was produced from foreign ingredients, e.g. meat from animals not only unborn in Poland, but even here not bred. However, the need for information on the origin of a number of food products is high among consumers. The proposed changes are designed to meet these expectations and prevent abuse. The use of an unambiguously sound term "Polish product" will mean to the consumer that it can be sure that the product has been manufactured in the country and the raw materials for its production are of national origin. In the case of unprocessed agri-food products, such a product must meet the following criteria: the product is not processed, although of course it can be split, ground, frozen, etc., production, cultivation or breeding, including harvesting, milking in the case of cows, sheep and goats, took place in the territory of Poland. In the case of meat, it is additionally required that it be obtained from animals born in Poland and their breeding and slaughter took place in the territory of our country and, in the case of non-meat products of animal origin, that it be obtained from animals raised in the territory of Poland. In the case of agri-food products, the following conditions are processed to meet: processing took place in the territory of Poland from raw materials or produced in Poland, other than those indicated above, must not exceed 25% the total weight of all ingredients at the time of their use for the manufacture of this product, excluding the water used, and those components cannot be replaced by the same ingredients which were produced in Poland. Given that it is now possible to market graphical signs with information from the Polish product developed by individual manufacturers to harmonise the transmission of information to consumers and prevent confusion, a one-year transitional period for the marketing of foodstuffs, which are marked with a graphic mark containing information from the Polish product which does not comply with the model set out in the implementing rules of the Act, even if the product fulfils the conditions set out in the Act for the posting of information. The transitional period aims to prevent food waste and the use of packaging labelled before the proposed law enters into force, while at the same time preventing the trading of different graphical characters containing information about the Polish product. Compliance with the proposed legislation on voluntary labelling of agri-food products with the information "Polish product" will be subject to control of the commercial quality carried out by the Agricultural and Food Quality Inspection. Polish food is characterized by very good quality and other qualities from other countries. There are many companies producing in Poland that would like to boast about this and stand out against the background of other manufacturers. The origin of the product is a very important factor in consumer choices. The amendment of these provisions will benefit both producers and buyers. The act will be part of strengthening the consumer patriotism of Poles. Therefore, the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development deserves to be commended for the drafting of this bill, and the Law and Justice Club will of course support it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u137	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, Mr Artur Dunin. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u138	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Civic Platform Club would like to refer to the proposed amendments to the Trade Quality Act on agri-food products set out in Draft Law No 792 and in the report in print No 957. The Civic Platform Club welcomes the initiative of Law and Justice, the government. It is very good that the Ministry of Agriculture of Law and Justice appreciates good Polish food and wanted to introduce these changes to this law. I am very pleased that during the discussion, at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, we solved various problems regarding the size, content of other products up to 25%, and also about the fact that production can also be carried out by another company, because such amendments were influenced, not only by Polish ones, if it meets the criteria of products from which it produces good food, it can also receive such a stamp. I am also glad, because this is an important thing that the Ministry also predicted when it comes to vacathio legis, about already made, printed packaging, that by the end of December 2017 you will be able to use these documents, packaging. On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I would like to say that the Civic Platform Club will support the changes in the law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u139	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Sachajko will now speak on behalf of the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u140	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I am pleased to present my position on the draft law introducing the designation of the Polish Product. While agreeing on the idea of product labelling, it is worth considering whether the regulations proposed in the draft law meet their objective of providing the consumer with real information. According to the Ipsos report, is there a fashion for Polishness? * carried out in March this year on a representative sample of Poles only 8% The respondents acknowledge that the Polish product is manufactured in Poland by a company with foreign capital. 66% On the other hand, the respondents consider that under the term: the Polish product is only covered by the goods which were produced in Poland by an entity with Polish capital. The results of the survey therefore argue with the Ministry's proposal to mark the products that were manufactured on the territory of the Republic of Poland, whether the food producer is a Polish company or a foreign company. As a result, the customer will not obtain reliable, reliable and as expected information about the product he buys. It should be made clear that the Polish product will mislead consumers because it will be able to be placed on food produced by a foreign company that has its subsidiary in Poland. We will break another character and still the only reliable source of information will be an application for smartphones called Fields, which clearly and clearly shows whether a given product is Polish or not. After reading the project, I thought it was just an unintended effect, failing to see the creators of the project. During the meetings of the Extraordinary Commission to consider this project, I tabled amendments three times with regard to the designation of the Polish Product in order to take account of the origin of capital in addition to the territory of production. To my surprise, my amendments met with a lack of understanding from the Ministry. In my opinion, this situation results in a simple conclusion: the Polish product is intended to create only appearances of promotion of Polish products. There will be a belief that we have made a bill that something has been done, and in fact the public will still have no information. We will support foreign companies that carry out this wealth abroad with the money of Polish farmers, supporting the budgets there. It is even more surprising to think of food produced in only 75% of raw materials originating in Poland as a Polish product, the remaining 25% could come from any other corner of the world. I have no idea what was behind the project's creators, but certainly not the promotion of Polish food and its Polish producers. Therefore, I would propose to change the designation to the "Product" produced mostly from Polish raw materials, perhaps by the Polish company. It's gonna be a lot fairer. Do you imagine that in France, in Germany, the governments there would try to make such a regulation so that the Polish producer would go to France, produce cheese there and mean it as a French product? At once, such a regulation would have been misunderstanding by farmers, trade unions, and would have to fall. Why, then, is this possible in Poland? To whose benefit will this bill work? Therefore, I must assess the project as populist, which introduces informational chaos for consumers. Despite the right idea regarding the project, Kukiz15 opposes the adoption of the law in its current form. In view of the above, I submit to the Marshal an amendment to restore Poland's character to the Polish Product. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u141	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń will now speak on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u142	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! I am pleased to present on behalf of the Poselski Club a modern position on the government draft law amending the Act on Commercial Quality of Agricultural and Food Products, contained in print No. 792, following the presentation of the report of the committee, contained in print No. 957. Ladies and gentlemen! Any amendment of the law, which brings with it the possibility of supporting entrepreneurs, producers - our native and Polish - is necessary. After all, it is thanks to them that Poland gets richer and citizens become richer. Entrepreneurship, especially based on national resources, deserves a wide range of support. This support does not have to take costly forms for the budget of the state. It is enough that companies are not disturbed, new laws that complicate economic regulations are not being adopted, bureaucratic burdens are being removed, reporting rules are not tightened, new obligations are not introduced, or the tax system is finally changing in such a way that the tax system is more efficient, and the rules are clearer, and not so that as a result of tax reform, these companies are scooped up for an additional PLN 16 billion, which - as all Poles see - has recently become a priority of the PiS government. And I must say that this presentation is such a drop of honey in the whole barrel of the day that PiS has given to Poles and our entrepreneurs during this last year. The amendment of the Act of 21 December 2000 on the commercial quality of agri-food products by the High House introduces the possibility of voluntary labelling of foodstuffs with information about the Polish product. This is a proposal that needs to be assessed positively at this stage of the legislative process. Ladies and gentlemen! The current rules do not regulate the labelling of foodstuffs with regard to the country of origin. Only the general rules on country of origin contained in the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2011 on the provision of information to consumers on food, amending or repealing other Regulations and Directives refer to this issue. Importantly, in accordance with Article. Article 26 (2) (b) 2 The labelling of the source or place of origin of the finished product is mandatory only if the absence of such information could seriously mislead the consumer as to the true source of origin. This formulation of EU rules is extremely beneficial. They will allow voluntary labelling of food products information about their production in Poland. Such designation may have multiple effects. Firstly, it will allow consumers to make an informed choice, because Poles are interested in acquiring products manufactured in Poland. I think we all know that. Secondly, it will enable Polish entrepreneurs to distinguish those food products which are produced in Poland, because - as the government also indicated in the explanatory memorandum to this law - some producers, listening to the voices of consumers, would like to provide information on the national origin of the product produced and the ingredients used. On the basis of the provisions of this law, they will be able to do so. However, we are surprised by the fact that the labelling of products with information about the Polish product will take place on a voluntary basis and depending on the decision of the entity. What an unusual path for the PiS, where the entity is not the subject of a decision by the state authorities, only a decision can be taken by itself. We appreciate that. [[There you go.]] We call for more such cases of trust in Poles. High Izbo! The conditions for marking the information of the Polish Product are formulated in the draft law. Of course, questions arise, e.g. about how the 25% will be assessed the weight of the product that does not have to come from Poland. However, as the Agricultural and Food Articles Trade Quality Inspection will ensure compliance, the solution at this stage seems sufficient to us. To sum up, we believe that the solution contained in the submission will help to establish the market position and attract new customers to Polish entrepreneurs, Polish farmers, those companies that produce in Poland from Polish components. In view of my position, I would like to inform you that the Modern Posel Club will support this presentation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u143	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Maliszewski will now speak on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u144	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The position of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club towards this project is relatively positive, i.e. We believe that this project should be processed. This project, on the other hand, seems to have more disadvantages than advantages in our assessment. The speakers have already talked about this. It's pretty positive, I mean. you had good intentions, but the execution does not fully confirm or express those intentions. Of course, we observe such trends in Poland and in Europe, we often call them consumer patriotism, regional patriotism, local patriotism, where citizens want to eat food from a given area, produced in a given country, from where they live. Such a trend is also seen in EU legislation, because we have several signs that speak about the protection of geographical indications or designations of origin. However, if we refer to this patriotism, it is also worth paying attention to what, first of all - whether in Poland or in another European country or in the world - the consumer is guided by entering the shop or the place of sale, choosing the product. Well, first of all, he decides to buy this product, given the price. This is the first parameter that's taken into account. Only in second place is the quality parameter. On the third other parameters, e.g. visual, somewhere far away taste, and at the end of which country this product comes from. But this is due to our positive assessment of intent. However, this trend is worth changing, clearly to the consumer, what it eats. Besides, we can give an example when Russia introduced an embargo, there was a nationwide action supporting Polish Sadists, an action of eating apples. And that really translated into an increase in consumption, but for a month or two or three. Today everyone has forgotten about it and everyone, going to the store, chooses apples first, which are cheaper and not those which are Polish. And we win this competition because we offer apples cheaper. And I think that's all about the good intentions. Now, on the other hand, what are the drawbacks of this project. First of all, this is an incorrect regulation, i.e. it causes that on the side can be sold under this symbol products of unknown origin, from unknown raw materials, of unknown quality. Because the control system which under this law is entrusted with the Agricultural and Food Quality Inspection is leaky, because the inspection does not have so many officials, nor so many inspectors, nor such structures, so that it can effectively control whether the sausage is only made from half-carcases coming from a Polish pig or sometimes not from a Danish pig in a given meat plant. Because they hang alternately on the hooks in the freezer, and only later do they go to the sausage production. Or even bread - we are not able to tell today whether it will be made from flour originating in Poland or from flour from Ukraine. And no inspector of the commercial quality of agri-food will be able to prove it or deny it. So there is a fear that thanks to this sign we will not inform consumers, but disinformation, and in fact those who want to make a profit on this, will not be Polish farmers or Polish entrepreneurs, and we would like to see that thanks to this law, first of all, Polish producers, also Polish farmers. Anyway, that's what we're talking about in the explanatory memorandum, but there's no way you can see that profit. It would also be worth considering why there is no provision under this law to promote this mark, to inform consumers that if you buy a product with such a mark, you will surely find Polish food, good quality food, food that pleases you. And these are the flaws that we see in this project, and there are even more of them. This project, once again, I will stress this - even though it has good intentions - this is a project which is rather a project written for political needs, no different. I do not see it, I am honest that this project translates into an increase in the income of those who operate in Poland on the food market, Poles and Polish companies, Polish farmers. This project is leaky - there have already been many ideas to promote Polish food, these signs were immense, today even some brands are promoting their products, saying that it is a Polish product. So this will cause confusion rather than provide real information to consumers about the product. It seems that the ruling party should be expected to pay much more attention to obtaining higher prices for agricultural products by Polish farmers, not by this method or not by this way, because thanks to this project the situation of Polish farmers will not improve. She's definitely not gonna change because of this project. Let me stress this once again: the consumer, going to the store, chooses a product that is cheaper before all. It is necessary to make Polish food continue, as it has been so far, which you have repeatedly questioned, also in the external markets to win. She won not only quality, but also the price of the product, and this is where legislation should go. I haven't seen such a project in this year, because mostly they were staff projects that allow me to convert people who are not my own into my own institutions. However, when you see these flaws, it's worth it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm working on this project to even bring this into legal order, because your power is about to end...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u145	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u146	...and those who come will have a project ready and they will have something to correct. Maybe then they'll make it a real brand of Polish food. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u147	On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, Mr Ireneusz Gaina will speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u148	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarni Circle, I present my position on the government draft law amending the Act on Commercial Quality of Agricultural and Food Products. The draft law deals with the possibility of additional labelling of agri-food products with a graphic symbol containing the information of the Polish product and regulates the formal conditions for such a product. Poles like Polish agri-food products and believe that they are better, healthier and tastier than produced abroad with highly specialised industrial methods aimed at minimizing production costs, often at the price of lower quality parameters. Such an opinion about Polish products is also common outside our country. Currently, the situation in terms of naming Polish products is very ambiguous and can often be misleading. This applies in particular to processed products. It is enough that the imported product is packaged or slightly modified by the Polish producer, and can already be described as a Polish product. [[It's okay.]] It is worth noting that the Polish product is visible and unambiguous, so that it is clear what it means and what the buyer guarantees. Members of the Free and Solidarnia Circle support initiatives aimed at easier access of customers to information supporting producers of products from Polish raw materials in production plants located in Poland and initiatives that will easily allow informed choice of products purchased, especially since this marking is not mandatory and introduced voluntarily by the manufacturer. At the same time, I would like to mention two examples that illustrate how difficult it is to create a good clear law, effective and good for citizens. As defined in the amendment of the law, we cannot name an orange drink with 30% orange juice content, but an orange drink with 25% juice content can already be a Polish product. In this way, the amendment can contribute to a deterioration of the quality of the product. The second example is related to meat production. Now meat production is very often done, let's call it this, in the technological process, where animals are one of the raw materials. What is the effect that meat will come from animals grown, slaughtered and undressed in Poland if the second raw material in the production process is imported feed, additionally containing plant ingredients from genetically modified plants? Will it also be a Polish product? Probably similar examples can be cited more, so it is worth rethinking the definitions contained in the amendment, whether these definitions should be included in the law in this form. Would it not be better to introduce more detailed provisions in the relevant regulation of the competent minister? Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There is one other question that is not raised in the amendment - what about products that do not comply with the requirements of the Act, but their producers will want to use the indication that it is a Polish product? It is clear that producers will not be able to use a proprietary logo, but it is no longer obvious that the use of a similar mark or an own mark of such content is prohibited. We appreciate this legislative initiative as being intended to protect the market of Polish agri-food producers, but in order for the draft law already to have the intended effect, it is necessary to specify in detail which product, by which product, under which conditions, and from which components will be marked as a Polish product benefiting from legal protection. On behalf of the Free and Solidarni Circle, I request that the bill be further examined in committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u149	Thank you. Six ladies and gentlemen joined the questions. I'm closing the list of enlisted Members. I'm setting time for a question for one minute. Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, the Law and Justice Club, asks the question first.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u150	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The project regulates the extremely important issue of Polish product labels. As we read in the explanatory memorandum, the origin of products is important for the vast majority of Poles. Graphic marking with the inscription "Polish product" will allow Poles to see our native products in the first place. I would like to ask, by the way, because this is also important in the case of exports of our goods, goods abroad, whether the regulation of labelling of foodstuffs information about the country of origin for products that are about to be exported has been considered. I am referring here to a special logotype, a graphic symbol that would be associated with our country abroad. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u151	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u152	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Legal solutions should be assessed positively. Such labelling has already been introduced by some European Union countries, among which Slovakia was the first to do so. In the procedated project there is a proposal to consider as a Polish product only one which was produced from raw materials derived from Polish crops or breeding. On the other hand, imported ingredients may be used in processed products at a maximum of 25% by weight of the final product. Markings on food may be given voluntarily by producers. However, it may happen that there will be abuse in this matter. Therefore, it will be necessary to check the use of such an indication. Therefore, what instruments of control are envisaged by the government in these arrangements, [[♪ The bell ♪]] to whom they will be entrusted and will any penalties be imposed for the unjustified or unauthorised use of the Polish product? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u153	Thank you. The question is asked by Artur Dunin, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u154	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a short two questions. First question: Does the Ministry provide any additional money for the Agricultural and Food Quality Inspection? Because this agency will be required to make sure that the product is correctly marked. It's pretty important, these are important things. If it is to be a Polish product, then let it actually be in accordance with the law. Someone's got to keep an eye on this, and it's definitely gonna cost more to the inspection. Is there any way you can predict these things? And the other thing. If it is actually an additional trademark - a Polish product, did you predict any promotion, have any money, financial resources, so that not only in Poland this stamp has some quality, but also abroad? These are important things that I think should be used. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I've still got... Marshal, three more seconds, okay? I'm just gonna finish the question. One thing I'm afraid of is that you're gonna want to find money from the producers again. Just like in the countermeasures bill...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u155	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u156	...unfair exploitation of the contract advantage you wanted to introduce an article. 32a...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u157	Mr President, you have run out of time. You're welcome to finish.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u158	...here, in this bill you wanted...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u159	Mr President, you have run out of time. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u160	...to add additional fees, which is an additional tax. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] So that's what I wouldn't want, no fees. As usual, censorship, when you say uncomfortable about the PiS. I understand. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[That's something to talk about.]] [[But it's my time.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u161	Well, that's okay. You have to speak comfortably. [[But it's got to be two minutes, not one minute. Why did you limit the marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u162	Mr. Marshal! And if I speak well, will I not have censorship? Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you a question like that. Polish agriculture, Polish agricultural products are very successful. Exports last year were EUR 25 billion, 7 billion surplus, so the increase until last year was quite large. I have a question for the Minister: How are our agri-industrial products exported this year? But I also have a question: Will this marking of goods not adversely affect our exports? Because there may be a contractor who wants to buy a Polish product - good contract, cool prices, but if he sees this packaging, which will already be in the warehouse with this logo, he may have objections. And then what? Aren't you worried that this might have a negative effect? [[♪ The bell ♪]] for the external market? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u163	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Marek Kwitek, a club called Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u164	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The introduction of clear criteria enabling voluntary information to be provided by the Polish Product is an essential solution for the effective support of domestic producers. Finally, this will enable interested consumers to search for products manufactured in Poland using Polish raw materials. Mr Maliszewski, however, consumers, according to research, more than 70% they follow the country of origin of the product. They want to know, because it certainly directly affects shopping. Nor do I understand such a grudge from you that everything that the Law and Justice are trying to do is wrong. You, too, had the opportunity to introduce a law that would meet your expectations. You didn't do it. Passwords The Polish Product, produced in Poland are used [[♪ The bell ♪]] at this point in the market. And now will the ministry be...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u165	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u166	...promoted the logo, the product so that consumers could choose consciously? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u167	The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u168	Mr. Marshal! There wasn't a bitch in my speech. All I can do is give you more facts. Poland was a huge food exporter: EUR 25 billion per year. Poland had a very positive balance of trade in agri-food products... [[Voice from the room: And it still is.]] ...over €7 billion a year. Poland meets the needs of its consumers when it comes to food produced in Poland at more than 80%, which is an exception in the European Union, so it does not have to be spoiled and nothing needs to be changed. I fear that this project, this sign, will cause a phenomenon in the European Union which will be detrimental to Poland. Well, in other European Union countries, which are importers of Polish food, there may be such a thought as is in some parts of your group today, that you have to set a border, a barrier, and not allow imported food to enter this country. If we set such barriers, we will suffocate with Polish food. We win by the fact that no one is putting barriers on us, not by the fact that we are putting barriers on us, and others are going to put barriers on us. Therefore, the question to the Ministry. What's the official position at last? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Are we in favour of free trade in food in Europe, or are we in favour of barriers?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u169	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. We have an answer from the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Minister Jack Bogucki. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u170	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To answer the questions, I would like to say that the purpose of the law is to regulate a matter which has so far been unregulated, and which was often used by manufacturers in such a way that producers actually used various types of references to the Polish mark, to the Polish flag, to mark the name.The Polish product in various other forms, which was misleading. We give the possibility of voluntary labelling in this law, but on the other hand we prohibit marking in such a way as to cause counterfeiting. And the answer to the audit question. Our inspection is prepared for this. The appropriations will be higher than in the current year. At the same time, a penalty of up to 10% for an entrepreneur may be imposed if this is found to be the result of an inspection of the phenomenon. revenue, as in the case of counterfeiting of each product. As far as product labelling and exports are concerned, of course producers will be able to use this mark voluntarily for exports, while in general it is aimed at Polish consumers. It will also be a voluntary decision of the exporter. I do not think that the impact on exports is negative, because there will be no such cases, as I said, the obligation to mark products intended for export, and at the same time, if there is a situation when a counterparty wants to buy products from Poland for export, then even on the basis of barcode these products are identifiable. Thus, it is generally the case that export-oriented products are adapted to the requirements of the importer. So, of course, we're all for free trade. But it is not true that other countries do not apply restrictions. Our closest neighbors apply different kinds of restrictions. Other countries of the European Union also introduce mandatory marking. In this respect, we propose a voluntary formula. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u171	Thank you very much. Would the rapporteur like to speak? [[No, no questions asked.]] Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that it was submitted at second reading to the draft amendment, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the report by the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft law on the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal (prints No 880 and No 920). I ask Mr Waldemar Buda to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u172	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, I would like to submit a report on Parliament's draft law on the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, print No 880. The Commission discussed this project on 17 October 2016. I would also like to remind you that the project concerned the organisation of all issues relating to the functioning of the Constitutional Tribunal, and in this case concerning the status of judges. This is largely the implementation of the conclusions of the report of experts appointed by the Marshal of the Sejm. There was such a suggestion that this matter should be separated and the organisation and procedure put into a single act, the status of a judge in a separate, and the transitional provisions that would implement both of these acts in an even separate act. This is the part of the implementation of these recommendations. I would like to remind you that the Act contains elements relating to property claims, disciplinary proceedings and other rights and obligations of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. The Commission, in its deliberations, adopted several legislative amendments that had arranged the draft. There were also 12 amendments which were not supported by the committee and which, according to the wishes of the applicants today, constitute minority proposals. I would like to point out that, unfortunately, these were not constructive amendments, i.e. all except one intended to delete the entire statutory provisions, which would result in inconsistencies and legal deficiencies. It is worth mentioning, for example, the amendment tabled by Mr Kropiwnicki, which proposed the deletion of the article. 2, which contains only information that the Constitutional Tribunal consists of 15 Judges and that a judge may be applied for by a person with legal knowledge. This indicates that these amendments were not fully aimed at developing a good project, but rather to prolong the work, they were destructive in nature. There's one more thing I'd like to point out. We started work Monday at hours. It took 14 and an hour to convince Members of the opposition, to tell them why they would do so at 14 o'clock. 14 and why on Monday. Moreover, I have allowed myself to count how many times Mrs Gasiuk-Pihowicz has spoken without being authorized to do so. It turns out 42 times. It comes out every 12.5 minutes for 9 hours on average. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[That's in the committee's report?]] So it wasn't the easiest. Returning to the substance, I ask you to adopt the draft law in accordance with its form proposed in the report and to reject the amendments that constitute minority proposals. Thank you very much. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Ad vocem.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u173	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz will be the first to speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u174	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The bill implements the recommendations of the expert team, which was appointed by the Marshal of the Sejm. The panel of experts then suggested that matter concerning the Constitutional Tribunal should be regulated in several legal acts. Indeed, the Act on the Status of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal is the implementation of this suggestion and is a legal act which implements all that concerns the status of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. We discussed this law in detail at first reading. I will therefore not repeat those solutions which have been proposed to the High House. I would just like to stress what was at the time in the discussion: so on the good side, this law collects basically all the provisions concerning judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, which so far have been scattered in many different legal acts. It is desirable that, as far as the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal are concerned, they be in a single legal act. At the time, it was alleged that it was nothing new, because the law is - as the opposition said - a repetition of the provisions which have been operating on the basis of other laws for years and concern the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. So I welcome the fact that we are not introducing a revolution here as regards the status of judges, while we are ordering matter. In fact, the draft contains new solutions concerning, for example, statements of property of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. This triggered a debate in plenary at first reading, but also during committee work. Namely, the Members of the opposition were, generally speaking, opposed to publicising the statements of property of the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, accusing them, asking: Why should the disclosure of the assets of the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal serve? We constantly say that we are talking about the transparency of public life. Since the most important persons in the State make declarations of property, it is also important that the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal make such declarations, both before taking office, later on each year, by 31 March and finally, after the completion of their mission at the Constitutional Court. Among the new solutions are also those which limit the additional employment of the judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. Some radically believed that the appointment of a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal for Polish conditions was very high and fair. They expected even further restrictions, claiming that the judge of the Constitutional Tribunal should therefore no longer undertake any additional work. We thought, however, that we would leave the possibility to work with one employer as a teaching and academic. In response to the expectation of the judge's environment, the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal - even though they are judges, want to keep in touch with scientific work - guided by these considerations, we have actually left the possibility of employment in this project, but we have limited it to one employer. Someone might be surprised to see one employer. The practice was that some judges worked at many universities, different employers, regardless of being a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. Another thing that electrified, which was the reason for the turbulent discussion, was the imposition of an obligation of apoliticity on the judges at rest. And again in the discussions it was emphasized that the opposition indicated this as a circumstance, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which closes down the possibilities of criticism. No, it's not. If anyone wants to...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u175	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u176	I'm done, Mr. Marshal. If anyone wants to take...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u177	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u178	...active participation in political life may renounce this status. And this...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u179	Now on behalf of the Parliamentary Club...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u180	At second reading, Mr. Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u181	... The Civic Platform will be delivered by Mr Boris Budk.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u182	Just that I'm making two amendments. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] to the Act on the Status of Judges of the Tribunal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u183	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u184	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is another law that affects matters relating to the Constitutional Tribunal, and in this case it is probably time to ask the question why you are doing all this. In fact, the Law and Justice of this Law reveals the cards. He discovers the cards, showing that it's all been a smokescreen for the past year. It wasn't about fixing the Constitutional Court, because it didn't need to be repaired, it just needed to wait for the judgment of 3 December, publish, execute and error would be corrected. In the meantime, for a year the Constitutional Tribunal has become the target of an unparalleled attack and struggle on the part of the so-called. It's a good change. The Constitutional Tribunal was disgusted in the eyes of the public, was chosen as the worst enemy possible only because one man could not understand the principle of three divisions of power. [[I can't either.]] The Constitutional Tribunal was disgusted by Poles because one Member in this parliament has a president who, at his command, travels to Żoliborz at night to meet and talk... [[Who's that?]] ...has a prime minister who, under constitutional responsibility, does not publish final final decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal. But this Member cannot bear the one thing - that the President of the Constitutional Tribunal has proved to be unfit for all influences, suggestions and guardians of the independence of the Tribunal. Therefore, the applicants believe that judges of the Constitutional Tribunal should be humiliated. How, unlike the humiliation of the 9-year term elected judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, would you call the order that after the age of 70 under the threat of losing a mandate, which is, of course, unconstitutional, bring a medical certificate in your teeth, and even you do not know which doctor it should be from, because I think you were referring to a doctor at work? As opposed to an attempt to force the imposition of non-constitutional arrangements, we call the proposal that persons who are not judges of the tribunal should take part in the general assembly and in the proceedings of the tribunal, because they have been selected for the seats, as decided by the Constitutional Tribunal in three judgments... [[No, it's not.]] ... two from the previous year and one order from January this year? How much hypocrisy and hypocrisy does it take to now, after a year of pretending to fix the tribunal, to withdraw from the proposals of these pseudo-reforms, queuing cases, the greater majority? You are only concerned with one thing - to have your Constitutional Tribunal, only to block it, only to achieve a simple goal: a total state, a country in which a citizen is treated as a voting machine and only a cog in a great machine, where an ordinary person will not count, because there will be one party, one power and only under the dictation of one man in Poland will be established, which is consistent with the constitution and what is not. We've lost a year so far. A year that could be used to improve the efficiency of justice, to further introduce tools to speed up judicial processes, to introduce a horizontal promotion of judges, to issues related to electronic reproving, to perpetual books or to an e-submission office. A year lost, only to fulfill one man's dream - subject the Constitutional Tribunal to only your political purposes. That's never gonna be okay. You may have the majority, but this majority will pass and we will clean up after you, but unfortunately this smell has spread all over the world. [[Applause]] [[...the smell is the Platform.]] [[Voice from the room: It's the...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u185	Go ahead and win the election. Mr Tomasz Romankowski will speak on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome. There's no envoy? [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] On behalf of the Club Modern Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u186	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! You can pass any bill on the Constitutional Tribunal case, but you haven't been able to convince anyone that you want to fix anything in the last 12 months. Neither Polish lawyers nor European lawyers, not even your own voters, are able to convince this. The aim was simply to torture the public on the subject of the Constitutional Tribunal. The statute on the status of judges of the tribunal prepared by you is not only a political leash on which PiS wants to hold the tribunal, but also an inexhaustible legal mine of bulls. For decades, law students will learn from the PiS projects how not to write the law. I'll just mention the most important things, starting with the newly identified ones. Here are the seven most important legal bases of this law and the rules taken by the tribunal on a political leash. Firstly, giving Zbigniew Zioba as Minister of Justice the right to immediately remove from the judgment of any Judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. This has not yet been discussed, but such will be the consequences of using seemingly innocent-looking art. 30 projects. It provides that, in cases not governed by the law, disciplinary action is to be applied accordingly, inter alia. rules on the system of common courts, which means that Zbigniew Ziobro, as Minister of Justice, may not only apply for the reopening of disciplinary proceedings, but may also apply under Article. Article 130 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Laws on the system of common courts order an immediate interruption in the duties of a judge, e.g. where, on account of the nature of the act carried out by the judge, the seriousness of the court or the essential interests of the service require him to be removed from his duties immediately. This is an excellent area for political abuses by the PIS against the judges of the tribunal. We have seen the abuse and violation of the rules by PiS politicians many times. Secondly, the legal bubble is to prevent former judges of the tribunal, usually prominent representatives of Polish law science, from sitting in international legal bodies. That's from the article. Article 33 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 a project which prohibits retiring judges from taking up additional employment, except as a scientific and teaching worker. In a word, either colleges or nothing. Perhaps such a ban is in the interests of the PiS, but it is certainly not in the interests of Poland. Thirdly, the legal bubble aimed at subjugating the PiS tribunal is an attempt to close the mouth of the former judges of the Tribunal under the threat of losing the benefits provided for the judge at rest. Such consequences lie in the article. Article 33 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 a project which provides that a judge of the resting tribunal cannot conduct a public activity incompatible with the principles of the independence of the courts and the independence of the judges. Retired judges as prominent representatives of the legal community have often commented on legal solutions in Parliament. The PiS clearly cannot stand the fact that outstanding legal authorities expose the imperfections prepared by the government and the majority of parliamentary legislative proposals. Fourthly, the legal bubble aimed at subjugating the PiS tribunal is an attempt to illegally legitimise Mr Henryk Cioch, Mr Lech Moravian and Mr Mariusz Muszyński as judges of the Court where the persons concerned could not be elected to the Court on 2 December 2015, as at that time all the positions in the Court were filled. [[Applause]] [[Bullshit.]] Despite the clear and final ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal, the representatives of the PiS are nevertheless trying to re-establish a rule which is contrary to the Article. 194 of the Constitution states that it is not the election of a judge by the Sejm, but the taking of an oath to the President is a constitutional act to cast a given judge's position in the Court. Meanwhile, President Duda had no right to challenge the legality of the election of three judges by the Sejm of his previous term of office and was obliged to take the oath from them, not from three anointed Jarosław Kaczyński. The lack of the President's duty is a manifest violation of the Constitution by Andrzej Duda. Fifthly, the legal bubble aimed at subjugating the PiS Tribunal is to give the Prosecutor General Zbigniew Zioba and the President the opportunity to request disciplinary action against the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. Sixthly, the legal bubble aimed at subjugating the PiS tribunal is a provision contrary to the Constitution, which provides for the shortening of the term of office of the judge of the Tribunal due to the failure to submit a certificate of capacity to perform duties after the age of 70. And after the seventh legal bubble aimed at subjugating the PiS tribunal, it is to determine the principle of the choice of judges of the Tribunal in the Sejm's Rules of Procedure rather than in the Act, as already indicated by the Court. This bill will end badly for Poland, for Poles, Poles and the future of Polish democracy. The day on which all three laws concerning the tribunal will be adopted will be the last day of Polish democracy. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Of course, until we rebuild this democracy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u187	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u188	We're filing for rejection. And please accept the amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u189	Mr Krzysztof Paszyk will speak on behalf of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u190	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party to present our position on the report of the committee on the draft law on the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. We have heard a lot today from the rapporteur, as well as from the representative of the PIS Parliamentary Club, that the project is implementing the recommendations of experts, Mr Kuchciński, that he is ordering the matter so far contained in many other laws, that it is a way of establishing a framework for judges or active judges or those who have gone to rest, but that is, ladies and gentlemen, hypocrisy, it really smells of hypocrisy. As the young people would say today: you are lying, once again, because these are not really any recommendations, this is not ordering matters in this area, this is another attempt to make the tribunal yours... [[Voice from the room: But specifically.]] ...closely subordinate to the current parliamentary majority, which with the tribunal in its present form apparently - I regret to say - not on the way. [[Voice from the room: Definitely.]] Not on the way. That's weird. It is also surprising that you are unable to look at the internal, systemic consequences that you are causing, and even more importantly, external repercussions, international repercussions, in order to be in subjection to this institution. I would like to hear here today, as the Parliamentary Club of PSL, we would like to hear that, although you respect some ideas, suggestions that have often been made in a wider discussion in this House - we have not seen this once again - and that you respect some suggestions that come to Poland from countries with more established democracy, [[Applause]] who are very concerned about what's going on with us. Because suddenly Poland, which has repeatedly demonstrated its belonging to this Western European cultural circle for the past 27 years with all its consequences, is beginning to take some strange actions... [[Contacts.]] ...which deny it completely by placing us in a circle of countries like Belarus and beyond. [[It's a deal. It's a ……]] Analyzing the provisions of the bill, we see an attempt to limit the freedom of expression of the judges at rest. This, ladies and gentlemen, must raise deep opposition. After all, the knowledge and experience of retired judges is a value that the public should use and use, whether the authors of this law like it or not. On the other hand, this provision is an incredibly bold attempt to introduce a certain censorship towards an independent environment, which has repeatedly criticised your actions on the tribunal. As we read in the draft, the judge of the tribunal is liable disciplinaryly to the tribunal for the violation of the law, the failure of the office of the judge of the tribunal, the violation of the code of ethics of the judge of the tribunal. These are amazing records. The authors of the project refer several times to the Code of Ethics of the Judge of the Constitutional Tribunal, according to which the judges of the Tribunal are to act and for which the violation will be severely punished. [[By who?]] This is, High Izbo, a classic example of buying a cat in a bag because none of us have seen that code. Indeed, the Code of Ethics of the Judge of the Constitutional Tribunal does not yet exist. It's scary to think about what's going to be included in this particular directory. [[The assembly, the judges.]] And for a summary, ladies and gentlemen: What is the status of a judge? The status of the judge was based on the constitutional position of the Constitutional Tribunal. How can we talk about status today? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Judge of the tribunal, since this tribunal really...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u191	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u192	...we've run off with activities that have taken place in the last few weeks? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u193	On behalf of the club... [[There's still a wheel. The club...]] ...a circle of European Democrats, Mr Jacek Protasiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u194	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! Indeed, it has been a few weeks, which Mr Piotrowicz spoke about. There was time to learn more about the project, because it was time to consult experts, not only those, because we also asked those who had not taken part in the debate so far. These are our conclusions. Firstly, it is a frivolous project, Mr Piotrowicz, who is represented by Members. For example, art. 2 (2) 1 of this project plus a number of other provisions, paragraph 1. Two and another, in fact, quote the constitution because they say that the choice of judges will be based on the rules of the Sejm. If the Sejm chooses the judges of the tribunal, then based on what? I'll say something like that. This is an unnecessary record. It's a record that can wake up... These records can make you smile at pity. I do not understand why Mr Piotrowicz, who wants to be considered a serious lawyer, I presume, because from the very beginning he has been giving oratory performances, but also incompetence, he agrees to be a company of such truism. Why write constitutional provisions that are commonly known and logical into a new bill? Mr President, I would suggest that you remove your name from this project, for example, because of the seriousness you want to accept.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u195	Sir, don't yell. We're hearing it right.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u196	Point two. Art. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 states that another judge, a group of judges, may file a notice of disciplinary misconduct by a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. I'm supposed to teach you, sir, I'm not a lawyer? You've heard of that rule: a maiori ad minus? By detail to the general, by a minority to the majority. If one judge can do it, why write that a group of judges can do it? It's logical, it's cliché. It's a cliché. You should be ashamed of yourself by this project. I'd be ashamed. But these are stories that tell you that this project is ridiculous. Unfortunately, this project is also dangerous. This is a dangerous project. Art. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 (3) - a further part of what I had already started to discuss - states that a notification of the disciplinary offence may be filed by the President at the request of the Attorney General. Well, Mr President, once again, I would like to remind you: Article. 173 of the Constitution states that tribunals are not only separate but independent from other authorities. Again. In abortion, you want us...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u197	Mr. President, can you keep your voice down? You scream unnecessarily, we hear perfectly well what you say. [[But don't pay any attention.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u198	You can punish me with a financial penalty, but I won't speak quietly because I can't speak quietly. That's what I'm saying. My mom talks even louder and faster. And so I'm going to say, at an evolutionary stage, we're going in the right direction. My son will probably talk quieter and slower. And I will accept any punishment, any punishment. I'm moving on. In short: in this solution, that the Attorney General becomes, as it were, a control authority over the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, Mr President, you are not only withdrawing us, as I have already said, that your group is doing this in abortion cases until the time before enlightenment. Some say the Middle Ages - probably out of disrespect, so to speak, for the Middle Ages, because they do not understand how beautiful it was. But I'm sure you're retreating us back to the period before Montescius, which the modern civilized world has accepted, accepted and understood. I don't understand why you don't want to accept this. This is weird. This is weird. There must be some doubt about the code of ethics. The judges are, sir - the constitution adopted by the people in a referendum says this - without delay, only subject to the constitution in office, not to any tribunal or code of ethics. Where's that code, anyway? Who's gonna write it? You? Or perhaps, as Mr Niesiołowski said, in the morning President Kaczyński, who, I understand, when he reads his interviews, sees Kant in himself: the starry sky above me, the moral law in me, I am the very good. We really don't want you interfering with what the Constitution has regulated. Finally, as absurd as the fact that he can't have more than 10% action. Why not 20%? I want to tell you one thing: the need to transfer profits to a public purpose is a form of expropriation, and it is possible to expropriate under the Constitution only for fair and fair compensation. Who's gonna pay the judges? Uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, You, sir? President Kaczyński? I would like to say one thing: this is an unserious, dangerous and unacceptable project which mixes, adds powers to the President of the Republic of Poland, adds powers which are not in the Constitution, in the Constitution adopted by the Polish people in a referendum in 1993. That is why we will be against this project, because it is most likely, in our deep conviction, [[♪ The bell ♪]] non-constitutional. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u199	On behalf of the Free and Solidarni Parliamentary Circle, Mr Ireneusz Gains. The order of occurrence is based on the alphabetical order of clubs which have the same number of Members. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u200	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Members' Circle of Free and Solidarni, I present my position on the report by the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft law on the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. As I have already stressed in my speech on 5 October this year, concerning the bill submitted for first reading, Members of the Free and Solidarni Members agree that the position of the judge of the Constitutional Tribunal differs from that of the general courts, administrative courts or the Supreme Court. We believe that it is necessary to define precisely the rights, obligations, service relations and the rules of liability of the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal in the form of a separate law. In particular, this is justified on the eve of the changes to the Court concerning the election of a new President of the Constitutional Tribunal, which, in accordance with the Constitution, the Constitutional Tribunal and the will of the Polish Sejm, should allow three judges who have taken the oath before the President of the Republic of Poland. Why doesn't the President of the Constitutional Tribunal do so? Is there really a legal basis? One of the online portals revealed e-mails to the management of the Constitutional Tribunal from 20 April to 1 June 2015, which clearly indicate that the judges of the Tribunal were fully aware even before the entry into force of the Constitutional Tribunal Act by the PO-PSL coalition, that it is, I quote, a corruption of the state and present, quote the mentality of 'I myself'. In particular, we are talking about an amendment that has contributed to securing seats at the Constitutional Court as candidates for the Civic Platform. The draft law implements the recommendations of the expert group's report on The Constitutional Tribunal appointed by the Marshal of the Sejm. The adoption of this law will stabilise the situation around the tribunal so that it can function without obstacles in full membership. Legislative work on this draft law should be completed before the end of the current term of office of the President of the Tribunal. If, following the entry into force of the contested law, the President of the Tribunal still fails to comply with the rules of law, he shall be submitted of his own motion in accordance with disciplinary provisions. I raise this fact, because the judge of the Constitutional Court, and even more so his President, according to what the judges themselves said at the Extraordinary Congress of Polish Judges, that they are, I quote, a completely extraordinary caste of people and the salt of this land, should set an example in the ethical attitude and compliance with the law. If the laws do not want to be observed, they should suffer the consequences. It welcomes the fact that the draft submitted by the Commission took into account the comments I made in my speech on 5 October this year. Firstly, I argued that, given the conclusion from a smaller to a larger one, it seems pointless to mention as a separate entity entitled to notify the judge of the infringement of a group of judges, since that right has been granted to each judge individually. This comment has been taken into account by the committee, so that I would like to inform the honourable Member, my previous speaker, that he has clearly failed to take note of the work of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, as this change has been introduced by the committee in the draft law. Secondly, I pointed out that in the article. Article 33 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 there has been a repetition of the wording of the Article. Article 29 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, except for the statement, I quote, and must maintain the dignity of the judge of the tribunal at rest. Both regulations were basically no different. This comment was also taken into account by the committee in its amendments to the draft law. In addition, the way in which the provisions were laid down in the chapter on retired judges, which was quite chaotic in the version submitted for first reading, was improved. On the other hand, the minority proposals submitted by the members of the Civic Platform committee should be assessed negatively. Unfortunately, these amendments were clearly political, not substantive, aimed at torpedoing the law by deleting its essential provisions and thus preventing its correct application. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Members of the Free and Solidarnia Circle will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u201	Thank you very much. [[Mr. Marshal, I'd like to say my name has been mentioned many times here.]] Many times, indeed, but as rapporteur he will have at the end... [[No, the applicant.]] No, you're not the rapporteur. There you go, correction mode, two minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u202	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Indeed, I expected the power of argument from this speaker, not the power of decibels, but this shows powerlessness and at the same time points out that the Member does not know the legal act he is talking about. Unless the specialty of an MP is to invent unreal states to resent them. Mr President, nowhere in the report presented by the committee will you find a group of Members, and you have been thundering so hard from this stand that it is illogical that you compromise and so on. I suggest you read carefully before you start criticizing something. You've been paying attention, and you've been reading my name at this point, that it's embarrassing that the project contains a repetition of some constitutional regulations... [[It's not serious. It's not incompetent, it's ridiculous.]] It's not serious, okay, I'm not gonna argue about the term, but you've devoted a lot of time to it. [[Makes a difference.]] I would like to remind you that when, in the previous law, we applied the principles of legislative technology and removed from the law those provisions which are in the Constitution, what did it turn out to be? The Venice Commission has stated that it is regrettable that the provisions relating to the irreparability of the judge have been removed from the bill, that it is regrettable that the provisions of the 9-year term of office have been removed. So, Mr President, I agree with you that this should not be in the bill, but it is because this is what the Venice Commission wanted. Everyone else who does not know the Polish legal system, does not know the Constitution, if it was not included, would argue that we have removed the indeterminateness of the judge and the 9-year term. And only for these reasons That's where it came from. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're saying the Attorney General...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u203	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u204	...can alert you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u205	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u206	...only about the rewind of the judge...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u207	Thank you very much, sir. Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u208	...and the decision belongs to the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u209	Thank you very much. 16 ladies and gentlemen joined the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. [[I'd like to sign up.]] I'm setting a question time for one minute. [[One and a half minutes.]] Mr Szczerba, the Civic Platform Club, is the first to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u210	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You can sum up: the mountain gave birth to a mouse. The mountain gave birth to a mouse, but for the sixth time, an anti-constitutional mouse, an unconstitutional mouse. This law on the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal concerns judges of the Tribunal, but also concerns judges of the tribunal at rest. You would like to see the judges resting like those monkeys in the Japanese proverb: I can't see, I can't hear, I can't say. But I would like to remind you that, in Western culture, the image of these three characters covering their ears, lips and eyes is interpreted as a silent consent to evil by turning their eyes away from it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This bill is an attempt to gag Professor Zoll... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u211	Thank you very much. You haven't been able to ask a question. [[You didn't have to tell stories to tell.]] [[But he's got his tongue tangled.]] Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u212	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There is no reasonable justification for introducing disciplinary liability of a retired judge to the extent provided for in Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 project. It should be pointed out that this provision refers to the sphere of the performance of the duties of judge of the Tribunal, a function which the retired judge does not perform at all. Thus, the retired judge will not be able to break the law or behave unethically in relation to his function, and this is precisely the case with the regulation contained in the article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 identical in its wording with Article. Paragraph 24 1 the draft relating to the judge of the tribunal. Is the fact that the judge of the tribunal at rest does not act as a judge, and in particular does not rule, a justification for limiting the disciplinary liability of the judge of the tribunal at rest to preserve the failing dignity of the judge's office? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u213	The question is asked by Mrs Marta Golbik, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u214	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 30 of the project is referred to the appropriate application in disciplinary matters of the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal of the provisions of the Law on the System of General Courts. Does such a solution agree with the specifics of the Constitutional Tribunal? Is there a risk that disciplinary proceedings before the judges of the Tribunal will be affected by the executive authority under the jurisdiction of the tribunal? The provisions of the Law on the System of General Courts on disciplinary action against general court judges confer several essential powers on the Minister of Justice. Maybe he did. apply for the reopening of disciplinary proceedings, may order an immediate interruption of the duties of a judge, e.g. where, on account of the nature of the act carried out by the judge, the seriousness of the court or the essential interests of the service require him to be removed immediately from the performance of his duties. During the work in committee, neither the applicant nor the representatives of the Legislative Office were able to [[♪ The bell ♪]] expressly state that this provision will not have...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u215	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u216	...applications in the case of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u217	The question is asked by Mr Grzegorz Furgo, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u218	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In its judgment of 3 December 2016, the Constitutional Tribunal made clear that the question of determining the rules for the selection of a Judge of the Constitutional Tribunal had a dimension beyond the exclusive sphere of the Sejm's legal matter. It is up to the legislator to regulate the question of the date of application of the Tribunal's candidacy by law in such a way as to guarantee the protection of the constitutional term of the Tribunal's Judge, the continued fulfilment of the tasks of the Constitutional Court, as well as the efficiency, transparency and integrity of the entire electoral process. I have a question: Why, then, cannot the rules governing the selection of judges of the Tribunal be governed solely by the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u219	The question is asked by Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u220	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This Act is intended to amend disciplinary proceedings. The judge would be liable for violation of the Code of Ethics of the Judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. But this one doesn't exist yet. The adoption of this code is a whole new idea, which aims primarily at gagging the mouth of retired judges who are critical of the actions and policies of the governing option. It wasn't even invented in the Polish People's Republic. We still don't know who would approve this code. [[General Assembly.]] Neither the Law on the System of Universal Courts nor the Law on the Supreme Court or the NSA has an obligation to adopt an ethical code. They simply include the duties of a judge and regulated disciplinary action. Therefore, I ask you to answer: Why should a separate ethical code be established for 15 judges of the Tribunal? [[♪ The bell ♪]] What other forms of repression will the PiS invent against the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u221	Thank you very much, Member. The question is asked by Elizabeth Stępień, the Modern Club. You don't have an MP? Therefore, Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u222	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! What is the real purpose of introducing a provision obliging the judge to present a health certificate before the age of 70? Otherwise, the judge shall retire despite his current term of office. Is this not contrary to the constitution whereby the judge of the Tribunal is elected for his term of office without any age restrictions? And second question. Which means the entry in the article. 33, that the judge of the Constitutional Tribunal at rest cannot carry out public activities incompatible with the principles of the independence of the courts and the independence of the judges? It is possible to use any interpretation here. This provision is very generally outlined and raises serious doubts. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u223	The question is asked by Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u224	Dear Marshal, Continuing with my previous speaker, Mrs Czernow, I would like to ask a question to the rapporteur - the rapporteur, who described one of the Members so strongly. Well, if you're giving a bullshit project, you have to react to it. And I wanted to ask you if you don't think - because you represent the committee - that you are restricting the right of the judge at rest to carry out any activity. You are a benefactor for one class at the university, that you can conduct such activities, and that you deprive all civil rights of it. And it cannot be said that someone who is a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal, his freedom as a citizen can be limited. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr Piotrowicz, no one can ever be deprived of liberty or civil rights. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u225	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Norbert Obricki, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u226	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Why the idea of adopting the Code of Ethical Judge of the Constitutional Tribunal at rest? Don't applicants know that judges are only subject to the Constitution? The bill, as has already been noted, duplicates the provisions of the Constitution. Is this an exemplification of the principle of three divisions of power in a state according to law and justice? In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 you assume that the judge of the Constitutional Tribunal is liable disciplinaryly for violating the code of ethics of the judge or other unethical conduct. Does this mean that you assume a priori that the Code of Ethics will be written so carelessly and imprecisely that it will not regulate this matter sufficiently? Or do you leave out the wording of other unethical behaviors of any interpretation of the actions of the judges at rest to prevent them from any criticism of your law? In that case, do you create the code just to hide these intentions?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u227	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Robert Kropiwnicki, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u228	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, perhaps it is worth recalling that art. The 10th Constitution clearly states that the Polish Republic's system is based on the division and balance of legislative power, executive power and judicial authority. Art. 26 of the proposed proposal infringes this principle because it creates the possibility of interfering with the executive authority, i.e. the Attorney General and the President, in relations with the Constitutional Court and the possibility of disciplinary action against each judge by the Attorney General and the President. Of course, you say that the decision will be taken by the tribunal. But it is very dangerous to start disciplinary proceedings, because naturally it will already be around this judge causing some confusion. See that the Attorney General is often a party to the proceedings. And now the party will prosecute the judge if she doesn't like the sentence. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is a violation of the three divisions of power, and that is why I think it is a very bad rule. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u229	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Waldemar Buda, the Law and Justice Club. [[Will Mr Buda have a question for the rapporteur?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u230	No, to the applicant. I have a question for the Member of the applicant. Is it true that the Law on the Supreme Court, which was introduced in 2002, is identical in Article. 30 indicating that, when the Supreme Court judge reaches his 70th birthday, he is obliged to submit a certificate so that he can continue his office? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u231	The question is asked by Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u232	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The judges are one of the groups that are protected by immunity - the difference is that the judges are protected by this immunity for life. The retired judge is also protected by immunity, not only by the formal but also by the material, so that if all, say, statements or any action were allowed, on the other hand, this makes it difficult for any claims to be made in view of the need to waive immunity. My question to the applicants: Would it not be difficult if this group of retired judges had more rights because they were protected by immunity? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Just in the process...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u233	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u234	...your rights by others? Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u235	The question is asked by Mr Michał Stasiński, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u236	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Art. 33 of the project sets out the obligations and prohibitions to be observed by the judge of the resting tribunal, including inter alia. the prohibition of additional employment for retired judges of the Tribunal, as in the case of judges of the Tribunal. Is the lack of differentiation between the various prohibitions and obligations, depending on whether they concern the judges of the tribunal or the judges of the tribunal at rest, correct in this situation? It seems that this provision does not find any substantive justification, it has already been mentioned in previous questions. I would like to draw attention to one very important thing. This kind of provision makes lawyers, former judges of the tribunal, extremely experienced people both in terms of theoretical knowledge and practice of law, excluded from the possibility of operating in international judicial institutions, and this is extremely important for us. I would like to remind you that we want to have a Polish representative in the arbitration court on the CETA agreement. And these are the people best prepared for it. Thank you very much. [[The bell, the applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u237	The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u238	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft does not provide for disciplinary liability of the judge before taking office. I wanted to ask the applicants why such an obvious provision was not provided for. After all, such a regulation, ladies and gentlemen, should be included in the Constitutional Court Act. Hard to imagine is a situation in which the judge of the Tribunal would not be liable for his previous proceedings which derogated the dignity of the judge and which casts doubts on the integrity of the character of the judge concerned. Ladies and gentlemen! The need for the legislator to ensure the validity of the Constitutional Tribunal requires that there is a legal possibility of disciplinary action against a judge who, prior to the choice of the judge of the Tribunal, has committed unworthy conduct. The question should therefore be raised as to whether the failure to introduce a provision in the draft setting out the disciplinary responsibility of the judge for the proceedings [[♪ The bell ♪]] Before taking up his post, he has a connection...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u239	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u240	...with any legal problems...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u241	The question is asked by Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u242	...some nominates of the Law and Justice to serve as judge of the tribunal. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u243	You don't have an MP? You're an MP.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u244	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! The president will tell, the party will choose. We know that's the way you pick representatives at the PiS. As you can see, in the same way, they would also like to do so at the Constitutional Court. I have no doubt that all this law serves one - to elect a new President of the Tribunal in accordance with the will of the Law and Justice. And I wanted to ask one question: why write such a long bill at all if you could create a project that contained one: the name of the future president of the Constitutional Tribunal? Why put so much effort, why put so many records that have already been declared unconstitutional once, at a time when it is really about one thing - about identifying your candidate? I would really like to ask the applicant the question: Why all the effort? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u245	The question is asked by Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u246	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The Act on the Status of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal is a negative example of an incident law, a law that is created for a specific situation, not a permanent solution that could serve us for years. My question concerns a very specific question, Art. 31, which contains age restrictions for judges. I must say that these limitations are clear to me, understandable to me, and there is no doubt that the regulation which provides for the need for testing by a judge who is 70 years old. a year of age, it is not, for everyone, clear, in accordance with the article. Paragraph 194. 1 of the Constitution, since this provision of the basic law clearly refers to a continuous 9-year-old [[♪ The bell ♪]] The term of office...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u247	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u248	...the judge of the tribunal. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u249	...Modern Club. [[Oh, that's gonna be a quote.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u250	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Alexis de Tocqueville warned us that democratic governments could harm freedom. When democracies want to impose the will of the majority on the general public, they can repress and silence the voices of enemies of conformism. Who has the right to suspend the law in the country? When does hegemon become a sovereign? The Constitutional Tribunal is becoming an empty form, a democratic impostor. [[Applause]] [[Something fantastic.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u251	Thank you very much. Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz, the applicant's representative, will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u252	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, there were the same questions that were already in the first reading. The same questions have been raised several times during committee work. The same questions come out today. You can see that the answers are incomprehensible to those who ask. But maybe it would be worth reading the bill, because perhaps personal reading would allow us to understand better than when a person chooses to receive words falling from the platform. Mr Szczerba, in fact, if he hadn't started with fairy tales, maybe he would have said something, and that's how he ended it with generals and slogans. [[Honest.]] Some Members were wondering why some restrictions are being imposed on the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal at rest. For a simple reason: judges retain the title, retain the privileges, retain the powers, continue to have the title of judge of the Constitutional Tribunal at rest, and thus work on the image of the Constitutional Tribunal. Hence, the legislator has the right to expect the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal to behave in such a way as to build the prestige of the Constitutional Tribunal and not weaken it. Therefore, if you guarantee a high salary, because 75% the current salary of a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal, if he is given immunity, is not so much that it is required, in short, that such a judge behaves decently. If someone really wants to practice politics, he wants to speak, there is nothing to prevent him from doing so. But you can't eat an apple and have an apple. Therefore, if he wants to be a politician, nothing prevents him from resigning as a retired judge. I hear generalities about mouth gagging. Nobody gags, no one leaves a choice: you want to speak publicly, you want to practice politics, you want to give up the status of judge. It's normal, isn't it? That's the consequence of what's going on with the active judge. If she doesn't like it, she doesn't have to be a judge. After all, the Constitutional Tribunal has said on this subject, I quoted these judgments at first reading. These matters cannot be dealt with in terms of restrictions on civil rights and freedoms, because there is a choice. Everyone, after choosing a specific function, must consider that this function involves certain restrictions on civil rights and freedoms. But if he decides, it means he's okay with some kind of restriction. After all, Members are also restricted in various ways, each depending on the laws. She asked why the provisions of the Law on the System of General Courts should apply to disciplinary proceedings in the case of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. In many solutions, many laws adopt a similar solution in return. It can be said that this law comprehensively regulates disciplinary proceedings. Nevertheless, if there are no rules and life is rich, then the Code of Criminal Procedure and the arrangements adopted in the Law on the System of Universal Courts should be used. It is perfectly normal that in such cases the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure apply. They also apply to common court judges, because during the hearing of a witness before a disciplinary court, the rules concerning the hearing of a witness, which are detailed in the Code of Criminal Procedure, are used. Anyone who's come across it isn't surprised. One of the Members argued that the choice of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal must be laid down in a law rather than in a rule of law. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the election of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal is a sovereign and autonomous decision of the Sejm. The Sejm is a separate authority and therefore has its own internal regulation. This regulation is the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. Rules of Procedure of the Sejm are an important legal act. I don't know why anyone thinks it's less important than the bill. After all, the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm is a legal act explicitly mentioned in the Constitution. Since the Rules of Procedure define the procedure of the Sejm, in accordance with the opinions of the constitutionalists who are attached to the draft, it is precisely for the selection of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal to define the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm as one basic act governing this matter. The code of ethics arouses emotions, they say it's a gag for the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, that it's repression. Ladies and gentlemen, the Code of Ethics, I repeat for one time, will be adopted by the General Assembly of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. It is the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal who will determine what is right for the judge of the tribunal and what is not right for the judge to behave. This is the sovereign decision of the Constitutional Court, specifically the General Assembly of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. In this case, I refer to the bill that will be presented to the High House tomorrow. That's where it's settled. The Code of Ethics will be drawn up and adopted on the basis of a resolution of the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. Similar ethical codes apply in many professions involving public trust, and this should not surprise anyone. The question is, what is the purpose of the medical certificate? Like in any case, a healthy person doesn't fall behind a desk, he can do his job. Somehow, no employee gets upset that the employer periodically directs him to periodic examinations. Does this mean that my employer wants to say my job relationship? No, it's not. One can look at it in such a way that it is a kind of concern for an employee. Go, check yourself out, get a medical certificate that you can do your job. For example, many workers are happy with this because they would never get to see a doctor because they always put off their health check. In this case, it is a very important step: being a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. You say, and if there's a medical certificate, not what the judge would have wanted, there could be an interruption of the term of office. I would like to say that there are other biological factors that do not ask anyone for their opinion and their term of office is interrupted. [[Out of concern for the judges.]] Some are appalled by art. 33, which states that a judge may not conduct public activities. I was actually talking about it. He can drive, but then he has to quit. from the status of judge. I've already talked about restricting the rights of a retired judge. He is still a judge, enjoying privileges, and it is understandable that there are not only privileges but also limitations. One of your fellow Members refers to the article. The 10th Constitution, which refers to the division of authorities and the balance of those authorities, at the same time refers to the article. 26 the bill that this article has shaken this balance, for, behold, the judge of the tribunal will be able to report that one of the judges of the tribunal has committed an offence. In the view of the Member, this is a imbalance, and the imbalance is that the President will inform the President of the Constitutional Tribunal that one of the judges has committed an offence. Ladies and gentlemen! What is the principle of balance? It's not just an empty record in the Constitution. In order for this balance to function, there must be instruments that implement this balance. The misunderstanding is that you want to create a superpower. There is a division of authorities, there is a balance between the authorities you are talking about, but over all authorities, because there is one vote out of all speeches, there is a Constitutional Tribunal, there are judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, and it is worth it to anyone who wishes to introduce any restrictions, who would like to regulate anything with regard to the tribunal. You want to bring about such a situation that the Constitutional Tribunal should decide on what will be the organisation of the tribunal, what will be the procedure before the tribunal. The State has implemented this principle, which is why the Constitutional Tribunal Act, in agreement with you, wrote the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. This isn't the way. Where's the government's balance? Where's the division of the authorities? [[Where's the health care?]] Someone else is passing laws, and somebody else is implementing those laws. The Constitutional Tribunal is an independent institution, judges are not bound by judgment, but the organisation of this tribunal under the Constitution is to determine the law, i.e. the legislative authority. Rules of procedure before the tribunal are to be determined by the legislative authority, the Sejm. Ladies and gentlemen, we must be consistent. Divide the authorities and balance the authorities. This is what specific legal instruments are used for. The whole misunderstanding is coming from different concepts. We take the constitutional record about the division of authorities and the balance of authorities seriously. There's a misunderstanding because you want to create a super-judice, and that's not what you're going to do. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u253	Thank you very much. Mr Waldemar Buda will now speak as rapporteur for the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u254	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Thank you so much for this lively discussion. Most of the questions were answered by the applicant's representative. I will merely point out once again that most of these allegations were based on previous beliefs, not on the actual content of what we developed at the committee meeting. Some of the comments were submitted to the original project, to solutions that no longer exist today in the text of this project, which is an annex to the report. Some of the allegations concern, for example, solutions which are already in the various laws in force and which have been used, being copied from other laws. So, once again, I ask that the Sejm adopt the law in accordance with the attached report and reject the amendments that are the conclusions of the minority. Thank you. [[You got it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u255	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 8 on the agenda: Report from the Health Committee on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded health care and certain other laws (Prints No. 890 and 960). I ask Mr Tadeusz Dziuba to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u256	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The main objective of the revision of the Law on public-funded healthcare provision, as well as the revision of other laws, was and is to restore funding from the state budget of vaccines to carry out compulsory preventive vaccinations. Therefore, the National Health Fund's commitment to finance the purchase of those vaccines was to be waived on 1 January 2017. This will free up the funds at the disposal of the national fund with the prospect of their intended use for health services. In particular, this applies to the appropriations already foreseen in the 2017 budget of the NFZ. This change is also part of the implementation of the State's responsibility for health policy, i.e. the protection of public health. In the course of the committee's work, amendments to the Pharmaceutical Law Act, which were intended to enable the acquisition by new operators of vaccines to carry out the recommended preventive vaccinations, were discontinued. Let's add right away that they gave up the right thing to do. The marketing of vaccines should be subject to appropriate regulation, and in the present case the proposed rules did not incorporate a new category of vaccine operators into the current regime. The right idea must therefore look forward to a more precise solution, thus a solution separate from this amendment. This resignation was the biggest change made to the government project. For the sake of order, it is also acceptable to say that the amendment contained in prints 890 and 960, although it does not abolish the obligation to confirm the right to benefits, provides that the National Health Fund will not investigate the costs of basic healthcare benefits if there are problems with confirming the right to benefits. This does not apply to the costs incurred for the purchase of medicines, special purpose foodstuffs and medical devices. These costs will be incurred by the fund on the basis of existing rules. As a consequence, the draft contains provisions for the death of the administrative decisions in question and for the death of enforcement proceedings relating to those entitlements. This draft introduces provisions allowing for the retroactive notification to health insurance, although only within certain deadlines, it also provides for the release of providers from the obligation to transmit data from waiting lists to the health information system. These issues were discussed in detail at first reading and do not require a broader discussion here. The Health Committee requests the adoption of a draft law in print No 960. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u257	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that the discussion on this item would be held on behalf of clubs and circles for five minutes. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Barbara Dziuk will be the first to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u258	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded health care and certain other laws primarily restores the existing rules for the financing of vaccines to carry out compulsory preventive vaccinations from the State budget. In the bill submitted in the article. 3 the amendments proposed in the Act of 24 July 2015 amending the Law on the provision of public-funded health care and the Act on the prevention and control of infectious infections and diseases in humans, which consisted in the obligation of the National Health Fund of 1 January 2017 to finance the purchase of vaccines to carry out compulsory preventive vaccinations for insured persons. The reason for returning to the rules on funding from the State budget for the purchase of vaccines under the compulsory preventive vaccination programme is the restoration of the State's responsibility for health policies, including in particular preventive measures. Protection vaccinations shall form part of that activity carried out by the State in accordance with Article. 68 constitutions and serve to protect public health. The draft law also provides for the waiver of claims by the NFZ for benefits granted under the POZ. In addition, the wording of the Article has been modified. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 17 Law of 27 August 2004 on public-funded healthcare provision. The proposed amendment aims to enable the person who used the document to establish the right to healthcare services to be invoked. The aim of the project is also to provide the possibility to report back to health insurance. The project also provides for exemptions from the obligation for providers to submit data on waiting lists to the health information system. The draft proposed to repeal the provision of the Article. Article 23a (2) (a) (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 2 of the Law of 27 August 2004 on public-funded healthcare provision, which required providers to transmit data on waiting lists to the health information system referred to in the Act of 28 April 2011 on the health information system. This is due to a change in the concept of the implementation of the Electronic Collection Platform, Analysis and sharing of Digital Resources about Medical Events, so-called. P1 and, consequently, adjustments to the start-up of individual services on this platform. The designer considers it necessary to exempt providers from the obligation to submit data on waiting lists to the health information system. This obligation will only be possible if all services, in particular the electronic referral, are made available within the framework of the above-mentioned platform. Consequently, the wording of the authorisation to issue a regulation by the Minister responsible for Health should also be amended. The Law and Justice have a positive opinion on the above-mentioned law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u259	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform will address Mrs Beat Małecka-Libera.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u260	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the opinion of the Civic Platform on the proposed amendment, print No 890, and the report of the Health Committee, print No 960, on the amendment of the Law on healthcare provision. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! The proposed amendment is absolutely a contradiction of everything that the Minister said about his strategies and his proposals for health reforms. There were many words there that we would reform it in an evolutionary manner. An example of this law is proof that this is how we do not act. It's turned upside down, whether it's right on the other side or on the other side. What is the point of this amendment? Well, a year ago, after a deep analysis, a change was made. A new law has emerged, under which funding for preventive vaccination has entered the budget of the National Health Fund. This was driven by two very important, important factors. Firstly, it is known that the National Health Fund has a much larger budget, more than 75 billion, so it is much easier to look for various types of funding there, including preventive vaccinations, than in the modest budget of the Minister of Health, especially since it is clear what will have to be abandoned in the budget of the Ministry of Health. The second reason, equally important, is also that the National Health Fund in its health benefits, which it purchases from healthcare providers, also leads to prevention. And that was a very important part of our policy and our health policy. What, on the other hand, do you say in the argument set out in the explanatory memorandum, why does it make this change, and why does it withdraw the funding to the budget? It says that it is justified to return to the budget because of the responsibility of the state for health policy. So I have, Minister, the question: Isn't the National Health Fund responsible for it, doesn't it implement health policy and doesn't it also fall under the responsibility of the state? It's the Minister who oversees the National Health Fund. Okay, ladies and gentlemen, this project goes to committee, and what does it turn out to be? That another element, in addition to changing funding, is the possibility for family doctors to sell vaccines. And everything would be fine, except for one very important detail, that this sale is to take place without the supervision of the chief pharmaceutical inspector. It is a government project, Minister, I do not believe that it has undergone the whole legislative process, the whole path of consultation, inter-ministerial arrangements and no one has paid attention to such an important element. So the basic question is: Why did this happen? Why did such a record appear in this original project? Of course, at the committee meeting, thanks to the Members of the Civic Platform, this was caught and immediately removed by the parliamentary amendment. But this is one of the many elements that raised our concerns, because we asked many other questions: How is this sale to take place? Who and where are you gonna buy those meds? What's the margin? These questions have not been answered. As there are many questions and there are many doubts, we are not just trying to change the direction you are proposing, but to prepare the project itself. We believe that this direction of change is wrong, even harmful. This is why the Platform will vote against this proposal. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u261	Thank you. On behalf of the Kukiz club15 - Mr Paweł Skutecki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u262	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This law, as in the lens, shows how Minister Konstanty Radziwiłł worked. Theoretically assumes a purely technical transfer from patient and state budget point of view of funding vaccines from the NFZ to the Ministry, and the most interesting is, of course, a little deeper. In the bill, Minister Radziwiłł proposed that the vaccine market in Poland, worth almost PLN 1 billion, should be laid down by family doctors. They were to have a genuine monopoly on the sale of vaccines to patients, and without any pharmaceutical supervision. The applicants were ashamed to withdraw from this record, but the disgust remained, doubts as to the actual intentions of the law as well. There was also a huge doubt raised in the opinion of the Supreme Court regarding the changes to the article. 50 Law on public-funded healthcare provision. The first President of the Supreme Court, Professor Małgorzata Gersdorf, clearly states that in this way the universal free right to basic healthcare was introduced. Minister, do you really have to hide this revolution somewhere between the lines? Let's hear it. The Minister goes further and in the bill introduces abolition, reduces all costs of basic medical services, enforcement proceedings, reprimand costs. That's a great idea. Only the Minister has forgotten that the law should not act backwards. Following the entry into force of this law, the NF should raise the violation of the Constitution - at least the principles of protection of confidence in the State and its rights, legal security and legal certainty, the protection of interests in progress, the protection of acquired rights. But not even those mistakes hurt me the most. The thing that hurts me the most is that when we amend the vaccine bill, we don't talk about the most important issues. The Minister wants to change the deadline for announcing the mandatory vaccination calendar from March to October. But why do we continue to maintain this cliché of lawmaking? The origins of the law according to the Constitution are laws, resolutions, regulations, but not communications of the chief health inspector in Poland. Why, then, are parents who refuse vaccination then punished financially on the basis of a document that is not a source of law in Poland? Going further, why do we still maintain in Poland this relic of communism, what is the obligation of vaccination? In the vast majority of European countries, there is no such obligation and we do not notice an epidemic there. Are the Poles, according to the Minister, less prudent than the English, Lithuanians, Germans, Danes? In these countries, vaccines are recommended and funded by the state, but are not mandatory. Did the Minister, or did this government never care why the map of mandatory preventive vaccinations is consistent with the map of corruption in Europe? Why do we vaccinate children in the first day of life? This is a European phenomenon, which is only done in four countries in Europe: Poland, Portugal, Croatia and Bulgaria. Nowhere else. Specialists agree that the optimal age for vaccination is 3 months, not the first day. Parents have the right to ask, they have the right to be afraid, and they have the right to have a fair answer to these questions. Minister, on behalf of Polish children and their parents, I ask you to have a serious discussion about an anachronistic preventive vaccination system among doctors, parents and specialists - also, and perhaps above all, those specialists who are not financed simultaneously by pharmaceutical companies. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! There's a beautiful saying: the mind is like a parachute - to work, it has to be open. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u263	Thank you. On behalf of the Club, Mr Marek Ruciński. There's no envoy. On behalf of the PSL Club, Mr Kazimierz Kotowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u264	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Representing the club of the Polish People's Party, I have the opportunity to present an opinion on the bill that is being examined. As my previous speakers said, the proposed legislation, which was planned, analysed and presented, is the main part and, above all, changes the way these measures are financed. We have not yet started financing the system adopted by the 2015 Act, and we are already making such efforts - and if this goes in this direction that mathematics is a strict science, it will probably end with the success of the government - we are abandoning these principles and we are back to financing vaccination, if I may say so, preventive from the state budget. Minister, why? Can you really, after careful analysis, say today, tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, that these records that have been adopted are bad, do not promote the fulfilment of tasks and expectations, and will not help the budget of the state to find the resources to be used by the National Health Fund to achieve these objectives? Why do we have to... Because I believe that the Minister will try to make sure that these appropriations are specified in the budget of the State for next year. We need to look for money, which is not enough anyway, because many tasks - this can be seen in the draft budget - will be financially cut off, many tasks have theoretical funding, for many tasks simply lack funds. If we're talking about fulfilling electoral or pre-election promises, then I think it was possible to give up these grafts - in quotes, I'm going to say yes - these actions. Unless there are other indications that relate to the areas of activity of certain forces and lobby. In addition, the proposed regulations on abolition, withdrawal from execution, necessary costs and benefits become unclear and give a lot to think about. After all, we expect - the Minister has repeatedly stressed - that the government, the Minister as Head of the Ministry, will present without undue delay a clear, legible, crystalline plan for the operation of the Ministry. So why put in half-words, e.g. take care of free medical, health or preventive care of particular groups of the population or those we want to secure? If we want to secure it, it's a clear and indisputable matter. Prevention is very important and should be seen and applied, because it is easier to prevent than to cure, and it is certainly not me who invented it or many of us who are in this room. But we can't agree to keep experimenting. If the Minister believes - I am going back to what I have already said - that these assumptions and the basis of the bill adopted last year are wrong, we expect the Minister to make this clear, clear and clear. Minister, why tear it down and build it again? Or maybe, like in local governments, criticize what needs to be criticized, but catch what is good, and on that basis, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Build new ones? It'll be cheaper and we'll keep going. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u265	Mr Marek Ruciński will now take the floor on behalf of the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u266	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present my position on the Government's draft law amending the law on public-funded health care services, print No. 890. At last week's Health Committee meeting after more than an hour of debate, the government agreed to delete the entire Article. 2 and Article 2 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 1). 8 draft law, de facto turning its own government project upside down and taking the sense of the whole amendment. I would like to remind you that one of the three pillars of the planned change, as the Deputy Minister of Health has said, was to create the possibility of retailing vaccines to primary health care doctors, which has consequently drawn this turnover from the supervisory powers of the chief pharmaceutical inspector. The question is: How could it have been on a government level, working on a bill for more than six months, to create such a bullshit? I would like to remind you that, in accordance with the rules in force, the marketing of medicinal products may take the form of retail trade or wholesale trade, and that the placing on the market of the medicinal product does not exclude the obligation to obtain authorisation for the marketing of medicinal products in accordance with the procedures provided for in the Act. This turnover is carried out in public pharmacies, pharmacies and non-pharmacies. So where's the doctor's office? Did all these laws just happen by accident? After all, in the case of vaccines, hundreds of millions of zlotys are involved, and exactly, as the Minister of Health stated in yesterday's communication, a total of over 140 million zlotys. The fact that you have organised an invitation to tender for vaccines, without having yet secured money for this purpose, remains without comment. [[Financial discipline.]] We will hear that during the committee meeting you were convinced that these regulations would be removed, but once again I ask: How can you come up with such ideas by working on the project since April? To conclude: How do you want to convince Members today that this project makes any sense Already in this shape? I am convinced that you have clearly disqualified him as a result of your incompetence. The Modern Posel Club will, of course, vote against the project included in print no. 890. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u267	Ms Małgorzata Zwierzan will now speak on behalf of the Free and Solidarni Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u268	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position towards the Government's draft law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. The main objective of the project is to restore funding for vaccines to carry out compulsory preventive vaccinations from the state budget. Through the changes made, the state will again take responsibility for health policy, where preventive action is one of the most important places. In the justification of the projectors we can read that protective vaccinations are part of the activity carried out by the State in accordance with Article. 68 constitutions and serve to protect public health. There is no need for a better justification for the validity of this change than the implementation of the constitutional rights of Poles. The bill is intended to ensure that any person who benefits from primary healthcare benefits does not bear the costs of providing health care even if there are difficulties in confirming his/her right to healthcare. I agree with the projectors that this will eliminate situations in which the patient has not benefited from benefits for fear of costs. Often, avoiding the use of aid has generated additional costs for the health care system, as specialist treatment has already been needed. An important change also concerns the non-punishment of those citizens who, although fulfilling the requirements of being insured, have failed to comply with the obligation to apply for insurance. In my view, the solution to the withdrawal of the fund's investigation of the costs of benefits in the event of problems with confirmation of the right to benefits is logical and appropriate. In the Health Committee, the discussion around the law was very turbulent and significant changes were already made to the original draft at first reading. I hope that the bill will take the right shape during the further procession. The Free and Solidarni Circle asks for further proceedings of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u269	Thank you. Five ladies and gentlemen joined the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting time for a question for one minute. Ms Beata Małecka-Libera, the Civic Platform Club, asks the first question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u270	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'd like to ask you again about the issues I've already asked. Unfortunately, I didn't get an answer on the committee. Therefore, I repeat these questions. I wanted to ask what would be the issue of family doctors selling vaccines, what would be the margin, and where they would be able to buy these vaccines, or in pharmacies, in wholesalers, or maybe directly from the manufacturer. That's my first question. On the other hand, the second question concerns access to health services. I am returning here to the bill that we are still talking about today about the availability of health benefits for all insured persons in primary health care. The question is who will bear the costs if they are provided both in hospitals and in high-specialized - in-depth diagnostics. Whose side will the cost remain on, and who will possibly cover these costs when it comes to the hospital? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u271	Thank you. The question is asked by Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u272	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Sejm of the previous term of office adopted new rules under which the financing of preventive vaccination was to take over from January 2017. National Health Fund. However, the priority was the general vaccination against pneumococcal infants. In May of this year, the Ministry of Health promised that it would guarantee such free protection from pneumococci for all children. Now the government is pulling out of those promises because there's no money left. Minister, the resort is in possession of calculations of the savings resulting from the introduction of pneumococcal vaccination. It takes PLN 170 million to pay for these vaccines, and treatment savings are estimated at PLN 230 million. Minister, there is money for the created Polish National Foundation of PLN 100 million a year, there are millions [[♪ The bell ♪]] for the Smolensk commission and the extension of its work, 3 billion PLN will go to the company annually...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u273	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u274	... The waters of Poland, there is money for Fr Tadeusz Rydzyk, and you have no money...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u275	The question is asked by Mrs Rzczurek-Żelazko, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u276	...for the children? What do you mean? [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Is this the good change? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u277	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This law is, of course, very expected, and in many areas it regulates the issue of preventive vaccination. As they are important, we have heard many times from this tribune. They guarantee prevention towards many infectious diseases, guarantee the health of future generations. Investment in protective vaccinations is very important and necessary. Ladies and gentlemen, this project provides, as I said, for the orderly management of the preventive vaccination system. It is very good that regulations have been created that make the way these vaccines are vaccinated and cleared unambiguously defined in this law. We also know very well that there have also been many situations with regard to supplementary vaccinations that raised concerns. Many times the parents bought the vaccine themselves in pharmacies, brought it to the doctor, it was not known how they were stored when they were bought, and it gave rise to reasonable suspicions that [[♪ The bell ♪]] complications may occur following these vaccinations.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u278	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u279	This issue is settled in this bill. I have a question for the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u280	The question is asked by Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u281	In view of the fact that these vaccinations will be financed from the state budget, how will these funds be transferred to the doctor of the POZ? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u282	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u283	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Protective vaccinations for children in recent years have caused a lot of controversy. Some parents don't vaccinate children, which isn't a secret. Do you know how many children in Poland are not vaccinated despite such a duty? Why, despite these problems, is the Minister making changes that will make the current difficult situation worse with regard to the prevalence of vaccination? This amendment has negative consequences. Not much, it poses a risk to the safety of vaccination. What is the point of making such changes? It's just the introduction of a great chaos. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u284	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u285	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I would like to ask you a very simple, short, concise question: Shouldn't a doctor, no matter what profession, take care of treatment, proper diagnostics, not selling or distributing drugs, vaccines, and God knows what else he's called to do and not do what he's called for? It is similar in the pharmaceutical law for animals. I don't want to compare people to animals, but there's that doctors can do that, and they're more involved in distribution, they're more involved in trade than in treatment. Don't you think that such solutions in other, next, successive drafts of legislation that have passed in this one are a threat? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u286	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The Minister of Health, Mr Konstanty Radziwiłł, will now speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u287	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for the opportunity to make your comments on the statements made by your Members. First of all, I would like to start by saying that this law has basically two goals that need to be realised. One is to restore the funding of vaccinations from the state budget, as always, because it has never changed. Fortunately, this provision has not yet entered into force this year because the Sejm adopted it in 2015 and it was only due to enter into force next year, and vaccination would be financed by the National Health Fund. So this is the first issue, the restoration of budget funding. The second main objective of this law is, one can say, a step towards achieving what is the constitutional obligation of the State: to provide public-funded healthcare services to all citizens and not just to those who are insured. These are, you can say, two targets. The issue of vaccines that were most discussed here, and specifically the possibility of excluding vaccines from the retail market in medical offices, is secondary in nature and certainly does not distort the idea of withdrawing from it. or the essence of this bill. On the other hand, speaking to the concrete doubts expressed by you, I would like to say that I am surprised at the position expressed by the representative of the Civic Platform, who said that this law - finally a tiny, short and really not some revolutionary one - turns the system upside down because such words were spoken here. [[Mr Beat Małecka-Libera: Yes, the financing system certainly is.]] This is completely incomprehensible to me. In the budget of the National Health Fund, said the Platform representative, it is easier to look for money for vaccinations than in the state budget. [[Mr Beat Małecka-Libera: Not in the state budget, but in the minister's budget.]] I don't understand that statement. I would like to say that every money saved in the National Health Fund, including those that, on behalf of or instead of the National Health Fund, will finance the budget, is the money that needs to be added to the overall pool of health money. It is clear that if we spend less of the National Health Fund on vaccinations, it will be possible to spend more on other benefits. It's a matter of simple arithmetic. Thus, especially those who are involved in one way or another in the health system should understand that PLN 140 million, which was allocated for this year, was PLN 140 million from the budget. If it had to be financed next year, then of course we would have to look, i.e. So much less money would be in the National Health Fund. However, I would like to point out that, unlike the previous years, when we spent about PLN 140 and 150 million from the state budget, this year we will spend from the state budget, not from the National Health Fund budget, as we will sum up all the amounts allocated for vaccination in 2016, the amount of PLN 380 million. Ladies and gentlemen, if any of those involved in the health care system would like that money taken out of the National Health Fund next year, then it must count on the fact that it translates into about ten annual budgets of a small district hospital, it is such money. I do not want to present any, so to speak, antagonism between the state budget and the budget of the National Health Fund, but we must be aware that we spend too little money on health in Poland. Any additional measures should be welcomed with joy by those who think about it, because probably everyone who sits here in this room is aware that health measures are simply not enough. I draw attention to the financial dimension of this project. I don't want to go too deep into the issue that has been withdrawn from this project, about not being considered a retail trade in vaccination in medical offices, because that is no longer in the project that you are leaning on at the moment... [[Mr Beat Małecka-Libera: We caught it.]] ...but I can't help but comment, ladies and gentlemen, that this is the issue we've been thinking about because of patients, not doctors. Today, a patient who goes to the doctor's office and wants to receive a vaccine that has not been shown in the compulsory vaccination calendar, gets a prescription very often and has to go to the pharmacy. In the pharmacy the vaccine is either gone, it may be in another pharmacy or in one where it is cheaper, and it may not be until the next day, or it may happen that the patient will meet someone on the way back to the doctor's office. In short, when he comes back with this vaccine under his arm - I apologize for these colloquialisms - it is not really known whether this vaccine is suitable for administration at all. [[Member Beat Małecka-Libera: Why wasn't GIF supposed to control it?]] It is certainly better that these vaccines are available on site. And without breaking away from reality, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking above all about influenza vaccination. In Poland, you can say, we have a statistical failure, less than 3.5% Poles are vaccinated against influenza and there are countries where this rate exceeds 40%. And that's a failure, our failure together. Something must be done to encourage people not only, but also to make it easier for them. One way to make it easier is for the patient to have a chance to inoculate himself on the spot after medical examination. This is not about anybody's interests, and it is absolutely not about 140 million zlotys, because one of your fellow Members called for this amount. This is about vaccines - not basic ones, just recommended ones. This is a different dimension of this whole thing. It's just that patients who want and should be vaccinated with a recommended vaccine can do it on the spot. What's more, ladies and gentlemen, today this is possible in entities that have the status of a healthcare provider, formerly a healthcare establishment, and it is not possible in offices that have the status of a group or individual medical practice. It's completely illogical. And I just wanted to draw attention to that in the margin, because unfortunately that's not in the project anymore. We agreed not to turn the whole project upside down because it wasn't, as I say, the essence of this project, just so that this project would just move forward quickly. And we didn't want to die for what... [[Quick?]] I promise you, we'll get back to this. I hope that, after these explanations that I make here, as well as those that I will make in the future, acceptance of this idea will be greater. What is more, I know that my predecessors have already tried to do this, also from the party that is today in opposition. Then I will no longer comment on other statements, because they simply relate to something that is not in the project. The representative of the Kukiz party15 says that we are trying to smuggle in some quiet way the universal free of charge right to benefits in primary health care. Ladies and gentlemen, quite the opposite. We are simply planning such a solution actually for the whole area of the public health system, at the moment we are proposing the first step which is possible without changing the rules, i.e. allowing universal access, free access to healthcare services in primary healthcare. Yeah, no one's denying it. In some strange way, during discussions both in the Health Committee and even now that this point is gone, everyone is focusing on the issue of vaccine administration in medical offices, when this is really the solution, one can say, the main one. Besides, this law is called the Law amending the Law on Benefits, which is actually the most important part of the Act. I am also surprised, especially in the mouth of the representative of the Kukiz party15, that there is some dislike for what the Member has called abolition. Yeah, that's the maximum liberal solution, citizen-friendly, who, for various reasons, didn't have insurance status or couldn't prove it. Abolition is definitely beneficial for all of us, not only for these citizens, but also for the finances of the National Health Fund. This is about so little money - we talk about basic health care all the time - that chasing these people is more expensive than the amounts involved. And that is why we are proposing such a solution, in some sense with the force in force backwards, just like any abolition. That word is not in the bill, but, I think, it kind of reflects what we're talking about. I am very sorry, by the way, because this law is not on this issue, that there is no epidemic in countries where vaccination is optional. On the contrary, they are not yet epidemics for happiness, but they are endemic. And this is a shame and disgrace for the whole medical world and for those responsible for vaccinations in countries such as Germany, like the United Kingdom, and not in Pakistan or India or other third world countries. This is where endemic diseases occur, which the World Health Organization wanted to eliminate from the world at all, just as it was lucky, before this thought of the dangers of vaccination touched the world, eliminating the real smallpox from all over the world through vaccinations. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about extremely serious things. I repeat once again: the law is not on this subject, but talking about it on the occasion of any vaccination regulation, doubting it, considering whether vaccinations are good or bad, is really something that can have extremely dangerous consequences. Please, this is an apolitical matter, so you really need to think 10 times about whether it's worth going into this. The call for experts who talk about it not to be financed by the companies. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry, but it's not like that. These are very strong words, they can incredibly hurt someone, insult them, touch them, but that's just not true. Evidence-based medicine says that vaccinations are good, effective and safe. And we have to listen to those who know about it, not to their own, sometimes just their own intuition. Party representative Polish People's Party asked a rhetorical question whether funding vaccines from the National Health Fund is good or bad. Mr President, it is neither good nor bad. It's just, if we're funding something from the National Health Fund, like I said before, we won't be able to finance other things that are the tasks of the Fund. That's all this is about. This is not an experiment. I would say that it would be an experiment to introduce funding from the NFZ from next year, because so far this regulation has not actually worked yet, fortunately it has not worked, and this year we are still funding vaccinations from the state budget, as has always been in history. Moreover, look at a certain, I would say, constitutional doubt - we are dealing with a widespread vaccination regardless of the status of insurance, and the National Health Fund is an institution of health insurance. So should the fund actually finance vaccinations against children who are not insured - a question mark, right? So that the experiment would be to introduce this principle, which stems from today's regulations. We're just restoring normality, nothing more, but it's neither bad nor good, it's just a matter of arithmetic. This money, which will be spent from the state budget, will be added to health expenditure or else - they will not reduce the expenditure of the National Health Fund for other purposes. In fact, I have already commented on the statement of the Modern representative who said that the resignation from the article. Two, which was in the original project, is to turn the bill upside down. No, and I assure you we will return to this solution elsewhere. Perhaps they need to be formulated a little differently so that everyone can accept them. Let me stress once again: this is about patient safety, about giving the opportunity or facilitating vaccination against diseases against which vaccination is not mandatory, so that it can be used on the spot as a whole, not running around pharmacies with exposure to the so-called problems. A cold chain when it comes to vaccines. There were a few more small questions. The question was who would bear the costs of this universally granted free right to benefits and, in particular, there are no longer hospital benefits in terms of diagnosis, etc. I stress very strongly: this law does not affect this at all. It is merely about restoring or giving de facto a free universal right to benefits in basic healthcare, where these benefits are very cheap. Let me remind you that this is a matter of capital charge from the payer, nothing more. There is no longer a Member who asked a question about pneumococci, the auditorium is not too big, but I would like to say that the Member is very deeply mistaken, because from 1 January all children in Poland as part of the compulsory vaccination calendar will be vaccinated against the Streptococcus pneumoniae bacteria, commonly called pneumococca. All the children. So far we have discussed this, for many years there has been a discussion about this, that it would be necessary that we are already slowly behind many other countries. Today we can say that we are behind almost all the countries of Europe, but also Japan, South Korea and many others. And since January 1st, that's gonna change. There are funds, we buy this, the regulation on this matter is signed, the calendar from 1 January will cover all children. Pneumococcal vaccinations are, as I recall, two primary and third booster vaccinations - all children will have the opportunity. Indeed, according to what you have counted here, how much money could be saved, we will be saving money in this way. Vaccines are financed from the state budget, not from the NFZ budget, and in some sense it can be said that the savings will be on the NFZ side. But the most important thing is that we will probably save many young children from death, many children from irreversible damage to the central nervous system with all consequences for life, dramatic, tragic consequences, and what's more, by reducing the natural pneumococcal reservoir, which are small children suffering from upper respiratory tract infections, we also protect, even though we do not vaccinate this population, including the elderly, who will thus be less ill with pneumonia and various other severe pneumococcal diseases. I would very much like to stress that in the case of diseases, especially those that are... Because once again there was a discussion about whether it was worth funding from the budget, because fewer people are getting vaccinated, it has to be different, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, I no longer want to repeat these appeals to treat with great seriousness and caution the various, so to speak, emotional judgments on vaccines, but I would like to say and remind you of one very important thing. Well, in order to effectively secure the entire population, including children who, for various health reasons, cannot be vaccinated, in most diseases, especially those that spread by droplets, we need to vaccinate more than 95%. population. Immunisation e.g. at majority level, 60, 70, 80% Of course, it protects those vaccinated, but it doesn't work for those who aren't vaccinated, and it also threatens those who are not vaccinated not because it was their parents' choice, just because they couldn't be vaccinated. We need to vaccinate more than 95%. population. And so far, fortunately, we're going to vaccinate so much, and in some vaccinations, we're going to get 100%. And it's worth remembering. Thank you, Marshal. Thank you, High Izbo. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Joachim Brudziński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u288	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Health Committee in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. High Izbo! The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has submitted a report on the draft law amending the Law on Feed. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51, paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, and in the debate on this item, to hear the five-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The Infrastructure Commission has submitted a report on the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Road Transport Act. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, on the basis of Article. 95f of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Marshals of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. I propose that the Sejm listen to three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in the discussion on this item. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the consideration of items 9 and 10 of the agenda: 9. First reading of the government draft law amending the Act on Retail Tax (Print No 952). 10. First reading of the parliamentary draft law repealing the Act of 6 July 2016 on retail tax (Print No 928). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Wiesław Janczyk to present the justification for the bill in print 952. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u289	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present a government bill amending the retail tax law contained in print No.952. The Act of 6 July 2016 introduced a new tax on retail sales into the Polish tax system. Its adoption was preceded by extensive public consultations and met with acceptance of most Polish traders. The declared objective of introducing a new tax, in addition to increasing the tax revenue of the state budget, is to offset competition in the retail market. However, by decision of 19 September 2016, the European Commission initiated a detailed investigation into our tax. The Commission is concerned that progressive revenue-based rates confer a selective advantage on low-income entrepreneurs over their competitors, in breach of EU State aid rules. At the same time, the European Commission has ordered Poland to suspend the application of progressive tax rates until a decision on the compatibility of the law with the internal market has been taken. I would like to stress that the European Commission's allegations regarding the non-compliance of our legislation with EU law are without strong substantive arguments, constituting a fairly biased interpretation of the EU rules on State aid. For these reasons, we are now at the stage of making an application to the Court of Justice of the European Union for a suspension order. Since the settlement of the dispute on the possibility of introducing the tax in the proposed form will take place before the Court of Justice of the European Union and there is a risk of financial consequences for Poland in the event of a unfavourable settlement of the dispute, the government has taken the initiative to introduce a temporary solution. Firstly, on 18 October the Minister for Development and Finance issued a regulation on the cessation of the collection of retail tax, including the tax due from September to December of that year, which would allow the effective expiry of the tax obligations for that purpose. At the same time, the Council of Ministers has drawn up this draft law which suspends the application of the Retail Tax Act until the end of 2017. This is the optimal solution. On the one hand, Poland implements the Commission's recommendation while protecting the budget against any payment of interest on the tax collected. On the other hand, we do not fully repeal the tax before the final decision is taken by the European Commission. That would be premature. Poland does not capitulate or anticipate the Commission's decision. We have serious and factual arguments in the dispute with Brussels. The adoption of this Act will not have negative consequences for taxable persons who are no longer obliged to pay the tax due and will in addition not have to fulfil other tax obligations under tax law. In addition, press reports on the negative practices of certain trading networks that passed the cost of tax on suppliers and producers are of a unit nature and only point to the calculation of those networks. At the same time, I would like to stress that there will be no negative consequences for the state budget due to the possible payment of interest on the tax collected. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The Polish government is on the side of honest entrepreneurs operating on our territory. We do not discriminate against companies with foreign capital, as they try to show some foreign trading networks. All retailers who earn a monthly income of more than PLN 17 million are subject to tax, and this does not apply solely or mainly to foreign entities. The European Commission's response to our tax is contrary to other officially declared actions to support small and medium-sized enterprises. The Commission is actually defending those who benefit from economies of scale rather than supporting those who do not have that possibility. And it does so in a discriminatory way in the context of unqualified trade taxes in France and Spain. The proposed time limit for suspension of the application of the law should allow the Commission to take a final decision on the compatibility of the tax with State aid rules. We are in constant contact with the representatives of the Commission. We explain to them the issues at issue regarding our tax and discuss the inaccuracies contained in the notified decision. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! By passing the bill to the High House for consideration, I hope that it will be accepted with understanding and that work on it will proceed smoothly. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u290	Thank you, Minister. I would like to ask Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska to provide the reasons for the bill in print No 928. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u291	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of the bill, which is contained in print No 928, is to repeal the provisions of the Act of 6 July 2016 on retail tax, which the Minister mentioned just now. The law, let us remind you, imposes additional tax burdens on the owners of retail outlets. In our opinion, however, this is an indirect way of extracting money from the pockets of Poles. Today no one really has any doubt that this new tax pays or will pay customers, suppliers and subcontractors of commercial networks, not themselves. Retail trade in Poland is characterised by quite low margins. According to the CSO in 2015, the average net profitability in this industry is 1.8%. Even before the new tribute came into force, merchants began to look for funds to cover it. This first affected the profits of producers supplying goods to taxable shops. Some networks have sent official letters to their suppliers asking for additional discounts, others have done so in a more meticulous way, but many Polish companies - producers of hedges, farmers, transport companies, security companies or cleaners - had to sign new terms of cooperation based on new prices already a few months ago. Today, the tax was suspended, but no one to those Polish companies who had already absorbed it into their costs did not give it away. He has not given and will not give back, especially in a situation of uncertainty, whether and when, in what amount and under what conditions this tax will return. Today, this uncertainty is driven by Polish trade, new investments in commercial areas, the creation of new jobs in Polish trade, and this uncertainty is pushed by nobody else, like the irresponsible government of PiS. It is also worth mentioning once again that this tax will not protect small neighborhood shops. They'll still be much more expensive than in the markets and customers won't change their habits. It's a lie pushed by the PiS easily overturned by the facts. And they look like the difference in the margin between hypermarkets and housing stores is often up to 20% today and will not change that 1.5 percent tax. Small shops have to bet on proximity, availability, quality, freshness or the provision of additional services, not the price. It is also worth recalling that the tax will hit the poorest Poles most, because it is they who shop at food discounts, which according to the latest proposal paid the highest rates. As soon as the law was passed, they started a very fierce fight for customer retention, which could be observed by giving up the fight in the form of competition for the direct price of the product. They implemented various loyalty programs, which were intended to divert attention from the price, while focusing the attention of customers on themselves, often at the expense of these small Polish neighborhood shops. Taxes must be created so that they give some predictability, a sense of stability to investors who want to invest their money in Poland. Today, this predictability and stability is completely lacking. The form of trade taxation in the course of the year has been worked over at least a few and the end cannot be seen. If you can't create taxes, don't create taxes. Should we be surprised that the tax has been suspended? We have already said in the course of the bill that the tax is not in line with European Union law that the European Commission will question its progressive nature, as in Hungary. PiS politicians knew that, too, and yet they did not prepare plan B. You've gone into chaos and incompetence because chaos and incompetence is your middle name. No one was surprised by the European Commission's communication of 19 September this year about the initiation of a detailed investigation into the retail tax in Poland, but the Minister had the opportunity to comment extensively on the commercial lobby in the European Union. I therefore wonder whether, in this situation, you will be blaming the European Union for not fulfilling your promises before the next election campaign. I have just a slight remark: don't forget that your promises cost about PLN 100 billion a year, and this tax was supposed to pay PLN 1.5 billion. Retail tax in the form adopted in the Act of 6 July this year. may also be contrary to Article. 32 Constitution of the Republic of Poland, which guarantees equality before the law for all. The continuation of the Act may lead to market segmentation and affect the decisions of economic operators on the business undertaken and conducted. The tax can, of course, be contrary to the EU ban on unlawful state aid. However, the authors of the law claim, as the Minister said in front of me, that tax preferences for small shops fall within EU law, because under certain conditions it allows the use of public aid for the small and medium-sized enterprises sector. However, EU documents do not refer to general tax preferences as an acceptable form of aid to SMEs, but merely to the fact that such aid must have a specific objective. If you don't know what a specific goal is, I'll tell you: it could be. support for innovation, vocational activation of women, support for investments or environmental measures, rather than simply introducing a new tribute aimed solely at the fiscal objective. This issue has led to the abolition of a very similar tax in Hungary, and you know that too. The progressive tax had to be replaced by a linear tax because the European Commission considered it contrary to European Union law. The Minister has assured us here that you will fight for this tax at the Court, but let's see what this has been like in the Hungarian case already known to us. From October 2010 to January 2013, Hungary was in force so-called. a crisis tax. It was based on revenues of companies from retail, energy and telecommunications industries. The basis was revenue and it was progressive, with a tax-free amount. Progression - from 0.1 to 2,5% revenue. Under the pressure of the Court of Justice, to which you wish to complain to the European Commission's decision, the Hungarian Government withdrew from this tax. In 2014, the so-called "Hungary" appeared in Hungary. the fee for official food control charged on sale in grocery stores. The fee is progressive, from 0 to 6%. In July 2015, this tax was suspended due to doubts raised by the European Commission. The Commission has accused unlawful public aid and unequal treatment. The progress of the tax has led companies with high margins and low turnover to a better situation than those with low margins and high turnover. In its reply in November 2015, Hungary changed the formula of the linear tax to a very low tax rate - 0,1% revenue. Hungarian supermarket taxes had negative economic effects in the form of exemptions and closures, restrictions on investment in commercial space and increased food prices. Since for you the Hungarian example is worthy of following on many other issues, I completely do not understand why you do not want to learn from these mistakes and those effects that you already see. Ladies and gentlemen, returning to the tax in Poland - today we have such a state that the European Commission has issued an order obliging Poland to suspend the application of this tax until the analysis is completed. We are threatened by proceedings before the European Court of Justice. The government hasn't come up with a plan B that we've been asking for for for a long time. The present form of the proposed tax, like any other one, is harmful to the economy, and is nothing more than an attempt to draw money out of taxpayers' pockets, because it translates directly in proportion to the prices of goods or is translated into production costs for food producers. Therefore, it is appropriate not to suspend this tax, but simply to abolish it, so as to end the entire farce associated with the failure of the Government of Law and Justice to implement this tax. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u292	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the joint discussion on these items, it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Mr Arthur Sobonia, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u293	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We have two projects - the projects we received in the Seym No. 952 and 928 prints. Two projects which show us an extremely different approach to the implementation of the presence in institutions of a complex legal nature, which is the European Union, by the Polish state. Indeed, on 19 September the European Commission launched a detailed investigation. And this is the moment we're at, I mean. The European Commission has not taken any final decision, but it is analysing on the basis of the reasons which lead it to do so, which was reiterated in its explanatory memorandum by the Member representing the applicants of the counter-project against the government project. The government project states that, in view of the above, it is necessary to ensure that taxpayers are not obliged to submit tax returns and to calculate and pay retail tax by the end of 2017 and that this first deadline for the declaration, which falls on 25 October for the month of September... does not affect the state budget for September. The date of entry into force of the Act is very, very short - another day after its announcement. A completely different approach is taken by the Modern Club, which, in connection with the suspension order because of the European Commission's analysis, proposes that the tax be abolished at all. What is the justification of the Modern Club? The Modern states that, taking into account the initial arguments set out in the Commission's Communication and the threat - the threat - of dealing with Poland before the European Court of Justice, the provisions of the Retail Tax Act should be abolished without undue delay. Well, I inform my fellow Members that the Court of Justice of the European Union is not here to put up with the rules, but to decide on uniform application of the law throughout the European Union. It is normal practice for Member States, businesses and citizens to use this institution of the European Union to resolve such doubts. Modern also cares about discount. It is stated in the explanatory memorandum that income taxation means that the new tax will be particularly severe for low-price sellers. These are groceries or supermarkets. And further: artificial market balance keeping companies less efficient at the expense of more efficient ones means inefficient allocation of resources in the economy. Therefore, Polish micro-enterprises, such as small shops run by the owner or his family, have very low productivity and it would be better if their capital and workforce moved to more productive places. In short, in the modern opinion, it would be best if there were no small family shops in Poland, because those who run these shops are not as efficient as the large commercial networks we hear about, that they benefit not only from help, but also for example. with support, money from the World Bank. The question is, is this really the case? It would be extremely unfair to our local entrepreneurs. The tax progression that the European Union is accusing us of is not obvious, and the Hungarian example is completely different. The doubts about whether there is public aid here are justified, because if we are talking about progress, firstly, there is no zero tax rate, secondly, this progression is only for two rates, but it is calculated from surplus, so there is no global progression here, but there is only level progression. Thus, each trader at the same level of income is taxed exactly the same. This possibility in the case of the tax that we have here is part of the autonomy of the Member States in shaping tax systems. This is a matter of doubt, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which will be decided by the Court of Justice. I believe that these two projects should be examined in committee, but it is significant that they both show a completely different attitude towards the presence of the Polish State and the defence of its interests in the bodies of the European Union.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u294	Thank you. I ask the floor of Mrs Isabella Leszczyna.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u295	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Club regarding the draft laws on retail tax, prints 952 and 928. In fact, we should start with the question: Isn't the government of law and justice ashamed? At the two-day session of the Sejm, you introduce three tax laws, each of which has basically one purpose: to rip off Poles - some regulations by imposing a new tax, others by raising the old one. And when the European Commission tells you that some tax is against international law, instead of saying out loud: we apologize to all Poles for the fact that in the election campaign we tricked you, talking about the tax on hypermarkets, instead of doing this, you expose Poland to the costs of proceedings before the Court of Justice of the European Union, and the sentence will be negative for you. We have been talking about this from the very beginning, even if the Member speaking here on behalf of the PiS enchanted reality. What's more, you call imposing new taxes sealing the tax system. Sealing is not about imposing new taxes. Sealing, as the name suggests, is the elimination of rifts which escape due public tributes. The state, on the other hand, can't do that. In fact, the only thing you can do is give away not your money, and that the money your predecessors have worked out ends up with you, you have to reach for the next pockets. One time you'll succeed, another time, like in the case of a trade tax, you just won't succeed. You have said this and you have said it many times, that the tax gap is 40 billion, ba, even 70 billion. Isn't that enough? So seal this system and get that extra 70 billion, and don't tax any more groups of entrepreneurs. You defend your lost position and you will not introduce a progressive tax, just as your friend Orbán did not introduce it, as has already been mentioned here. Just so we're clear, we have no satisfaction from the loss of the Polish government, just as we have no satisfaction from telling you: and we haven't told you since the beginning? One thing is certain: today everyone knows that no tax on hypermarkets will be introduced. It was an ordinary election humbug, as was aid to the French people or a free amount. There will be no tax, but there are problems. The tax was supposed to apply since September, so the commercial networks, contrary to what the Minister said here, have already charged the costs and suppliers and customers. Every sector tax is passed forwards and backwards, on suppliers and on customers. You can't change that. It really is the world championship: there is no tax, and taxpayers have borne the costs, and it is not those who were to be charged with it. And one more thing. I would be grateful if the Minister would be kind enough to explain to us how it is possible that you have suspended the tax and that the proceeds to the budget have remained. Unfortunately, it is not a miracle on the Vistula. This is a very unfair act, unfair to entrepreneurs, because you say this: we do not yet know how, but somehow we will draw this tribute from you. Do you believe, Minister, that in such a legal environment, in such uncertainty, it is really possible to develop entrepreneurship and plan business? As far as the club's design is concerned, this project doesn't actually make much sense, because the trade tax in such a version will not be. Traders already know that there will be no such tax, but they also know that this tax [[♪ The bell ♪]] In some form they'll pay, they just don't know what they're in yet. The Civic Platform Club is opposed to this tax, as is all the burdens for entrepreneurs that the PiS government is pleased to introduce. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u296	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Jerzy Kozłowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u297	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz club15 for both draft trade tax laws, but my words will mainly refer to the government project because I need to refresh the governing memory. More than a year ago in the election campaign one of your strong arguments to choose you was an action to introduce taxes on hypermarkets, which do not pay taxes in Poland, flee from CIT, etc. You started making this legal act after you won the election. Few of this, in the Budget Act for 2016 you accepted the amount, if I remember correctly, 3600 million PLN. That's when you started nodding with your project. I think you guys are out of your mind because this project came out of nowhere. How he got out. He went the wrong way, because the Western networks you wanted to fight had already split to avoid the highest tax threshold. Right now, you're suspending all of this. Undivided networks are also already being shared in case they do not fall into those snares in the future. Dear rulers, you love to complicate things. Wouldn't it be easier, if there were such problems with downloading CIT, to reject CIT in its entirety and introduce what we have been telling you since our strategy, i.e. since 2015? Forget CIT, introduce a uniform income tax. It won't pay anybody to run away from a simple tax. Not much, I think you know that the more complicated the tax is, the higher the cost of collecting it. The simple, uniform, universal tax gives first and foremost a sense of justice, which is not present at the moment, because every Polish trader who trades in Poland knows that he will always be chased and oppressed by our fiscal apparatus. Western corporations can afford creative accounting, to escape taxes. You don't get any profit from it, which means you don't learn from your actions. It's not enough, at the moment you've been so busy, you've given yourself the opportunity to take away the decision-making that will be outside of Poland at the moment. Once again, the corporations have won with you, once again, and not only with the rulers, because also with the predecessors. We remember the famous case of Viennese arbitration when we had to pay Eureko PLN 9 billion. It's a nice sum, but it was. At the moment, in the case of CETA without a shadow of criticism, you agree to such an agreement, where there is arbitration. Once again, you're giving advantage to corporations that play you every step of the way they've played you, influencing the process of this bill, which is currently suspended. There's really nothing to say about her, because she's not actually going to come into force. You do not believe that something will change within a year in the European Union, that the European Commission, in the form of arbitration, will change its mind, will admit you right and say: no, we were wrong, and PiS was right. That's not gonna happen. Don't believe it. Let me stress once again: withdraw from all your tax snooping. Patch up the budget gap when it comes to tax irrecoverability, but not like this. I agree with my predecessor here. Don't come up with any additional burdens, just simplify the tax system, level the odds of Polish entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs who have no idea where the reliefs are coming from, even the odds. Polish businessman cannot compete with the western business because he does not have the same tax burden. And I guess that's what anyone who's been doing a little bit of business knows. I see that the rulers do not necessarily have experience in this area, so I will repeat once again: your project, which is to suspend this tax for a year, is pointless. This suspension really doesn't give you anything, don't believe it. If I am to refer to the Modern project, then any project that will move towards no taxes, i.e. less burdens for entrepreneurs, will certainly not meet with my or our club with criticism, because the fiscal burden in Poland has already exceeded all limits. That's why I'm not against your project in this case. Personally, I would have whipped him because I don't see any reason why this tax would eventually go to the trash can. Maybe it'll be better for everyone. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u298	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Paweł Kobylinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u299	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Applicants! It's a scene. The son asks if all fairy tales begin with words: long, long ago. No, Father answers, some begin with the words: when I win the election. In this fairy tale: the authors of the project, who talked about the tax on hypermarkets, wanted to be like Jagiełło, wanted to destroy the Germans, to drive them away, the French, all the others, but it didn't work. Small stores like the rain, they fall like this. Ladies and gentlemen, it was supposed to be great to have a team on economic patriotism, whose greatest achievement is the questionable Entrepreneur's Day. There were supposed to be revenues to the budget at the level of probably over PLN 2 billion, and all of this is gone, all of this is gone. We have an even bigger budget hole, the clichés have become clichés, fairy tales have become fairy tales. We have two projects - one moving tax and one completely throwing it in the trash. We already have the third amendment, which is the third idea for this tax, from the media reports we see that it will now be a linear tax which nobody likes at all. The one who is, some of the environments have supported, thinking that it will, however, improve their competitiveness. I'm talking about small Polish traders. But it didn't work out, it didn't work out. I understand the applicant, I'm sorry, the Minister, who said how we might change it so far, we're looking at what the Union will tell us or not. The Union has already spoken on this subject. Really, this tax isn't going to pass in this shape. And it was a tax from the beginning of the bad, so I'm very surprised why the government pushed so hard to get hit on the head. I really don't get it, it's a logical thing for me. This tax is bad, but there are many other projects that hit trade. In addition to this turnover tax, which I have the pleasure of talking about here, there is a ban on trade on Sunday or a restriction - as you call it, so call it. Today, we've been working on a contract advantage. I would like to ask the question whether anyone who is investigating these unfortunate projects, or whether these people have any commercial experience. I don't think it's some kind of fantasy that we're talking about some fantasy here, and it has nothing to do with reality at all. The Modern Club is in favour of taxes being relatively low, fair, and this tax that we are trying to remove today is neither. He's tall because he's probably 1.8%. or 1.4% I'm sorry. There is a free amount that is quite debatable here. I would like to repeat Mrs Leszczyna's question: Isn't it embarrassing for you? What was that for? If it wasn't for a shoe like that, it wouldn't be at all. In this House, we have dealt with terrible legislation on many occasions, with completely senseless firing by seismic procedures, when it has really been said many times that it will not pass, that these projects are bad, such as in the case of land trading. Now the rotation of the land has stopped and I don't know if you're satisfied with yourselves. I don't think it's in the end. If you had a little humility, maybe smaller companies wouldn't be raining anymore, because it would be enough to really take care of them, not to give them a uniform tax, so now they won't even be able to save money, they'll just increase the burden. And I'd like to ask if it's something that should make you reflect. This is not about the European Union. She has indeed made recommendations, and you have a duty to address them somehow. But doesn't that make you reflect? I would like to ask Mr Soboni a question, who said that we as applicants bow to the European Union. No, that's not it. It's just that this tax is very bad. He is being transferred to suppliers, Polish suppliers, customers, and that is not the point. You want to seal the tax system, go ahead, why not? Okay. Here we all want the same thing, nobody wants to steal in Poland. And Modern doesn't want it, and PiS doesn't want it. I believe in good will. [[The platform doesn't want it either.]] Neither does the platform and Kukiz doesn't want it, and PSL doesn't want it, and independents don't want it, and European Democrats don't want it either. Everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, please reflect. Don't introduce any more taxes like that. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u300	Thank you. And please take the floor of Mrs Genowefa Tokarska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u301	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will present my position on behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club on these two retail tax projects, print No 928 and print No 952. The two projects under consideration are the result of a detailed investigation by the European Commission in accordance with the Commission's decision of 19 September. When discussing the draft law amending the Tax Act, i.e. from print No 952, it should be stressed that it suspends the implementation of the Act of 6 July 2016 by the end of 2017. The European Commission has taken a decision ordering Poland to suspend the granting of unlawful aid until a final decision has been taken by the Commission in which it would presumably consider that the provisions of the Act are compatible with the internal market. However, if the Commission's final decision were negative, it may be necessary to reimburse this aid, which would put the State Treasury at risk of loss. In view of the above, the project envisages a shift in the validity of the Retail Tax Act from sales revenue achieved from 1 January 2018 and therefore the application of the Act to retail sales revenue achieved between September 2016 and December 2017 is suspended. Let me remind you that the main purpose of the retail tax was to strengthen the position of small shops at the expense of supermarkets run by foreign capital. It was intended to increase the chances of Polish entrepreneurs and burden foreign trade networks. This is what the government has convinced us to do by introducing this tax. Unfortunately, it must be said that the assumptions have not been met. The first weeks of the law have shown that Polish companies have suffered the most. Polish entrepreneurs, farmers, supply companies, delivery companies, security companies and even cleaning workers suffered mostly. The managers of large trading networks, with a strong negotiating advantage - as could be expected - came to their suppliers with an expectation of applying supply discounts to cover the costs of the tax introduced. It's a classic transfer of costs to intermediaries and customers. It must be stated with full responsibility that the retail tax did not meet expectations and did not meet the objectives pursued. So the question has to be asked: Is it worth continuing to implement this tax at the expense of not foreign supermarkets, but Polish entrepreneurs? Shouldn't the current retail tax failure be supported by the second draft, from print No. 928, namely the draft repealing the Retail Tax Act of 6 July 2016? We believe that such a decision would be the most rational and most legitimate. The tax on foreign supermarkets was not effective, so let's give up this tax and let's not bother Polish farmers and Polish entrepreneurs anymore. The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party would be in favour of supporting the project from print no. 928, i.e. the elimination of retail tax. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u302	Thank you. Seven ladies and gentlemen joined the questions. If there are no more volunteers, I'm closing the list of people who are written down for questions. Question time - one and a half minutes. The first question will be asked by Mrs Margaret Navel. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u303	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 19 October, following the European Commission's communications on the non-compliance with European Union law, a regulation on the non-revocation of retail tax entered into force. According to the Ministry of Finance, the suspension of the levy does not exempt from other tax obligations. It is the submission of monthly tax returns on retail taxes. Due to the threshold of PLN 17 million, about 200 entities are concerned. When preparing a declaration, the designated entities shall carry out time-consuming and costly work without a specific reason, in principle only to establish the taxable amount and enter it in the relevant heading of the declaration. I wanted to ask you about the purpose of this solution, because this situation is a picture of the chaos that this government introduces into the tax laws. I also wanted to ask: How does the government intend to compensate for the lack of impact on the state budget of PLN 1.5 billion of this tax next year? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u304	Thank you. And I would like to ask Mr Arkadius Carrot's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u305	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! This law should be called a legislative bluff. I will not talk here about the issues that are contained in it, but rather I will try to obtain from you an answer to what is contained in it and what is also included in the proposals that have been presented to us. Firstly, on 19 October this year, a regulation entered into force which suspends the collection of this tax on traders, but, as indicated by the Ministry of Finance, it does not exempt them from other tax obligations, including the submission of monthly tax returns of retail tax. That's what the finance department wrote. Next, in this project, which we have received, it is desirable that the tax collection rules will only apply from the beginning of 2018 and this will be discontinued from September 2016 until December next year. At the same time, it was pointed out that this would allow businesses not to make these declarations, but once again by 25 October they had to make such a declaration. I ask: Why, despite these assurances that they will not have to, do they have to make these declarations? Isn't there a contradiction in what you have presented? Is that fair then? [[♪ The bell ♪]] To taxpayers? Second question. How will the funds already transferred by entrepreneurs be reimbursed and what will possibly replace the revenue planned for 2017 from this tax in the draft budget? Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u306	Thank you. And please take the floor of Mr Killion Munyama. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u307	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As we can see here, the European Commission has of course issued this order obliging Poland to suspend the application of this tax until the Commission has completed its analysis. Minister, when does the Polish Government expect the Commission to complete its analysis of the order? Does the Minister provide for the early suspension of the application of this tax if the Commission had made, before December 2017, a positive assessment? Wouldn't it be good to keep this modern project that talks about not introducing this tax at all? The proposed legislative arrangements will imply a lack of revenue from retail tax to the State budget. Only in the case of this year we are talking about PLN 472.6 million, and in the case of next year - about 1.5 billion, over 1.5 billion, or 1600 million. Can we talk about the need to add 1600 million to the proposed deficit? Isn't it, after all? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Are we going to have 60 billion deficits next year? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u308	Thank you, sir. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, I would like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u309	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! That's an example. proceding inadequacies, and that's a classic example. I think the textbooks will tell you how not to proceed and introduce tax. I recall all the emotions that took place here, the protest on the streets, the Members escaped from the Sejm, they went to the protesters, the minister said: well, we didn't get the first time, but we have a second idea. I also remember asking the Prime Minister here a question, seven times I asked her if she was aware that you had saved your income in the budget, and there is no established tax, or whether you consider it. And the Prime Minister didn't pay attention to it, she didn't listen at all, and until today she didn't answer my question, and the effects are visible today, and this is a masterpiece, a masterpiece because prices for agricultural products have been lowered, prices have been raised in shops, while the budget has not benefited. Money for the budget needs to be found somewhere, so there will be additional burdens. The question is, where will these burdens be for citizens, because someone has to pay, someone has to cover that difference. My question is: What are the consequences of this today? Did the government count this because the prices for deliveries were lowered and because prices were raised in shops: in small shops, in larger shops? ♪ 'Cause it's gonna [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's already done, you can see it with your naked eye. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u310	Thank you. I would ask you to ask Mr Tomasz Kostusia a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u311	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! According to the calculations presented, the European Commission's order to suspend tax collection resulted in a decrease in revenue to the state budget planned for the current year at PLN 0.5 billion and in the following years at around 1.6 billion. How will the budget gap be addressed? What key investments will be halted in connection with the reduction of revenue by the amounts indicated above? Does the government have an action plan in place in the event of a total ban by the European Commission on the levying of this tax? The proposed amendment does not change the provisions of the Act in itself, but merely translates the entry into force of the provisions already adopted. Finally, according to the Ministry of Finance's communication, the omission of the collection of retail tax does not exempt from other tax obligations, including the submission of monthly tax returns of the amount of retail tax, with the failure to make a declaration on time being a tax offence in the Criminal Code. In view of the current situation in which it is not possible to collect tax, it would not be appropriate to exempt traders from the criminal liability in the so-called "carrier'. A transition period? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u312	Thank you. And Mrs Krystyna Skowronska, I would like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u313	Dear Marshal, Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, A retail tax, a flagship government project has fallen, like few others in this parliament. And it's true. This project is dead. Despite repeated attempts by states to resuscitate this, to write any scenario, the European Commission has stated, as some experts have said earlier, that this project is impossible to carry out in this form. I would therefore like to ask the Minister: Is it true that your costs have been borne by your customers and suppliers? Can we ask the government how it estimates how much extra money came out of the pockets of Poles and Poles in connection with the increase in prices of goods, and it was not the money paid to the Polish citizen? I would also like to ask, because you are forecasting that within a year the situation will change, whether it is better to withdraw from this proposal today, to delete this tax so that this illusion does not hold up so as not to draw money out of the pockets of Poles, and to think, [[♪ The bell ♪]] When you have an idea. But the government project failed. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u314	Thank you. And Mrs Isabella Leszczyna, I would like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u315	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! About this lack of concern of the Minister of Finance, who has included in the Budget Act the tax resources that are not available, actually many of us have spoken. But I'm sure there's some idea of how to get that money, you have to have it. Tell the House, is it true that you have invented such a formula that stores will pay a monthly advance of 1% their turnover, and if it turns out that their income tax will be lower than the value of the advances made, the country will return the money to the entrepreneurs, only that it will be 2018. Isn't that, Minister, by any chance crediting you with business money? And do you think that's okay? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u316	Thank you. And Mr Andrzej Gawron.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u317	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, It is clear from the example of the trade tax that the European Commission is interfering with the development of our tax system. One argument that the adopted progressive trade tax system was intended to diversify companies that are small, family companies and give them a greater advantage is simply a illogical argument. Of course, Poland is an EU country, so it must be governed by these rules and conditions, by the laws that are applied in the European Union. But in this area they provide that VAT, which is, as it were, a tax of the European Union, especially here, in this area it is not possible in the case of taxes which are applied in Poland, to introduce solutions which could violate these rules. In examining the case law of the Court of Justice, it can be concluded that the proposal for differentiation in the tax law, depending on the size of turnover, may not, as the European Union claims, be in breach of European Union law. A progressive tax system improves competitiveness between parts of the small, medium and large businesses. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In addition, it should be pointed out that it is the possible linear tax that prefers the largest commercial networks. I think we will lead to such a solution that commercial networks will pay taxes in Poland. Thank you. [[For now, it's what citizens pay.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u318	Thank you, sir. The list of Members of Parliament has been exhausted and I would therefore ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Minister Wiesław Janczyk to speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u319	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank all of you for your questions, for your club speeches, for your concern about the state of public finances presented here. Thank you for all the ideas that have been presented here during this discussion. I would like to remind you that this is a discussion which also closes a certain stage of action on the introduction of retail tax. In contrast to the proposal made by the Modern Club, the Government of Law and Justice does not desert from the field where it conducts polemics with the institutions of the European Union on equal opportunities for doing business in the retail segment. This led to this project and to this action we were given the consent and power of the public, presenting such a plan and such assumptions to introduce this tribute in the course of the election campaign. Ladies and gentlemen, there was a social permission to introduce tributes that would ensure revenue to the state budget for amounts that were many times higher than those decided by the government in the final version. We had the courage to introduce this project as a government project. [[One of many.]] A tax structure was built that we believe could have obtained, and I am not losing hope that it will receive the European Commission's approval, possibly a positive decision by the Court of Justice of the European Union. How difficult is the situation in this regard, let it be seen that in our opinion many other countries of the European Union, especially Central Europe, would follow this path that Poland will develop in this area, because many countries would like to equalise the chances of doing business for entities that operate on a smaller scale than multinational companies, with a huge advantage, for example, when advertising their products, using economies of scale. The Government of Law and Justice has the ambition to strengthen the revenue of the state budget and is doing so in a systematic, very far-reaching way. The retail tax would be one of the streams of additional revenue to the State budget. And that's how you read this tribute. Please note that we have excluded all controversies, almost all controversies concerning the direction in which the tax obligation was formed, because starting from the fact that we had the courage to talk to people, and here before the Sejm, and in various bodies, in various forums, we have led to a deepening of knowledge about the industry, about the conditions of doing business by offering products in retail sales. And it was knowledge for many environments, for many people, for many participants of this segment of economic activity often surprising, because it showed how weak Polish entities are in position, often also cooperatives who have signed purchase agreements on certain supply platforms, sharing knowledge about their networks and their distribution, knowledge so full that they today have to function on the basis of very low margins. This is why the concept of exemption from taxation for those entities that receive income less than PLN 17 million per month was created. It showed that the government of Law and Justice cares about small neighborhood shops, stores run in a way... [[But it didn't work out.]] ...family and we hoped that the European Union, speaking of subsidiarity, about openness to creating conditions for business in such a way that it allows the development of family businesses, allows the development of small businesses, but does not question this tribute. I, as I stress, do not lose hope that this formula will be accepted. To answer another question, the government of law and justice is not deserting, we will proceed to the end of this matter. We have this right, and we will benefit from this right, also so that society is clear about the position of the European Union, so that knowledge and lessons are created for other countries of the European Union. Let us remind you that Hungary faced a similar subject. We felt that the proposal to introduce two tax rates, and not, as the Hungarians have tested it before the Commission and before the Court, a multi-stage method with significant progress could be acceptable in this respect. The indisputable thing is that we have gained a great deal of knowledge that we have shown that we can afford to be open in dialogue with society and gain maximum acceptance. This acceptance also flowed from the environment of a number of players who operate in the industry and were looking forward to equal opportunities, the ability to conduct effectively, with good results, with good business results in retail business. With regard to the questions that you are asking: first a regulation and now a government bill suspending the application of the tax by the end of next year - this changes the picture of the situation of entrepreneurs in so far as after the entry into force of this law they will not have to make a declaration, the tribute has been suspended, i.e. no one really had to implement the regulation of the Minister of Development and Finance. For the duration of the dispute with the institutions of the European Union, with the European Commission and then with the Court of Justice of the European Union, none of the traders has been and will not be subject to this tax, and the need to make declarations in this respect It will disappear with the entry into force of the Act. But this will, of course, also give a picture of the situation, provide some data on how the market works in this area. There were questions about why a single turnover tax cannot be introduced. This is a discussion that is easy to initiate, and the European Commission would probably have a lot of comments on such an idea. There is a difference in profitability in different industries and the introduction of a uniform turnover tax on all is something that would probably also be called into question. Mrs Navel, I have explained how the declaration will work after the entry into force of the law, i.e. that they simply will not be. Mr Munyama asked whether the situation would be resolved during this year. We expect you will. We do not want to set a shorter deadline because we believe that this gives everyone a sense of this stability, which was also mentioned here in the club speeches. Let me remind you that we have proposed only one form of tax so far. There is only one form of tax that we have actually worked through and led it to the legal form, so that please do not make an unfair accusation here that various forms have been worked out. The Government of Law and Justice has proposed and submitted, and the parliamentary majority has passed a law in one formula and it has been the only law so far. The question was whether the revenue from this tax was recorded in the Budget Act for the next year. Yes, the remaining income is saved at the level of PLN 1.2 billion. I must say that the Ministry of Finance, that the government has so far launched a legislative process on many changes that will have positive effects on the sealing of the system, on the improvement of the revenue of the state budget. Let me put it this way: these figures from different titles are designed in a conservative way in the Budget Act, i.e. one that should not specify those amounts that were included there as overestimated amounts. The revenue from this tribute - I stress this repeatedly - has a really minimal impact on total revenue and represents a fraction of the percentage of budgetary revenue. Hence, it seems to me to be exaggerated and exaggerated how public opinion empathizes with this fact regarding the uncertainty of these revenues. These questions about shape, about the size of the deficit are repeated. I can only add that, after September, the current year has already shown that this process of legislative change which the High House has adopted at the initiative of the Government of Law and Justice brings good results in the repair of the tax system. Tax revenue on VAT, CIT, excise duty, PIT and basic taxes is several billion zlotys, nominally counting than last year. So we have the right to assume that we are going in the right direction, looking for good solutions, repairing public finances and the tax system, which is difficult to say about the previous ruling team that... [[Minister, economic growth.]] ...behaved very passively and showed no concern, no interest... [[That's not true.]] ...and especially ideas, because there is a lack of evidence here in the statements, such as the honourable Member's, for example, to do so. Question... [[1% of the turnover, I asked about the advance.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that this is where I can conclude my speech and that I have exhausted the list of questions that have been raised to this point. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]] [[Minister, you didn't answer.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u320	Thank you, Minister. Please take the floor of the applicant's representative, Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u321	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Maybe I'll start from the end, that is, from the Minister's speech, which also referred to what I said earlier. The Minister said that... Finally, the Law and Justice of the Minister admitted that he was looking for additional revenue in the budget, looking for them in the pockets of Poles, because many times during this debate it fell here today from this speaker, both in questions and in positions of individual clubs, that we all know today that this tax has moved on to the pockets of Poles, moved on to direct prices of products, also transferred to the costs of suppliers supplying their products. On this track, Minister, let's face it, it's the same as you would raise VAT by 1.5%, 2%. This would probably give a very similar effect, only that there Poles would see that you have no money, that the king is naked, that the 50 billion of VAT, which was supposed to be on the streets, is simply not that you lied in the election campaign, that without the additional burden of taxpayers, Polish taxpayers, not foreign, you will carry out your numerous electoral promises, as we have been saying in this House for 12 months. It is also not true what the Minister said, that there was one form of trade tax. I remember that proposal you made in the election campaign that was supposed to relate to the area of commercial premises. Later, we had a form that brought part of the trade to the streets, among others. franchisees. Today we have this tax, which is suspended by the European Commission. Behind your back there is a linear tax in such an exorbitant form that it again raises the opposition of those who even recently supported your form. So I've already mentioned four forms like this. Just out of the way, out of the way. I think that if we did some digging, there would be a lot more to the ideas and proposals discussed in the government. There is no denying that, fortunately, the income from this tax is not really some gigantic percentage of the revenue of the budget for next year, but somewhere in all this you can also refer to a certain reliability and professionalism with which the PiS government has nothing to do with it at all. And that's sad, unfortunately. So to say, Minister, that you are repairing public finances is really a huge hypocrisy on your part, because, on the one hand, you are introducing taxes to the next year's budget, which are suspended and which you are statutoryly suspending, and on the other hand, you said that you are repairing public finances, that it is a fraction, and I will remind you that a fraction of the percentage also separates us from 3% of the deficit and the return to the excessive deficit procedure. So you have introduced a very questionable budget for next year, leaving no safety margin. But I will also refer to what you have said in the positions of individual clubs. I'll start with Mr. Arthur Sobonia from Law and Justice. That is not a counterproposal, sir. You don't understand what I've said or what we're proposing. This is a further proposal, not a counter-proposal. Because our proposal to the Law and Justice proposal does not even change the scale of revenue to the budget for next year, which simply will not be, regardless of which form we take, and at least our proposal gives a clear and clear picture to entrepreneurs, how they can further plan the development of their business and live peacefully. Nor does this proposal show that we do not recognise or want to take advantage of the European Court of Justice. It is simply that the Court has already expressed itself in this case, as I said in my earlier speech. A very similar example is being worked out in the case of Hungary. Today, in my speech, I specifically referred to this example, going over it and examining what was happening there on the way for a few years and how further proposals were questioned. And let me tell you this, sir: I bet you won't introduce a progressive tax. Just as I was prepared to bet a few months ago when we were debating the introduction of this form, which ultimately passed the legislative process with your votes, so I can bet today that you will not introduce a tax that will be based on progress and which the European Union will not question, of course, through the European Commission or the Court of Justice in its case law. Is it worthwhile to maintain - and this is what you referred to - inefficient trading points, which have higher margins and yet do not stand up to competition in the market? Certain regulations in the market, which support weaker actors, should be, but only those that make sense, Mr President. In all this, you have to... Your duty as a Member of your constituents is to take care of the interests of consumers, and today you do not care about this interest, like all the Law and Justice, I will return to it again, because this tax is already in the pockets of Poles, customers, and in all this we must take care of... Keeping unprofitable points working on higher margins that don't give anything in return... I am prepared to pay more, sir, but I must get quality, availability, speed, additional service in return. [[Voice from the room: And there is no such thing.]] This is the way that small Polish companies can go. If you don't wash their eyes, they'll do great on this market, finding their niche, because they're already doing fine. If you were to trace statistics in Polish trade, you would know that in Poland there was a retreat from large hypermarket networks, and it was not because of your eye soaping, that the trade tax would change something here. I'm going to refer again to the statistics that I've already quoted here today: 20% the difference in margin and you want to convince Poles and owners of small Polish estate shops that 1.5 percent tax will change anything in this difference between the margins of individual traders? It would have been easier, as I said, to raise VAT, but this is what we were talking about, and you're going to have to do it someday if you keep giving away money to the left and to the right, and unfortunately you know it and you're going to be looking for it. There are already various proposals in income taxes that break through from the government or from around the government, which concern Poles - the elimination of pro-family benefits, the joint settlement of spouses. You will finally come to the conclusion that if Hungary has to raise VAT, I hope it is not 27%. Mrs Izabela Leszczyn said that there will be no tax and that our law makes no sense. I will not agree with you, because the spectrum of this tax is on the Polish economy and the subject needs to be closed. As soon as we've dismissed him, we'll suspend him... [[No one believes in this tax anymore.]] At least that's how we know where the Polish trade stands, and it's time to force the right side of the room to get the Members to hit their chests and say, "We have fallen down, we haven't managed, we're not going to do this electoral promise." Not to mention that yesterday there was a leak, that in the PiS ranks there is a new formula of this tax, a linear tax at a very high level, which aroused opposition of small and medium-sized traders in Poland. It is no wonder that there is opposition if the profitability is wrong with the percentage of tax paid, and about so one can comment on the last ideas that came out of the benches of Law and Justice. So, to sum up, this tax, Mr PSL, has done well, should be introduced into economic books as an example of how not to introduce taxes. Yes - this 1 billion should increase next year's deficit. Yes - the PiS government has completely fallen on this tax. Yes - the tax is detrimental to the Polish economy. Yes - this tax is not paid by any international commercial networks, it is paid by Poles, customers and suppliers of commercial networks. Finally admit it, finally. I want you to understand this and close this story so you can finish this charade. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u322	Thank you, Member. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the Government's draft law amending the Act on Retail Tax, contained in print No. 952, and the parliamentary bill repealing the Act of 6 July 2016 on Retail Tax, contained in print No. 928, to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. High Izbo! Let me inform you that at this point we have about 50 minutes of acceleration. I therefore propose that we proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda, but at no later than 6 p.m. 18.30 a point was envisaged: Request for a vote of distrust towards the Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska, therefore at 6 p.m. 18.30 I will announce a break so that I can consider this point in accordance with the agreed timetable. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the Government's draft law on support for pregnant women and their families (Prints No. 968 and 970). I would like to ask Mrs Bożena Borys-Raccoon to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u323	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! The government draft law on support for pregnant women and their families was addressed to first reading in the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy on 2 November. The contested law introduces solutions for comprehensive support for pregnant women and their families, with particular emphasis on access to healthcare services and policy instruments for the benefit of the family, among others. guaranteed benefits, especially for children who have been diagnosed with severe and irreversible disability or incurable life-threatening illness that occurred during the prenatal period of development of the child or during childbirth. In the course of its work, the Committee adopted legislative amendments. She made an amendment, added an article. 11a, considering that the amount of the single benefit provided for in the Act is not taxable. In addition, the committee rejected the amendment concerning the title of the law. This draft law was adopted by the committee with no objection, with 7 abstentions and 19 votes in favour. High Seym! On behalf of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, I ask the High House to adopt the Act on the Support of Pregnant Women and their Families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u324	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice by Mrs Ursula Rusecka. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u325	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present to the High House the position of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice in relation to the government's draft Act on the support of pregnant women and their families - for the life of print No. 968 and 970. A government project aimed at regulating support for pregnant women and their families, entitled "For Life', is the first important step to start working on a comprehensive aid scheme, a historical programme, because it is the first one in history, extremely innovative. The primary objective of the project is to support women who have had complications during pregnancy who have experienced maternity failure and have been diagnosed with severe and irreversible foetal impairment or a life-threatening disease of these children. Designed solutions are essential to ensure that all women waiting for their offspring feel safe and help from the state in the event of a diagnosis of irreversibly impaired or incurable illness in their expected child. It is therefore extremely important for the country to include women experiencing pregnancy pathology or expecting a sick, disabled child with proper care and support. It is necessary to run an aid scheme for families expecting a sick child. State care in the area envisaged by this project is intended to include access to healthcare services, including prenatal diagnostics. The envisaged support for families and waiting women will be implemented through access to information on support solutions. Both mother and child will have access to adequate healthcare services. In addition, the project provides that women expecting a sick child and their families will receive a cash benefit granted by the State. Of course, the money provided by the government to the families waiting for the sick child will not reduce their suffering, but the support granted will help prepare the family better for the reception of the sick child. The existing aid in this area is not sufficient. The funds transferred by the State in the amount of 4 000. zł will allow the first aid to all families who are faced with severe information about the illness of the expected child. At this point, it should be noted that the commitment to undertake and prepare the programme came from this speaker just a few weeks ago from the mouth of Prime Minister Beata Szydło. Today we are discussing the draft of the first law, which is the first step in implementing the broadly understood aid to our families in particularly difficult situations of life - yet another proof that the Government of Law and Justice is properly fulfilling its obligations. I thank the Prime Minister and the entire government for not throwing words at the wind. I remind you that it is November, and already since 1 January 2017, the first stage of the programme will have the opportunity to enter into force. I'm counting on the support and determination of all the clubs. This is a matter that requires action over division. In view of the above, given above all the welfare of women, their families and the unborn and already struggling with the disease of children, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice recommends a positive opinion of the bill submitted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u326	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mrs Marzena Okłę-Drewnowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u327	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I do not think, Madame, that parents who raise children with disabilities are anxious to be hasty and unquality. Parents who raise children with disabilities want comprehensive, reliable help, as they talked about today in the committee we attended. The parents of disabled children expected a completely different aid from the one you submitted in this bill. At the time when there was a black protest, which led you to reject a project banning total abortion, and the Prime Minister from this speaker announced that there would be a project Unfortunately, this hope lived in them until yesterday. Yesterday, this project came in yesterday. Today was the first reading in the committee, now there is a second reading, tomorrow we will vote quickly, in haste and on our knees. You can't do that, but, well... It's not about help, it's about a life-pro-life project, it's about making amends just and exclusively for pro-life organisations who have reported a project that completely bans abortion. It's just reparation and compensation, nothing more, because it doesn't even stun your conscience. Because in 2014, you challenged the Constitutional Tribunal with a law saying that benefits for disabled people cannot be differentiated according to the time when this disability arose and today in this law you do the same because you grant 4 000. zł, but only to women who have been found to be ill, suffering from a defect, or who have been found to have a disability during childbirth. What about children who have become disabled, whose disability has been revealed, I don't know, six months after birth, two years, five years? What about them? You forgot about them in this bill. How are they different? After all, the parents of these children, most often mothers, have to give up their jobs and have to take care of these children 24/7. For this reason they have a care provision of PLN 1300 - we have raised it to that amount, and in your governments it was only PLN 420. Today, however, we would like to work on this bill so that it is fair. So now that you're giving me the $4,000. For those women who have been found to have a sick child or have a sick child during childbirth, also give to those who take care of a sick child whose illness or disability has become apparent later. And that's all we want from you today. That is why we, as the Civic Platform Club, will now make such an amendment. Another thing, ladies and gentlemen, I don't know if you've heard what the parents of children with disabilities have said. These are not the words of the Members of the opposition. They talked about it until I was ashamed to say it's a scrap, it's a charity. They talked about disappointment and bitterness. Therefore, it would be good for you to consider their voices, not even ours, but theirs. Another amendment, ladies and gentlemen, which we want to make. 4,000. Evil, you say. Yes, but only for some, only for those women who will give birth to a living child - so it is written in the bill. So at least delete this word alive and let it be 4,000. for a woman who's just having a baby. At least that's it. I know it's $4,000. will be then, when the child is not alive, because it will be for another benefit paid by the Social Security Office, or funeral allowance, but this woman is having the child and even her money, for therapy, for a psychologist, will be very much needed. That is why we make this second amendment. [[Jesus.]] These are concrete substantive amendments. And nothing more, and that's all we want from you. You won't listen to us anymore, but at least listen to your parents. If you don't believe me, play back what was in the Social Policy and Family Committee today. Give everyone $4,000 each. zł and let care be comprehensive, not just for some, for the chosen. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u328	Thank you. Please take the floor of Ms Agnieszka Chasing.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u329	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Poselski Club15 on the draft law on support for pregnant women and their families. With the whole emotional upheaval of changing abortion law, the Prime Minister's promise that she would present a very quickly comprehensive support programme for families where a disabled child is raised was actually the only positive accent. Many mothers who raise children with disabilities, many people with disabilities, on the other hand, have noticed the flame of hope and have been disappointed very quickly again: a complete lack of understanding and empathy and a pure PR procedure - in these words they want to close this comment properly. If this bill, as you say, is a stage, then why didn't you just call it a stage, just a comprehensive solution? It's not a complete solution. It might not be the words of bitterness, disappointment, what Mrs Okła-Drewnowicz said in the committee, we would just wait and the parents would wait, the disabled would wait. If a woman finds out she's having a disabled child, she's certainly not afraid in the first place that she can't afford a wheelchair or a cot, because that's the $4,000. I think it's enough for her - she's afraid she's gonna have to spend her whole life watching her baby suffer. She can't just afford rehab, treatment, and she'll just have to look into it for the rest of her days and the rest of her baby's days. We have many contradictions, absurdities, absurdities in the whole system of helping people with disabilities in Poland. We differ in support for the carers of people with disabilities because of when this disability was created. You make one live for 520, another live for 1300 zloty. I would add that none of these amounts fulfils any minimum existence criterion at all. But if for example. The mother will hand her child over to the welfare home, then the state will pay 4,5,000 without hesitation. monthly. For years there has also been no valorized care allowance in the amount of PLN 153. Rehabilitation and treatment are often required simply by citizens. I will remind you, because in this law 70 million PLN is designed per year for the implementation of this programme, that citizens every year with 1% their tax passed on to foundations and associations allocates almost 0.5 billion to rehabilitation and treatment. So when it comes to any financial activity of the State, 70 million is simply nothing with regard to what citizens give for this treatment. Medical care, rehabilitation or psychological support offered under this law is not grace, it is simply a constitutional guarantee. The vague definition of what children's disabilities or illnesses are mentioned in the Act also raises a lot of doubts. The comprehensiveness of this law you have brought to the role of assistant family coordinator. It is not clear what powers and powers this assistant will have. If its function is limited to the same role, function and powers as the assistant of the family at the moment, and its capabilities will be brought only and exclusively to the role of the official, he will only be able to actually inform the family what rights it deserves. I would also like to remind you that such a role in the Polish system already fulfils e.g. Social worker, nurse or midwife. Maybe it's not worth spending money on that kind of formula. Madam Prime Minister - she is not here, but I ask the Minister to convey these words - your speech was really a flame of hope. Don't let it be extinguished by the media flashes that this project unfortunately serves today. The most valuable part of this law is the final provision, art. 10, which says that the Council of Ministers will adopt a programme of comprehensive support for families by 31st this year. Prime Minister, we're just waiting. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u330	Thank you, Member. And please take the floor of Mrs Cornelia Wróblewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u331	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, this is a shame. It is a shame for the Polish state that the Polish state does not only care about such families, but even cheats them. I will not hesitate to use a strong word: those who raise, those who take care of, often sacrificing their lives not only professional, are the heroes in every society and the Polish state should see them that way. They need state support, but they should not demand or ask for it. Honest politicians should give this support themselves - Mr Andrzej Duda's words from the presidential campaign. And Prime Minister: We've been tricked all the time. For 8 years, the environment of people with disabilities has been deceived and shared. We're gonna bury these divisions. We talked and listened. We listened to you all, we listened to what you had to say to us, and you can believe me, we heard your voice. Who were you listening to? Who was the Prime Minister listening to? 'Cause it's not those unborn children. The environment of people with disabilities needs systematic support, needs real help here and now - children who live, parents who look after them, here and now. That's what you said, you promised. Where are you, where's your system help? Ladies and gentlemen, you share and argue with the environment, because if the environment is conflicted and it doesn't speak with one voice, then you'll be happy to cut your hands and say, "Sorry, you guys haven't gotten along, we can't help you, we can't help you." And then you put in laws that divide the environment of people with disabilities. If you care about the support of people with disabilities, start with those with disabilities who are living today, those who are fighting for their lives today because they are getting money from you, which is below poverty, the poverty line. That's the kind of money you give them. Do you need tools? You're welcome. Tomorrow, the Modern is submitting a bill relating to the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal on the non-constitutionality of the moment or age of disability, which is divided by the environment of the guardians of the disabled. This is unconstitutional, as expressed by the judgment of the Constitutional Court. No one's taken care of this since 2014. We have a bill that changes systematically, actually changes the situation of people with disabilities, a law that has been consulted with the environment for many months, with experts that are expected, needed and which state - as I quote both the President and the Prime Minister - you have announced that you will create. A month ago, a meeting was convened for today by the disability team to discuss case law, systemic changes, what is really needed. Everyone was invited - the Minister was invited, the representative of the government for people with disabilities. Yesterday it was confirmed that the Minister couldn't, because today, at the same time, you were handed over a bill written for two weeks on your knees. No one came from the government's attorney's office, although you confirmed to Senator Philip Libicki yesterday that someone was coming. Is that your support for people with disabilities? Think about it. You want tools? We will be happy to help with their work and implementation, just tell whom you really want to help. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u332	Thank you. And there is still time for the club Modern Mr Marek... [[Augustine.]] Excuse me, Mrs Joanna Augustynowska. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u333	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's a long time to complain about how bad this bill is. However, it is necessary to tell all citizens, all mothers, what this law concerns. This bill does not solve the problems of system families with people, with children with disabilities. This bill is merely an expression of your protest, your ideological stubbornness, which you are trying to impose on Polish women. You're scared of the black Monday, you're scared of the power of women, and today you're trying to drop off in accordance with the legislative procedure, without keeping the deadlines that the Sejm's rules are about, without consulting, this project. It's a government project, and you haven't agreed these records with anyone, you don't care. Here's another thing. This bill, as has already been said today, is incompatible with the constitution. But what do you care if the Constitutional Court doesn't work, right? You may be pleased, but I don't believe that that's the $4,000. You're gonna be able to shut the women's mouth, and you're just not gonna make it. This bill is bad, this bill just throws away the scraps, the alms, as mothers say, who raise children with disabilities on a daily basis, does not solve problems. All the rest of the records that are in this bill are simply copying the Family Benefits Act, health care benefits. They don't work because health care doesn't work. Minister, you have to take care of the health care, you have to take care of the nurses, [[♪ The bell ♪]] You have to take care of it so you can solve the case systematically. Then these families will feel that the state is helping them. And this is just a bribe. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u334	Please take the floor of Mrs Andzelika Możdjanówska, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u335	Thank you very much. Minister! High Izbo! In fact, we can make it clear today who we are implementing. Let me quote: We will strive to ensure that even cases of very difficult pregnancy, when the child is sentenced to death, severely deformed, end in childbirth, so that this child can be baptized, buried, has a name. That's a fact. When the Prime Minister announced support for children with disabilities coming into the world, we were all happy because this is the subject extremely difficult - extremely difficult, sensitive, which needs a system solution. Until now, however, no one wants to believe that the Law and Justice are counting on a few points that are already being implemented today, with several regulations and adding 4,000. zł. So? We are completely in favour of helping a group of parents, but let us not insult them, hoping that the granting of the bill would be 4,000. Evil will be a real help. Of course, we realize that today's government television news will show interviews with parents who will thank you for an additional 4,000. zł. And I'll tell you more: this time it's gonna be honest interviews, because it's better to have 4,000. Evil than not having them. However, we would be much more helpful to these parents if this support was paid monthly, not only after birth. That's $4,000. zł, and the cost of rehabilitation is four times higher. PLN 18.50 per month, 61 gr of daily support, this is the 4,000. PLN, and daily rehabilitation is a cost of 50 PLN. That's 200 zlotys a month, that's an average of 14,000. PLN per year, but rehabilitation does not end one year after birth, does not end after a few years, often lasts a lifetime. The Minister says this is the first step. Then why aren't we talking about complex solutions here? The rapporteur said that this applies to all women. Not all women, but those for whom defects in children are detected during prenatal pregnancy. What about the flaws in early childhood? What about children with autism? We're talking about backup. Minister, this is just 50 million PLN, this is a drop in the sea of needs. And what do we see in the budget bill? Reduced funds for environmental welfare homes, adoption centers. Here's another thing. The Minister is talking about unlimited access with quota restrictions. Is this unlimited access or is it a quota restriction? Prime Minister, if you really want to help, because this is your promise, it is worth thinking about how and how much to extend the 500+ programme, including rehabilitation support, and fully embrace the parents of children with disabilities. 4,000. zł, ladies and gentlemen, this is 1/3 of what the Miesiewicze received, and I believe that the Polish government is obliged to support all children with disabilities. Therefore, on behalf of the Polish People's Party, I will present today an amendment aimed at providing, in addition to 500+, support in the form of rehabilitation allowance for every disabled child. 500 PLN additionally for support, because parents will use it for the sake of their child. When a child laughs, the whole world laughs. That's what we're all saying. We know that a baby is like a beautiful flower, but we really need to take care of it. Every mother who gives birth to a disabled child with tears in her eyes thanks you for his happy day, but with tears in her eyes she worries about his future every day. I don't even want to get divorced over proceding because it's one big shame. It is a shame at all to call it "For Life," it is a hypocrisy which is presented here today, because this law will not guarantee every day a wonderful, safe development, rehabilitation and hope for parents of children with disabilities and will not give this hope to the full, will not give a chance to realize. It's very sad. What about working mode, ladies and gentlemen? Because the Constitutional Tribunal, because the budget bill, because promises that have not been fulfilled. It's not a law of the day, it's a law of the night. This is a bill that everyone should be ashamed of if we accept it, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because $4,000. It's not support, it's charity. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u336	Thank you very much, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Jack Protasiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u337	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Representatives of the Government! I remember - it was probably on 6 October, quite recently, not a month - as President Kaczyński spoke from this stand in this embarrassing situation in which the Law and Justice were in, retreating from the decision taken to refer the Ordo Iuris project to further parliamentary work, here from this speaker first - but let's leave this because this speech was basically without history - and then Prime Minister Beata Szydło got up and said: On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Poland, I declare that we are responsible for the protection of life, and I make three commitments on the protection of life. The first commitment: by the end of the year we will prepare a support programme for women who have decided to give birth to children from so-called. a difficult medically endangered pregnancy. By the end of the year, we will prepare a support programme for families who have decided to raise such children, and during the budget work on the 2017 budget, we will secure adequate funding for the implementation of this programme. The information campaign that the Prime Minister was talking about, let's leave it on the side, it's irrelevant. I've seen your reactions. You woke up and applauded that declaration with enthusiasm. This is the result of this declaration: 8 pages, 8 pages, 4 000. zł single benefit. [[Voice from the room: Don't yell.]] Are you serious? [[Voice from the room: Yes, serious.]] Have you no conscience? [[Voices from the room: We have a conscience. We do.]] Don't you have any shame? [[Voice from the room: We do.]] Do you know what $4,000 is? Evil? Is that enough for a wheelchair for a rehabilitation bed? [[Voice from the room: You should have given more.]] [[The voice from the hall: the shrewd and the hypocritical.]] You don't have any money? You don't have any money? I'll tell you where you should find the money. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] 500+ program for every child, for every other child in every family. [[Bożen Boris-Raccoon: Did you give? Did you?]] Do you know what the impact of this program is? The nurse who earns 1650 PLN and raises a child alone, and for the head there is 825 PLN, is not entitled to 500+. A millionaire who has four children gets $1,500 a month. [[Voice from the room: 8 years.]] That's your social policy. That's your conscience. That is your concern for Poles who are in need. [[Game in the O.R.]] Shame. I'll tell you, shame, shame again. I will walk around Poland with this bill and show that these solemn promises... [[Get yourself a bag of penance.]] ...this commitment, which Mrs Beata Szydło made from this place, is exactly 8 pages and less than PLN 0.5 billion. I'd be like this if I were Prime Minister of the Government, I'd never submit it. If I were a member of the PiS, if I were a member of the coalition party, I would never support it. If I were a member of the coalition party, to tell you the truth, I wouldn't even show up in this debate... [[You're not gonna make it.]] ...like most of you, because I'd be ashamed. I'd be ashamed to stand before parents of disabled children, who you're about to ban birth decisions because in a moment... That's what it's for, to report... [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]] ...a project to radicalize an abortion bill. [[Don't yell.]] I'm screaming because I'm outraged, you know? Because he's blowing me away. It's spreading to me when I look at your hypocrisy, your hypocrisy, and how you're trying to fool the Poles and the poorest. 8 pages, 0.5 billion PLN. Shame. Shame. Finish yours, spare your shame. That's all I'm gonna tell you. Thank you. [[Applause, bustle in the hall]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u338	Thank you, sir. I inform you and all of you that when the microphones are on, there is no need to shout because you can hear very well. [[But it's a shame you're not paying attention to the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister is screaming more.]] I know that the Member is outraged, I know, I know, I have accepted that.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u339	But I already said... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] I have a loud voice...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u340	Mr... Exactly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u341	...so there's a positive direction...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u342	Okay, sir, but I'm asking you to leave the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u343	There's no penalty for speaking loudly in the Rules of Procedure. Unless it is?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u344	There it is, Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u345	Is it?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u346	...because you've exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u347	Okay, thank you. [[Applause]] Thank you kindly, sir. And I ask you to leave the platform. Once again I ask all as outraged as Mr Protasiewicz to consider that when microphones are on, even if they are as outraged as Mr Protasiewicz, you can still hear very well without raising your voice. I would like to ask the floor of Małgorzata Zwierzan.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u348	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the government's draft Act on the support of pregnant women and their families. The aim of the proposed solutions is to regulate comprehensive support for pregnant women and their families, with particular emphasis on complicated pregnant women and in the event of maternity failure. The forms of support shall include: ensuring access to information on support solutions, prenatal diagnostics and the possibility of giving birth in hospital in the third degree of reference. Families are also expected to have access to broad guidance on family support solutions, overcoming difficulties in caring and raising a child, access to social and occupational rehabilitation and health care services. Within the framework of these benefits, the family will receive medical, nursing, psychological and access to rehabilitation. Care under the Act will be implemented by domestic hospices, as well as in special cases by stationary hospices, as well as in the care plant. The Act introduces special preferences for families with children who have been diagnosed with severe and irreversible disability or incurable illness that threatens their lives. They relate to the use of healthcare services and pharmaceutical services provided in pharmacies, palliative and hospice care of children outside the order. The bill is a very important step towards changes that facilitate the daily functioning of families with children who have been diagnosed with severe and irreversible disability or incurable illness threatening their lives, arising during the prenatal period of the child's development or during childbirth. No one needs to be convinced that support for women in complicated pregnancy and families with disabled children is needed. During today's work in the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, there were many allegations that the aid was too small that the project was understated that it was too fast to consult non-governmental organisations. I agree that the public consultation, as well as the consultation with the most interested families who raise such children, would be desirable. However, it must be stressed that the project is to help those who expect this assistance as soon as possible and fill the gap that has existed over the years. It's true, it's $4,000. PLN offered one-time assistance is not much, but it is more than anyone has ever offered to these families. Besides, I am convinced that the government's announcements that this is only the first stage of helping these particularly experienced families are true. I hope that the expected changes, changes in the whole family system, will be staged by the Law and Justice Government. It welcomes what the Minister of Labour and Social Policy announces, that the project is widely consulted between the resorts, so its final shape will comprehensively address all the needs of children with disabilities. Projectors stress that an individual approach to the needs of individual families, which is to be provided by a specially trained family assistant, will be of particular importance. A very important solution is undoubtedly the creation of an informant on the rights under this project. Due to the fact that the contested law is to support Polish families, giving them a sense of security and allowing them better protection of the state, the Polish Free and Solidarni Circle asks for further proceding of the bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u349	Thank you, Member. As foretold, we will proceed to point 12 after the end of point 11. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Request for a vote of distrust towards the Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska (prints Nos 934 and 967). I ask the representative of Rafał Grupiński's applicants to provide a justification for the proposal. You're welcome, sir. [[Two minutes off, Marshal.]] There isn't? Two minutes... You're an MP. Do you, uh... You're welcome. I understand he'll support you. [[But the Member was waiting for the Prime Minister to come in.]] Does Mr Grupiński need more time? Then I'll announce a technical recess. [[No, no.]] You're welcome, sir. [[There's no president? Mr. Chairman where?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u350	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! It was my duty to submit a motion for a vote of distrust to Minister Anna Zalewska, Minister of National Education. This is an important proposal, not an accident, a proposal slightly different from usual political requests for a vote of distrust towards the ministers of the various governments that we have seen in this Chamber. [[Finally, a motion without a chance.]] The situation in which I come to argue why the vote of distrust is necessary and why I will be asking the High House to vote out this vote of distrust is because the matter concerns a very important thing - national education, it concerns the education system, it concerns children and young people, and the consequences of any major systemic changes in the national education system do not affect one or two year olds of children or young people, but sometimes on generations. If this were a proposal for compromising actions e.g. Minister Szyszka, who cuts out the Bialowieza Forest... [[But the lies are. Those are lies.]] ...or Minister Macierewicz, who compromises us in the international arena and leads to the deconstruction of the Polish army... [[Voice from the room: Another lie.]] ...it would be quite obvious and who knows that such proposals will not have to appear in this House yet. On the other hand, national education is an extremely important and extremely serious problem. I will remind you that the history of Polish education has beautiful cards, starting with the court of Bolesław Chrobre, eight future saints who created the intellectual background of the then Polish ruler. The golden age we're talking about, what did it come from? In the 15th century, the entire system of parish schools was built throughout the Crown and put into education. [[Yeah, it was built because there was no Platform.]] What was... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Please don't disturb me.]] [[Please pay attention to Mr Suski.]] You'd be surprised, sir, when there was a platform in the world. It is on the pages of our history, the Committee on National Education, an extremely important body, whose work was completed only by the Minister of Education Stanisław Kostka Potocki, when it comes to the so-called. general education, primary education. There were reforms in the interwar period, and in 1932 the reform started in the 1920s was finally completed, a system of 7 years of primary school, 4 years of middle school and 2 or 3 years of high school was created. It was so-called. Small and big M.A. Even at the time of communism there was a careful preparation for reform when in 1961 these 8-year-olds were introduced today in primary school, 8-year elementary school and 4 year high school, the first year that entered this system, fell into the school year 1966/1967, and so after a few years. This time we are dealing with the express action of the Minister and Government Mrs Beata Szydło, we are acting, in our opinion, irresponsible and bearing enormous potential losses both in education and in the upbringing of the young generation. Professor Janusz Tazbir in his numerous historical essays quoted such an anecdote in which he referred to the famous principle, the Cicero maxim about history as a teacher of life, that this group - this applies to some extent to all of us, don't be afraid - which applies least to this maxim, are politicians. And he quoted this example, which seems to me, while maintaining the proportions, appropriate to today's situation. Namely, a group of esteemed professors in 1939, in March, decided to go on the basis of a scientific community to President Ignacy Mościcki to warn him that the situation of Poland is really at risk, that Poland is in danger and that it would be worth bringing representatives of opposition to the government or at least to the National Defence Council. What did Ignacy Mościcki say? That everything is wonderful, that he is in great control of the situation, Poland is safe, and they say, his eyes and ears tell him. For this Prof. Stanisław Estreicher, who was one of those delegates, said: here we are very different, the facts look quite different, apparently your eyes don't see well, and your ears don't hear well. I would like to say that to some extent, while maintaining the proportions, it is the same today. The Minister believes that everything is perfect, that the reform will be carried out quickly, that everything is prepared, that there is money. No, it's not. The Minister's eyes don't see well, and the Minister's ears don't hear well. I'm afraid so. [[Applause]] I want to approach today's proposal in a more substantive, not political way, because in many appeals parents, teachers, self-government people - we can read this, among others. also on the pages of the Government Legislative Centre - they call for this problem not to be treated politically, but above all to think about children, young people, teachers and parents. It seems to me that one of our greatest weaknesses - here I am talking about the Republic of Poland as our community, for which we are jointly responsible, both governing today and opposition, because this is today's agreement of forces - that the weakness of the Republic of Poland has always been the impermanence of institutions. Often it wasn't our fault. It was the weakness of the Republic of Poland... [[Get to the point!]] ...but it was very often the fault of partitions, it was the fault of two world wars, it was the fault of communist governments in Poland when it was proved that Poland existed for 20 and 30 years, wasn't it? Do you remember the celebration of the 30th anniversary? Polish People's Republic, such settlements were created because there was no ancient history, because the former Poland did not exist. Today we are dealing with a situation in some sense repeating past mistakes, i.e. Only 17 years ago - from a generation's point of view it's really not a long time - there was middle school. After years of work of teachers, cooperation between parents and children, this middle school became one of the best business cards of Polish education. So? And they'll be eliminated. And the sustainability of the institution ends, it would seem, just entered in the Polish educational landscape. Why? You can't really find that out. You can't really understand... [[Voice from the room: But you can see.]] ...because there's no substantive reason, there's no pedagogical reason, there's no scientific reason to make such a change today. There is always much to improve in the education system, there is much to improve in the education systems, and the Member could go through better schools when it comes to education, [[Applause]] But that doesn't mean you have to disarm and ruin the entire school system. There is no reason, there is no deeper reason for such action. It's just... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... For me, as a cultural historian, this kind of government action by Prime Minister Beata Szydło cannot be defended in any way. In such a situation simply in no way: logical, substantive cannot be built justification why this level of schools is suddenly to be eliminated and is to return in fact, however to call it, the PRL order: 8 years of primary school, 4 years of high school. The work involved in the development of junior high schools, their equipment, the equipment of the studios in these junior high schools, the preparation of teachers, training them to work with young people growing up, the creation of teams of teachers who have learned to work with these young people - breaking it down today is really a great harm in raising the young generation. [[Applause]] What's more, the way it's done... Even in those opinions, which are less critical, although there are few such opinions in terms of different social or local bodies, there is such justification that if this reform had entered from the fourth grade of primary school, after initial education and the first year of non-secondary education, it would have been the one who would have gone to class IV next year, and it would have been a process, everyone would have been able to prepare for it in some way. But in a situation where suddenly, in 1 year, everything is changed, it just doesn't make any deeper sense. And what is born out of such haste? [[Get to the point!]] What is born of such haste? First of all, in the numerous justifications that we have heard, among others. In the Committee on Education, Science and Youth, on how this middle school is badly functioning, how young people are aggressive in them, various arguments were chosen here, which is incompatible with research, for example, of the Polish Cities Association on the level of aggression among young people... From all of this, teachers' teams who have given their whole heart to middle school work today are rated as the worst teams. [[Voice from the room: Don't lie.]] Secondly, young people who go to middle school learn that these schools will be eliminated, that they are in schools that are no longer needed. These children will actually function in schools for the next three years, which are being liquidated. [[Applause]] What educational significance does this have for these young people? Moreover, please remember that from year to year, it is calculated by numerous municipalities, the number of hours involved will decrease, which will be performed by individual teachers, i.e. teachers, who, for example. he will have 28 hours of Polish middle school next year, in 2 years he will have only 8 hours. He's gonna be looking for another job? Is he gonna drop out of junior high so he can get a full-time job somewhere or not? Maybe he'll leave these kids to provide for his family? Maybe he will. [[Darkness.]] [[Facts, not blindness.]] That's the reality, that's the reality. That's what they're listing in their official letters, sir, which you can read at the Government Legislating Center if you go to the website. In my opinion, one thing has been left out of all this by the Minister - and automatically by the Prime Minister's government, although we have heard here various reservations of the Minister of Science and Higher Education, for example, on the way in which this reform was implemented - namely what was our maxim and what was very disliked by the Minister of Education and Education in 1981. I was on a negotiating team like this. new programs for schools. There were different people, from Dr. Anna Radziwiłł, through Stefan Starczewski, to Prof. Maria Janion or Prof. Bożena Chrzątowska. There we put one maxim as a basic one, namely the school is supposed to serve the child. He's supposed to serve the baby. [[Applause]] Not ideology, not political plans, not realising your own interests or visions. He's supposed to serve the baby. It was that basic maxim. And with this maxima, I think the minister has unfortunately broken up over the last few months, pushing for this change. The famous doctor's maxim, Primum non nocere, seems very timely here. First of all, don't hurt me. That's the thing, actually. We would have to appeal: for the Minister to reconsider his decision. Perhaps this motion for a vote of distrust will encourage this kind of reflection, that the minister is above all Minister of Nature, not Minister - Master. It is a matter of serving others, not imposing your will. Of course, we have signals, like the last signal, quite delicate, but we are accustomed to the fact that such signals have not yet been made, by President Andrzej Duda, that perhaps the voices of the public opinion, parents, teachers will be taken into account in the future law. Today, however, we must decide who will continue to be responsible for the fate of national education. In our opinion, it cannot be Minister Anna Zalewska. [[Applause]] Ww. reasons. How is the program being prepared? How do you prepare the basics of the program? How are the textbooks to be prepared? How can you start building a 7th class program instead of I and IV? How can a consistent curriculum be built in this way? This is a question, I think, too many points, for those who think they are able to manage Polish school well. Please remember that in many schools - in many schools - in rural schools there will be a huge problem. I would like to remind you that in many primary schools, because of your decision to withdraw six-year-olds from schools, preschool branches were established. [[It's what my parents wanted.]] It is often the case that in these rural schools, these are 6-class schools, and there are pre-school units. There are nearly 40% of schools in the countryside where there are preschool units. When class VII and class VIII enter, there will be no place for kindergarteners. One of our greatest achievements in these famous repeated by you as a mantra of 8 years... [[Yeah, it was eight years old.]] ...there was an increase in the level of colonization in kindergartens, from 20 percent to nearly 70%. [[Applause]] So many rural children have been included in the pre-school programme. [[Voice from the hall: By taking a six-year-old to school.]] This is under threat today by your changes, the consequences of which, somewhere far in the field, the Minister does not see at all. This is a basic problem. I will only mention one passage from a number of letters addressed to the Minister in this regard. It is just a letter of "Solidarity," a trade union "Solidarity" from Dzierzoniów. Let the activists of Dzierzoniów forgive me for calling them back, I do not want to harm them with this speaker, but this letter shows how in the lens problems all municipalities will face: Our analysis shows that in the school year 2017/2018 59 teachers may lose their jobs. It may happen that the number of teachers made redundant will increase. In the village Dzierżoniów there are three school and pre-school teams, one primary school with pre-school units and one secondary school. There is no way of placing additional branches in primary school buildings. These units will be placed in the building of the current junior high school. The number of pupils in four schools is so small that four branches of Class VII will not be opened, but only two. Primary school teachers will also lose their jobs or their jobs will be reduced. Two small primary schools are likely to be transferred to the building of the current junior high school team, which will result in further redundancies. At the same time, the school of sports championship will cease to exist with the end of Junior High School No. 3 and the boarding school will be terminated. [[The kids won't be here, the schools won't be there. It's gonna be okay.]] What's more, what are we gonna do with the well-equipped halls, what are we gonna do about the buildings, what are we gonna do about the modern school fields? There's also concern about the fact, and I quote... [[Voice from the room: Don't scare people.]] ...that the middle school of Sibir's exiles will disappear, two in our territory. Sibiracs, people leaving, enjoying cooperation with schools, participate in school celebrations, fund school banners. After years of silence and lies about them, they can finally speak openly about their fate. This is the problem I raised at the school board meeting, talking about the schools of Tischner, which are several dozen, and asking my brother to sleep. Fr. Józef Tischner. What happens to his middle school, his traditions, his souvenirs? Who's gonna take over? Class VII, VIII in some elementary school department? What's gonna happen to it? [[Applause]] This is the tradition you interrupt, these are the things that will suddenly be cut by the fact that you are violently introducing this reform, not evolutionaryly - rape, at once, immediately, without program, without textbooks, without good preparation, without respect for the feelings of children and young people who learn in these middle schools, not to mention teachers. [[Applause]] It seems that many of the problems that I have raised here, which concern mainly children and young people, cannot be supported by financial issues either. I mentioned this by quoting one of the numerous writings showing the difficulties that individual municipalities will face. But please remember that such changes will also cause huge spending in individual local governments. These expenditures in my city today, Poznań, are estimated - including, of course, the costs related to the change in the case of six-year-olds - at about PLN 40/50 million by the end of next year. This assumes that 20% of teachers in Poznań schools will have to be fired. This is the scale of things that will affect specific people, specific environments and will result in powerful expenditures that the Ministry is not able to cover in any way, for example. 300 million. He can't, because there aren't billions, at least 1.5 billion, in the budget. Finally, it is a matter of returning to the old school model. Adolescents who felt appreciated in middle school - because they go to secondary school, they are older, they go to a well-equipped school, interesting, bilingual, sporting, artistic school, depending on how these schools were profiled - in fact, they go back to primary school. I'm showing it as a sort of process, although of course it's not going to work out that way. [[Maybe we can talk about regional junior high, not about rich people.]] [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[If someone doesn't understand, they don't have to listen.]] That's a problem too. After all, the famous action "Save the little ones you supported" was against combining 13-year-olds with six-year-olds, and now 15-year-olds are going to be six. - and seven-year-olds and no one seems to mind. [[They requested a referendum on the liquidation of junior high schools.]] We have 7684 secondary schools in Poland, 3100 of them are schools, self-schools. [[Over 2,000.]] They'll all be destroyed. [[Transformation.]] That will be the decision of the current government. Transforming these schools into primary schools... [[High school.]] ... really isn't something that, I think, parents, children and teachers are expecting today. [[Look at the polls.]] Please note that in many towns there will be a dilemma, where to bring children, in small rural communities. Which school will survive? In large cities, larger towns will be the issue of new circuits, it will be the question of where children will go, where they will be assigned, how these circuits will be divided, how numerous classes will be. These are questions you don't answer. The school, as Andrzej Frycz-Modrzewski used to say, is the parent of the best rights. They are born in discussion - this discussion that the school is giving birth to. You don't respect the rule of law, which you see almost every day, because almost every day you present a new law on the Constitutional Court, which is essentially to limit the tribunal to a minimum, to the facade... [[Get to the point!]] ...like facades were institutions of all kinds in the times of the Polish People's Republic. [[Heir to this ideology.]] But the question is whether the Polish school will remain a school that has so far raised its level. Well, our motion for a vote of distrust follows, among other things, our request for a vote of distrust. because of the belief that such action, so violent, without a program, without good textbooks, without thinking, without counting costs, is no guarantee of further improvement of the quality of teaching in Polish schools. On the contrary, this quality will just ruin it for a long time. The effort of teachers in this area to save this level will have to be really huge, because there will be temporary programs, temporary textbooks, there will be a program written back, after the seventh grade you will have to write a program for the sixth grade and then for the fifth grade. [[No.]] What's that even... How can national education be planned in such a way as to address the problem of education? [[Chaos in your head, chaos in your school.]] The strength of the nation depends on the quality of education, the strength of the state. [[Applause]] That's basic. Who likes who, but you should be aware of it. [[Voice from the room: 8 years.]] But such an approach to changing the education system does not really serve for society to benefit fully from the fruitage of science... [[Especially in these villages and small towns.]] ...from the fruits of knowledge, to be in an interesting and interesting discourse from which good social policies, good policies, those in which we are taking part, will take on good governance of the state. Badly prepared changes simply must have fatal consequences. [[That's why you lost the election.]] This is simply the logic of events, which is why we are very strict about this kind of behaviour. It's worth considering, there aren't two laws in the Seym yet. [[What does this have to do with the Minister?]] [[It has to do with the fact that they lost the election.]] It would be best if they didn't enter the Sejm. Let us hope that you, the Prime Minister, Mr Kaczyński, will, however, want to reflect on this issue and stop this completely unnecessary pseudoreform, unnecessary confusion at the Polish school and stop the possibility of enormous stress in children. I was talking about this, quoting the example of President Ignacy Mościcki, I was talking about the eyes that were not seeing, the ears that were hearing badly. This is the case in the famous book of Andrzej Frycz Modrzewski's school, where he cites Modrzewski's example of a Kuman donkey. It's probably some kind of reference to the so-called. Stupid benches. A Cumanian donkey dressed up in a lion's skin and scared people, but his ears betrayed him. Ladies and gentlemen, you are not fooling this reform of the Republic of Poland and its citizens, you are not fooling teachers and children or parents. This is a poorly prepared reform, unnecessary to anyone... [[Voice from the room: You'll bore the room.]] ...and in this sense unnecessary and fatal reform, in this sense there is a whole mistake of your thinking - I am talking about the Law and Justice, about the Republic of Poland and its future. [[Applause]] If you are bored, and I hear such voices, talking about problems of Polish school, I feel sorry for you. I propose more respect not for me, I don't need respect, but for those who listen to us... [[Listen to your parents.]] ...who really want a good Polish school. [[Listen to your parents.]] I recommend to the High House a motion for a vote of distrust to be prepared... [[Talk to ordinary people, not elites.]] ...and you should try talking to ordinary people, parents. [[You guys are talking.]] [[Not with the rich.]] Let your ears finally open up to the voices of those who want to raise and educate their own children, because you can't hear them. You see only your project, as it used to be, and only your own ideas. Really, asinus ad lyram. [[Into the blind bench.]] Really. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u351	The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1a Only the President of the Council of Questions are not acceptable as a separate element of the debate. And of course, Mrs Marzena Machalek - the opinion of the committee. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Marzena Machalek will be the first to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u352	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! First of all, I will present the opinion of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on a parliamentary motion for a vote of distrust towards the Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska. After consulting the Sejm Bureau, the Speaker of the Sejm, in accordance with the Sejm's Rules of Procedure, sent a proposal to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on 20 October for an opinion. The Committee on Education, Science and Youth considered the proposal on 2 November and decided to give a negative opinion. [[Applause]] And now I'm going to move on to presenting the position of the Law and Justice Club on a vote of distrust. I will start with a few reflections, referring to the presence of the applicant's representative. I have the impression that Mr Grupiński is hiding behind the Committee on National Education. You're talking about generations, but you're not talking about how Mr. Donald Tusk did his politics here and now. Where were you when you trashed Polish school and Polish education for eight years? [[Applause]] [[What kind of demolishment?]] You go back to 200 years ago, and you forget that for eight years you were able to reform Polish education and you destroyed it. [[Applause]] [[Marzen Okła-Drewnowicz: That's why we did it...]] You've improved preschool rates by forcefully pushing six-year-olds into schools. [[Applause]] You've made a motion. The one that hangs on the seym site is chaotic, with language errors. [[A linguist.]] [[Mr. Marshal, but time is unlimited?]] It's based on false premises, harmful, but most of all dangerous, because you want to keep this state of education that you've been leading to for eight years, [[Applause]] The state of chaos, the state where you didn't listen to your parents, you didn't listen to teachers. [[He speaks for the club.]] [[Time, Marshal, for the club.]] Let me remind you that there are over 60% parents and over 50% in favour of education reform Poles in general. [[But it's time.]] Where are you now? [[Voices from the O.R.: In the O.R.]] Where do you listen to Poles now? You still think you're smarter than them. [[Voice from the room: Of course it is.]] Now let's get the facts straight. Let's move on. The conclusion is based on false grounds, so let's get the facts straight. Education reform has been prepared since Law and Justice announced its electoral agenda. The Poles voted in favour of education reform, which included the end of middle school. [[Applause]] Education reform is well prepared and will be implemented slowly, gradually, in line with educational cycles. This is the next truth you forget in your motion. Why are we bringing her in? After 8 years, it takes effort and effort to fix the Polish school by listening to the voices of parents and teachers. [[Why are they protesting?]] What are we bringing in? We restore proper general education, we restore general education that you have destroyed. [[Applause]] We strengthen primary schools by consolidating them with middle school. We don't eliminate middle school, we consolidate it with primary schools. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Those are the facts. We are preparing decent schools, which we call industry schools, which will actually prepare young people for the labour market and not like now - produce unemployed people. You're talking about the fact that there's no preparation for a financial reform. There it is. Nearly 2 billion have been prepared for education reform: 500 million to prepare for 100 schools reform, almost 1.5 billion for 6-year-old children in kindergartens. [[And where's that in the bill?]] You're scaring the teachers. You're scaring teachers like you scared teachers when we turned your pseudo-reform into a school age reduction. You said the teachers would lose their jobs. So? Almost 2,000. The teachers have a job because of it. Those are the facts. [[Applause]] Let me remind you, as a result of the reversal of your harmful pseudoreform of 2,000. The teachers got a job. It's the same now. Teachers won't lose their jobs, but they're gonna get it, because thanks to our reform, we're gonna stop uncontrollably firing teachers, we're gonna stop uncontrollable graduations, we're gonna save high school. That's the truth. [[Applause]] [[The difference between wanting and making.]] There's one more thing I want to say. President Gunman protested against junior high 17 years ago. It's gun middle school tonight. [['Cause it worked.]] I'm gonna go back to the state from over a year ago when the election was. Imagine that President Gunner signed a coalition agreement with the United Left. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And what was on the United Left program? [[Voice from the room: Eight-year-olds.]] Eliminating middle school. [[Applause]] [[We didn't know you were with the left.]] Where's the concern for teachers? Where's the concern for the Polish school? It's just a political game. Today, they protest not for teachers, but against reform, because it is implemented by law and justice. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u353	Thank you, Member. Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u354	I want to say last but not least, Mr. Marshal, that the child is the most important thing to us. We care about teachers, but for us, the baby is the most important thing. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[A voice from the room: Really?]] And that kid from the big city, and that kid from the little one. [[Well, we'll see.]] Education is important. The idea is to give the child an education so that he can find himself in professional life and in social roles. I'm looking at you here. You have children, grandchildren, maybe some will. It's important that every child has a chance at a good school... [[We have other children.]] [[One minute for everyone.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u355	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u356	...for a good education, and it's not just about kids whose parents can afford tutoring. [[Member King Gajewska-Płochocka: One minute, we have more by one minute, remember.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u357	Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u358	That's why we're going to vote against this motion...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u359	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u360	...which is absurd, unnecessary, and brings chaos. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u361	Thank you, Member. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Elżbieta Gapinska. [[Member of King Gajewska-Płochock: 1.5 minutes, Marshal. Remember.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u362	Thank you very much, Marshal. First of all, I would like to point out that the Member has exceeded her speaking time by 1.5 minutes. I hope that the Civic Platform Club will have this chance as well.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u363	Trust me.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u364	Every reform, including this one, should have a substantive and not a political objective, as is the case in this case. There are no substantive reasons for this reform. It's the other way around. PISA research puts our education at the top of the European agenda. We have moved a dozen places in European and global rankings. It can be said that we have achieved educational success through the middle schools on which you voted, by a large group of your fellow Members who are currently in this Chamber. For 17 years, middle school has developed suitable methods and forms of youth work. Teaching work, educational work, the ability to deal with young people of this age makes the junior high school judged by graduates as a place friendly to them, for their comprehensive development. This is thanks to Polish teachers. Minister, why eliminate something that works well? [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir!]] [[It can work better.]] [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: But it doesn't work well.]] You are constantly presenting your yearning for the Polish People's Republic in your activities. School can't be a field of constant revolution. You thought so a few years ago, Minister. [[Applause]] Children, parents, teachers don't want an educational experiment, and they don't want a politically motivated experiment. Minister, you are referring to Dr. Jan Herczyński's research, but you have drawn the wrong conclusions. For it never suggested the liquidation of junior high schools. You insist on the reform, although many doubts have also been raised by colleagues from your government, and lately even the President. This is the worst, or actually completely unprepared education reform in the history of education in Poland. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: No, it is not.]] You're acting chaotic. No software base that's actually written on the knee, no textbooks - you can't write a good textbook in such a short time... [[You wrote it yourself.]] ...no consultation - a reform introducing gymnasium, let me remind you, has been consulted for 2 years, and you say that there have been debates in 16 voivodships, but that this reform that you have introduced has not been discussed once. [[Voice from the room: Lying.]] The Minister is avoiding meetings on this matter. For example, you have not been to Gdansk recently at a meeting with local government officials or in Warsaw at a meeting with school heads and educational staff. [[Member of Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: former Minister. Don't talk about it.]] There is no consent from a large group of parents who join together to protest, I quote, to the educator that the Minister proposes to their children. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: The platform was founded by a political show.]] There are spontaneous groups such as the Parents' Initiative to Stop Edukosmar, NOT for school chaos or parents against education reform. Teachers protest - not only middle school teachers, but also the Polish Teachers' Union, the management of education and finally, ladies and gentlemen, are protesting the local governments to which you want to shift the financial and political costs of this reform, because parents will complain not to you, creators, but to self-governments who will have to implement this reform and fire teachers, protest authorities dealing with education. [[But you won't be able to make it.]] Many critical words in this matter were made by the author of the middle school reform, Prof. Handke, whom it is difficult to suspect of political sympathy to my political camp. You have repeatedly referred to the sovereign, so accept that the sovereign does not want this education reform. [[How do we know that?]] In the school year 2018, a double yearbook will enter the school. You will take away the chance of a good education for many children. Minister, where is the subject of this reform, the child, in this whole process? [[Mrs Gajewska will not make it.]] Minister Zalewska does not listen to any arguments. You didn't calm us down with your comments at the school board meeting. You have not reassured trade unionists, local government officials, and you have certainly not reassured your parents and children watching yesterday's meeting, especially those who come from small towns and villages, because they are the ones most affected by this reform. You're deaf to any arguments. You're not looking at the devastation of your Polish school. [[The Member is blind, you can't see what's going on in middle school.]] You would like to sign up as a reformer of Polish education, and I am afraid and I say it with great regret that you have a chance to become a pest on an unprecedented scale. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Yesterday, you committed a language lapsus saying you needed 13 years to finish this education system. Let's hope those aren't prophetic words. [[Applause]] Finally, a passage from the Association of Middle School Directors on the proposed reform of education: We have legitimate concerns that the Polish school after this reform will become ossified, old-fashioned and non-fulfilling... [[But not non-college.]] ...the needs of students, e.g. because of not following them, the development of their interests. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: One minute for Kinga.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u365	Ladies and gentlemen! I'm gonna say as the person who graduated middle school, and on behalf of the people who graduated middle school, that research shows that we're against reform. We will not let ourselves be convinced that we are the result of a failed reform, because it was us and our generation who introduced Poland to the top countries of Europe from the last places. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] In the Seym we have a dozen Members who were in junior high. In fact, most of them are law and justice. Here I appeal, for example. To Minister Chefnernacker: talk to me and don't let anyone tell you that we are the result of some worse reform. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! If that's not enough for you, then look at Mr. Misiewicz. Ladies and gentlemen, he's a middle school kid. This man is 26 years old... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Tragedy.]] ...and he got a cross...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u366	Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u367	...has received a golden cross for the merits of the country's defense. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u368	Thank you very much, Madam President. And so, as part of your understanding, you received... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Thank your friend who's been running out of time. Please, Mr Tomasz Swallowa.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u369	Dear Marshal, Dear Prime Minister, Minister! For starters, to the president: chapeau bass, because there was indeed a good justification and the book was left behind, but I will pick it up later. How glad I am, ladies and gentlemen, how you are arguing as socialists Believers and unbelievers... [[Socialists believe and non-believers...]] [[It's a broken record.]] [[Voice from the room: eats, eats, eats.]] ...about education eats, eats, eats. You've all been bouncing around, ladies and gentlemen, because you only want to centrally control the Polish school, and most of you... [[Voice from the hall: Each municipality should have its own system?]] Ladies, listen to me. I didn't interrupt you, and it's bad for you to interrupt, as you know. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: Oh!]] Sir... [[Voice from the room: It's not the bill.]] Sir, will you please calm down? [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Mr. Marshal, there's a parliamentarian who's hyperactive, even though he's after eight years of elementary school.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u370	I know that, sir. I know that very well. [[Joy in the Chamber]] I ask this overactive parliamentarians to calm down. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u371	Ladies and gentlemen, in my opinion, as regards the vote of distrust towards Minister Zalewska, there must, of course, be assessed for 12 months. And here actually there were a lot of positive changes, with which I completely agree, concerning, among others. High school, six-year-olds. We've been dealing, to be honest, with the first real-life public consultation. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Unfortunately, there were negative changes: increasing the role of curators, hitting domestic education. That's not good. You still don't want to understand the concept of modern education. This modern education of the 21st century described Ken Robinson very beautifully. It's the so-called. organic education. What's this? [[From the ground up.]] No, not at all, sir. Organic soil is not necessarily an organic education. Ladies and gentlemen, there is an age difference. This must be pointed out, but you, ladies and gentlemen, are arguing about the issue of middle school. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, you haven't spoken to the public at all, you haven't proposed that the sovereign listen, which means you haven't proposed a referendum. If you were chosen in the JOWs, you would certainly listen. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: We prefer to give this money to schools.]] This is our conclusion, the conclusion of the Kukiz movement. Carry out, ladies and gentlemen, a referendum on the middle school issue, since it divides Poles so much. Ladies and gentlemen, are you going to improve the quality of education by changing the model from 6 to 3 to 8+4? [[Yeah, definitely.]] I know there's one graduate here who graduated from elementary school and junior high at the same time, but I don't think it's a good model and example. [[He finished elementary school.]] One said he was done. This is one of the last phenomenal statements of one of the party leaders. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: 4 years old.]] Yeah, he went to high school for four years. The quality of education, ladies and gentlemen, is not proved by the PISA tests that you so often rely on, but by good staff, good foundations, good programme, good textbooks, competitiveness. In the meantime, ladies and gentlemen, the facts must finally be accepted, and the facts are that 60/70% Young people go to tutoring. [[Exactly, high quality.]] [[But they're the ones who can afford it.]] Literally. This is not an isolated case, because last Saturday, ladies and gentlemen, I met with the Sejm of Children and Youth, with 90 people... [[Game in the O.R.]] I would ask, really, there are various measures that are advertised to cool down emotions. Ladies and gentlemen, the representatives of the Sejm of Children and Youth spoke about actual problems. There I heard a beautiful sentence: I took more from this meeting than from three sessions of the Children's and Youth Sejm. Do you know why? Because we started listening to these young people. That's the problem. Do we have a weakness here? Of course, there are many weaknesses in the Minister's project, I'm skipping the speed, that's obvious. It's a brutalization case. Mr President said there was no brutalisation. It is, ladies and gentlemen, especially in middle school. Unfortunately, Konin's example in the last two days shows us this very well. Or, ladies and gentlemen, is this about changing these textbooks, the basics of the program? These are hundreds of millions of zlotys, unfortunately, and parents will have to pay for them. Of course, let PSL and Platform not be happy, because it was, as I recall, so-called. design of a free textbook, which consequently cost the Polish taxpayer probably three times more expensive. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem of the liquidation of junior high schools. You have not noticed that all schools are being reorganized. Perhaps that's what this is about, because all schools from a legal point of view will be reorganized. [[New management.]] Maybe it's about the staff exchange. I'm sure there'll be layoffs. We can't avoid them. As a citizen's movement, the only citizen's movement in this Seym... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Do you take the money to the foundation?]] Allow me, Mr. Marshal, to extend for at least a few seconds. ...we design that there will be no change in education. Your dispute will be barren until you appeal to the referendum. There will be no such change until we introduce an educational bonus, competitiveness in education, support also for non-public education, freedom to choose programmes. I know it sounds bad to you, to every socialist it sounds bad. It sounds very good to a freeman. Let's trust our parents. [[Voice from the room: Time!]] Just like parents have to fix a lot of systemic mistakes by sending their children to tutoring mass-paid money... [[What's the mass? What kind of research?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u372	Mr President, I would like you to make a point.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u373	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u374	Mr President, you have exceeded your time by almost a minute, so go ahead.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u375	Ladies and gentlemen, now my relationship, the club's relationship, of course, the Kukiz Club15. The club as usual... [[He's got two jobs.]] ...recommends, ladies, hold... [[Voice from the room: Yeah.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u376	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u377	...with a motion for a vote of distrust and appeal... [[As part of a free program.]] ...about the middle school referendum. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[What absolute wisdom.]] [[As usual, they say one thing and the other vote.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u378	Thank you. And I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer. [[Give it a rest.]] [[Like freedom, it's freedom, sir, don't limit freedom.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u379	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! Minister! Mr. Marshal! Responsibility and humility - these are the favourite words of the Minister of Education Anna Zalewska, only that the Ministry's proposals and projects lack precisely these elements. Responsibility. Really? Where is the responsibility when 10 months before the reform is implemented there is no basis for programming and, consequently, the textbooks have not been written? Where is the responsibility when a change, instead of introducing it for children entering the education system, is introduced inside, for children who are currently in the IV, V, VI grade of primary school? Where's the responsibility when a parent of a child who's in IV, V, VI, isn't sure where he's gonna be studying his kid next year in which building? Where's the responsibility when the municipalities don't know how to design a school network, where to get money to adapt buildings and check-in for teachers? Where is the responsibility when the minister is afraid to say that even 30% of junior high teachers can lose their jobs? Here greetings also from nature teachers from primary schools. Where finally responsibility, when we know that in 2019 two years - 700,000. Instead of $350,000. students - will go to high schools, technicians and professional schools in parallel? The Minister sees no problem and is pleased that the quality of recruitment will improve for one year. What do the Minister care about children who lose their dreams, lose their chances of getting into their dream school? That's not your problem. Humility. For what? Where is humility if reform is not based on any substantive basis? Lack of support in PISA tests, analysis of the Educational Research Institute or opinions of university experts. Where is humility when there is no broad discussion with the teaching community in terms of reform? Where is humility when even the experts referred to by the ministry oppose this bad change? Where is humility when the Minister does not see that local governments, teachers and parents are protesting, but we have a nervous search all over the world for research which would show in advance Minister Zalewska's thesis? The Ministry refers, for example, to research from education experts rather than research. for the reports of the NIK and to no one the American and British studies, which were created in the 1990s. It was a quote. And the only argument we hear regularly is 60%. Citizens are opposed to middle school, we promised in the campaign, we eliminate it. I do not ask how many Poles are opposed to high taxes. Or should the PiS ask, and then finally reduce VAT from 23% to 22% and raise the amount free? You promised that in the campaign, too. Humility is listening to scientists, experts, conversations with teachers and parents, not just those from the PiS, analyzing objective research and watching education change in the world. In the actions of the Minister of Education, there is no such humility, but there is a shoe for those who have a majority of the Seym and can vote everything out. Who's gonna stop them? The question is, why this irresponsible and full of shoes bad change. When we see the figure of an expert in upbringing to family life, the answer seems clear: an ideological school in line with the vision of the world of PiS. School for the 19th century rather than the 21st century. [[That's bullshit again. What are you talking about, Member?]] Chaos for students, lost yearbooks, problems of local governments. This will bring a bad change in the Ministry of Education. Bad touch for education. [[Your boss went to middle school for four years.]] We do not know what experience Minister Zalewska has in conducting projects, but when you look at how he does it, it seems that none. No one with design knowledge would dare launch such a big project in a few months without public consultation. These consultations, which were, are simply funny: without a clear road map, without security of specialists and without building a favourable majority of parents and teachers. And Minister Zalewska is doing it. If we add to this a lie about consultation - I was on some who were not a discussion about a change of structure, only fraud on a national scale - then we have no doubt: shoe, arrogance and confusion, not responsibility and humility, it is the qualities of the Minister. Therefore, we encourage schools from all over Poland to join the program of defending education. en. Welcome to our website. At the same time, the Modern will support the vote of distrust towards Minister Zalewska. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And greetings from two junior high schools: in Belsk the Big, with whom I met teachers, and in Hungary, from which teachers wrote me a letter. Both of these gymnasiums will cease to exist and their achievements because there is no need for another primary school. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u380	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Piotr Zgorzelski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u381	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! One of the main reasons why we will vote in favour of the appeal of the Minister of National Education as a parliamentary club is that the pseudo-reform he proposes to destroy the existing education system is in fact to undermine the constitutional principle of citizens' confidence in the state. These are our countrymen, citizens of 2.5,000. small homelands, 17 years ago they trusted the government of AWS and supported the uprising of junior high schools as a reference to good teaching patterns of the Second Republic. [[It didn't work out, unfortunately.]] The Poles made a huge effort to meet the requirements of the reform of Minister Handke, who, after years, said that this reform was 100% in substance defends itself, and the arguments of the Minister have been defined by as a search for a hole in the whole, a program change action called an educational crime. So much for Minister Handke. Minister, aren't you regretting the educational, logistical, huge work and energy of hundreds of thousands of people who are passionate about implementing this reform, for which many of your fellow party members, then AWS Members, voted in favour of reforms whose positive effects came in time, because it was necessary for students, parents and teachers to develop a new school environment together to develop effective working methods? And when the expected results were confirmed by the results of international PISA studies or the OECD report, a good change was also achieved by the Polish school. Minister! To date, the Ministry of National Education has not provided a reliable and complete programme basis for every education system. You promised they'd be here by August 25th. They're not here tonight. Who and when did you consult on your ideas for degradation of the educational system? Have you taken into account the negative opinion of the joint government and local government committee? Many voivodship social dialogue councils have also spoken strongly against. You were not seen among local government officials who took the floor last Thursday in Gdansk. [[I was in Gdansk.]] You weren't at an education congress in Warsaw either. It's a pity you didn't find the time for today's social dialogue meeting. Are you finally familiar with the results of the research carried out among local authorities? They show that more than 75% rural municipalities are opposed to the liquidation of secondary schools. [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]] Nearly 9% of them still pay off loans for the construction of secondary buildings. Almost all provide for the need to exempt a significant number of teachers and administrative and service staff, and 25% The municipalities envisage the need to rebuild school buildings. It should be remembered that for investments adapting the educational base to the current system, local governments spent PLN 8 billion. Will somebody make it up to them? For the system to be good, it must be a system that is well evolving, i.e. optimally adapted to the changing social environment. Furthermore, changes to the education system on the scale on which the Minister of Education proposes should first obtain broad public approval, must be evolutionary in nature and must be implemented in a time which allows very good preparation of the components of these changes. None of these conditions are currently met. No one today is able to estimate the educational and financial impact of the announced changes. The fact that the Minister of National Education has not once provided a real amount or source of funding for this fanaberia, which in fact is nothing but experimentation on a living organism, is a source of concern. You promised to compensate the local governments for their educational subsidies. You didn't keep your promises. You promised PLN 1.5 billion in compensation to local governments for losses related to the rejection of the reform of six-year-olds. Unfortunately, there are no resources. The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party requests the presentation of a uniform concept of the functioning of the education system in Poland, developed in the course of the discussion, taking into account the voice of local governments. Only such an approach to change is a guarantee of success in their implementation and implementation. So far we are dealing with a return to the PRL patterns - making changes for the change itself. And at the end of the road you can see only chaos and lower the level of teaching, and that is what we Poles cannot afford. Therefore, [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party will vote for a vote of distrust towards the Minister of National Education. [[Applause]] [[That's a surprise.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u382	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Jack Protasiewicz. I hope, Mr President, that you will be less outraged this time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u383	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Oh, the Prime Minister isn't here. Prime Minister! Minister! It might happen that I'm gonna talk out loud, but that's what I do. The former Prime Minister Tusk was bothered by it, too, but somehow he lived with it, so you'll get used to it. [[Voice from the O.R.: We'll survive.]] But now to the point, ladies and gentlemen, to the point. I will start by saying an apology to Minister Zalewska because yesterday I could not stay to hear her reply to the National Education and Youth Committee because I had an earlier appointment, a really important meeting in public, state matters, and then a long-awaited visit with Professor Najder, who had recently celebrated his 86th birthday. I couldn't hurt the Professor... [[Voice from the room: So? And you drank it?]] ...even if I really wanted to hear from the Minister. But after these apologies, I want to say one thing. This discussion, how I listen to it today, and yesterday I listened a little bit too, about the system. It's like the system is a being in itself. In fact, children are the most important things in education. And I, ladies and gentlemen, agree that it is true that this measure of the quality of PISA education tells us that thanks to the high school of Polish schools and Polish middle-aged children made the biggest leap. Period. But I also say, right, as the father of a boy who is in the sixth grade, exactly next year he was supposed to go to the first grade of junior high. I'll repeat what I said yesterday. My wife and I planned, we chose the middle school he was supposed to go to in Wroclaw, bilingual secondary school with Spanish because he had language skills. [[Ole!]] This middle school is now being eliminated purely theoretically. It will, of course, exist, but it will be called the primary school. And now, instead of going to a new class with new colleagues, he's gonna go, he's gonna go to this seventh grade primary school, a new primary school. Why? Why make such a fuss with my son and thousands of other children? Just to fulfill your promises? The only one you can meet because the French don't go out, the retirement age doesn't go out, the tax-free amount isn't visible, so the only thing you can do is eliminate the middle school. But what is the result? Therefore, my son, because he wants to stay with his friends in the same elementary school and I am unable to explain to him that this is a new school and should go to new children, he will go not to the one we have seen, to which he was already prepared, but to the nearest middle school, because this middle school will be integrated with the primary school to which he is now going, where there is no place for new branches, there is no room for classes VII and VIII. It's just physically it's a good school, a sports school. She's full. There's a second change that parents don't want. And we do not want to force other parents to send their children to school - I do not say: me and my wife, only my son's parents - to the second shift. Therefore, he will walk, let's say, 1 km away, to the building of the current middle school, which was not at all in our plans. He will be taught by those teachers - maybe cool, I don't know them, certainly not specialized in language education - and these teachers will de facto be middle school teachers, only they will be called primary school teachers from 1 September. The head of that middle school will be vice principal of the common primary school. And I'll tell you one thing. At school, subjects can be taught by different teachers, I agree, although I went to 8th grade school, your pattern, and I had one history teacher from fourth to eighth grade... [[So?]] ...and one math teacher, let's say, from the third to the eighth grade and it was okay... [[Voice from the room: Very good.]] ...but I remember I definitely had one tutor. Now, in order for this seventh and eighth grade of my son in this new building to have the same educator, this educator will have to dribble, dribble, dribble during a 10-minute break to run to second school. [[Voice from the room: For health.]] [[Voice from the hall: Sports school.]] For your health, you're right, sir, I'll pass it on to the professor. Just give me your name so she knows who she's gonna e-mail to and thank you for taking care of her health. [[Voice from the room: Very good.]] No, he's got a knee injury lately because it's a sports school, it happens. Okay, but I'll remember. I'll tell you one thing. What do the city officials at Wroclaw tell me? In Wrocław it will cost only 100 million, this change of plaques, signs, stamps. Wrocław is a 500-thousand city, which is at least four or five in Poland. It is Warsaw, there are county cities, there are smaller towns. How much it's gonna cost, I'm gonna ask you again. And that question is serious. 1.5 billion in the air? That's what you're throwing? Just to satisfy one single promise you've made a whole bunch of... [[Don't yell.]] ...not to mention the KGHM tax.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u384	Sir, keep your voice down.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u385	The Prime Minister in Lubin promised that the fossil tax would be abolished, and to this day there is not even a shadow of it. Okay, there's some fake jobs, pretending to be great, reformers -- nothing works at all. On the contrary, you spoil, destroy, harm. And that's what I say on my behalf, on behalf of my parents... [[Voices from the room: Son.]] ...of my son's classmates. Remember that. Remember that.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u386	Thank you, sir. As time goes on, it gets louder and louder. Here you go, Mr Ireneus Gains.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u387	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Minister! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the motion to express a vote of distrust towards the Minister of National Education, Ms Anna Zalewska. I should like to start by regretting that the Civic Platform Group, among which there are so many ministers and Members with long experience in Parliament's benches, has signed a proposal containing such a huge number of invectives and arguments ad personam... [[Voice from the room: Ooh!]] [[This motion is personal.]] ...and not much substance. I must say that in this case, as a parliamentarian, I am ashamed of such a low level of public debate in the Sejm. [[Applause]] [[Shame on you.]] [[Virtuosery.]] [[You should be ashamed of your friend in the wheel.]] The weaknesses of the educational system have been known for a long time and reforms had to be undertaken earlier. Law and Justice included in their electoral programme a request to return to the 8-year primary school and is now implementing it through the actions of Minister Anna Zalewska. It must be said that the Law and Justice have a social mandate for this. Why did the Poles negatively assess the previous educational system? Probably because it was completely inadequate to meet the expectations of parents and students themselves who collided in secondary school with negative social phenomena, as well as not adapted to the needs of the economy and growing aspirations of civilizational Poles. I say this from my own experience as the father of three high-school and middle-school children. Nor did he agree with the needs of the labour market, which currently requires professional qualifications from graduates. Will the reform of Minister Zalewski improve this situation? Certainly not immediately, but it reduces general education by one year and gives large groups of young people a chance to get a job quickly at the middle level. [[No.]] The general education school, which was brought into the pre-secondary course, also requires changes in the direction of creating a modern school that pursues important educational and educational goals at the secondary level. Now with a three-level education system, which, according to applicants, is successful in most European countries. In Germany, after primary school, which lasts from 4 to 6 years, depending on the state, students have a very diverse educational offer and can take up school, depending on their abilities, in junior high school or Realschule and Hauptschule. This means that most German students are prepared at an early stage to gain a useful profession. Currently, the Polish system deviates from this model and is in fact a 2-level or even 1-level system, given that often the profession is achieved only after graduating from higher education. It is better to have a high-tech economy based on high professional qualifications than good results in international tests and a low-innovation economy. Each educational system is a complex distributed system in which very many social processes occur. Attempts to introduce new regulations must therefore be met with criticism of interest groups operating under the current system. A strategic analysis of the education sector is a major challenge, as it requires an agreement of a large number of stakeholders, actors and stakeholders in the system. Therefore, it is necessary to continue social dialogue on this fundamental issue for the future of Poland. The assumptions of the basic education system should be based on the principle of competing on a regulated educational market for different actors and, on the other hand, competing for the best personal development pathways in schools that meet their needs. Such a structured education system would feed the economy and society into the best-prepared professional staff capable of addressing today's challenges in global goods and services markets. As Members of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, we will support Minister Anna Zalewska in this necessary reform, however, hoping that the target shape of the Polish educational system will result from an agreement of all political forces and will be based on a deep strategic analysis and very well formulated objectives. The education system should be built on the principle of social solidarity and mutual respect and on the professionalism of teaching staff. The building of social ties and a system of values at school must be based on education in the spirit of patriotism and the promotion of responsible attitudes. We are convinced that Minister Zalewska is guided by these values in the implementation of education reform. Members of the Free and Solidarnia Circle will vote against the vote of distrust for the Minister of National Education, Ms Anna Zalewska. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u388	Thank you, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Prime Minister Beata Szydło will speak. You're welcome, Prime Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u389	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Law and Justice have committed themselves to the voters to carry out the reforms and changes they expect. We do this consistently, according to the programme, plan and schedule. We are determined to carry out these commitments effectively and to the end. Poles expect this, Poland deserves it. We're a government that takes care of people's affairs, not politicians' matters, not ourselves. People have benefited from it. In the last eight years, less has been done than we've been able to do in a year for people. [[Applause]] [[Have you seen your polls?]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Our reforms meet the expectations of Poles, come out... [[Voice from the room: you can't hear.]] [[The glory in the corner was constant.]] ...against the expectations of different environments and the needs of different environments. They are needed because Poland must be a country ruled by citizens and for citizens, not for the narrow ones... [[Voice from the room: Dictators.]] ...elite. Poland must be... [[Voice from the hall: What about the Bear?]] ...a country that... [[Voice from the hall: And Misiewicz is what?]] ... guarantees citizens a decent life, safety, the opportunity to realize dreams and ambitions. And that is exactly what the Minister Anna Zalewska, proposed by the Government of Law and Justice reform of education, reform of the Polish school, reform of which the Polish school simply needs. [[Applause]] We're doing the reforms as planned. Our thoughtful, as planned, reforms are the result of listening to the voices of people who told us what they expected at numerous meetings. That's what happened in the election campaign. For 12 months the Law and Justice, the Government of Law and Justice has consistently implemented these obligations. And we will continue to pursue them with such determination as we have so far. The result of this listening to the voice of Poles is, among others. Ms Anna Zalewska successfully carried out so-called. reform of six-year-olds. Polish parents regained the right to decide about their children, regained the right to decide when their children were to go to school. And this is a huge success of Minister Anna Zalewska. [[Applause]] [[They always will be.]] We have prepared a project for education reform. Why? Because Polish school... [[Voice from the room: Unprepared.]] ...that reform needs. She needs... [[There's an unprepared reform.]] ...system reform, so we're restoring 8-year-old primary school and 4-year-old high school, needs reform... [[It's like the PRL.]] ...programming, but also thanks to this reform, vocational and technical education will be relevant at the moment. [[Applause]] And these are the expectations of Poles. This is a process of extensive consultations which have been conducted for nearly six months under the personal supervision of Minister Anna Zalewska. [[There was no consultation.]] And I want to say first of all: we have money for this reform, we have proposals for middle school teachers, we finally have a programme and a plan to make these changes. There is a need for dialogue, dialogue and, above all, peace. We act methodically, according to the plan and quietly carry out the tasks that Poles have set before us. This is perhaps one of the most difficult reforms, and we are aware of it, but also one of the most expected. Her success, I'm not afraid to say it, depends on the future of our homeland. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: How do you know that?]] [[We don't see this future very well.]] Today, all those of you who are criticizing this reform, all those who are questioning this reform, should answer the question whether the current education system, the Polish school which currently operates on such principles, gives and guarantees such education to young citizens, young generations of Poles who in the future will be able to compete equally with their peers from the fastest and best developing countries who will be able to... [[Exactly. Exactly.]] [[Voice from the room: That's right, that's right.]] ...to implement their ambitious plans, who will finally have the sense that the education they have acquired, the preparation they have achieved, is indeed what a worthy life guarantees them. They have to answer the question of whether the current system guarantees that we are a modern, courageous and effective state against the challenges of modern times. Is it not finally our duty to ask ourselves about the role of the school, the role of education in building our identity, the identity of our community, the school as a guarantee of the sustainability of the values and patterns we have taken from our ancestors? We must seek positive answers to these questions, which will indicate the place of tradition, culture, all these imponderabilities that have been causing for centuries, make us today and make us a nation in the future, which builds its community on a permanent foundation inherited from previous generations... [[You're smashing it right now.]] ...and we can never give up or give up on them. It is our duty as the present generation of Poles to pass on these values and principles to the next generations of Poles, as they were once passed on to us. This is not an easy reform, but necessary, we need all of it. It must be conducted in peace and dialogue, it must not be frightened, nor must it be feared. If all the environments that are involved in this reform, all the environments that it is touching, cooperate with each other, they will support each other in carrying out it, then we will succeed and do something really important for Poland. And that's what we need today. We're not afraid of this reform... [[But we're scared.]] ...but I also have an appeal to politicians, local government and trade unions: do not threaten this reform of Poles, do not scare teachers, do not scare students, do not scare your parents. [[We don't have to.]] This is a well-prepared reform that will be carried out perfectly. [[Applause]] [[She's not prepared at all.]] Education, education of children and young people is one of the most important elements of the functioning of the state, not only countries as institutions, but above all countries as communities of citizens, of the national community. Everyone sitting in this room should know that such things will be as common as youth hiding. [[Oh, and who said that?]] School is the place where there shouldn't be politics. [[Voice from the hall: But you forgot it.]] There should be knowledge, there should be wisdom, there should be understanding and understanding, there should finally be care and support for the young generation of Poles. This school is building the foundation for a huge social capital, which is a good education of citizens. A good school is a guarantee of building a modern, strong country, it is a guarantee of economic development, but also above all, as I mentioned earlier, it is the foundation of our community. You want - I am addressing you here from the opposition bench - to appeal to the Minister of National Education. This is your right. I respect that. However, I took the liberty of taking this introduction so that we could all feel the importance of the topic that we are going to talk about today. [[Voice from the room: We just know.]] And I would stress the word "talk" because I would urge you to talk about education right now. [[Voice from the room: And we'll talk.]] Education is an area that should and must be excluded from a simple political dispute. But by reading your proposal, I have the impression that this proposal is to be once again a tool, a kind of mace for laying down the rulers that you want to use in such a political struggle. There's no concrete, there's no good will... [[You have to read with understanding, not by role.]] ...I don't see any concern for the student, I don't see any concern for education... [[Voice from the room: There is concern for the student.]] ...I also do not see there any substantive - the desire to do so - to discuss the necessary changes in education in Poland. The business that leads you is only a fight against a government that has been elected in democratic elections, with a government that, unlike your governments, is doing this... [[The voice from the hall: Oh, dear.]] ...what Poles expect - he took care of the affairs of ordinary Poles, not himself. We carry out our program with calmness and discretion, because this is what Poles expect. You are left with a political upheaval of inciting constant, unproductive political conflicts and reporting to the Polish government abroad. [[Applause]] [[Smolensk, Smolensk, Prime Minister.]] The proposal contains many generalities, false, manipulations or more or less skilled publicist ones. You write, among others. the State in this motion or are you saying that Minister Zalewska does not conduct a dialogue, does not consult her actions. I will say that this is a very brave thesis, especially when it is formulated by a party which, without blinking an eye to the basket or - otherwise - sent back to grind the votes of a million parents who signed their signatures under an educational referendum request. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Not the parents.]] You were deaf to your parents' arguments, you didn't listen to them, contrary to your parents' wishes, you were making changes concerning, among others. starting a school obligation. We parents listen, we consult, but first of all we see the need to change in education, the need to change in the Polish school, because this is what the school needs, but most of all it is what children need, and this is what the whole educational community needs. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] Within 12 months, Minister Zalewska has made a lot of important changes in the education system, which I will continue to talk about, but I would like to stress once again that through her actions, Minister Zalewska restores the faith and trust of her parents in the Polish school and in the Polish country. [[Voice from the room: Oh, no...]] [[Prime Minister, a little modesty.]] It is thanks to her actions today that parents have a free choice, can make decisions, feel co-hosts of the Polish school. And so we will consistently introduce these changes in the Polish education. [[And we're parents cursed.]] Parents will be co-hosts in Polish schools. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] You're criticizing changes you don't even really know. From some passages, you try to build the whole thing, talk about chaos. Besides, I will remind you that the word "chaos" is mentioned every time the Law and Justice, the Government of Law and Justice is fulfilling their electoral obligations, fulfilling the expectations of Poles and making good changes. [[Applause]] We heard about the chaos when the family program was being introduced... [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska: First 500+ and now 4,000.]] ...when six-year-olds... when the reform of school age was introduced so-called. Six-year-olds. You said it would be armageddon. So what? And nothing happened. 500+ functions, parents have the right to decide about their children, about their future, there is no chaos. [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strzycharska: Of course.]] [[Because self-governments have done it.]] Once again, I appeal to you: Do not frighten teachers, parents, and students. [[Voice from the room: They're already scared.]] Your duty, the duty of all of us sitting here in the Chamber, is to unite in carrying out this reform, so that the Polish school is stronger, the children are better educated, have a greater sense of... [[And people lived a prosperous life.]] ...his chances of keeping his parents calm, the school's safe and, above all, that the teachers... [[Where do you get that kind of knowledge? From the Republic Television?]] ...they could do their job decently. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] In the proposal, ladies and gentlemen, you write, among others, such a phrase appears that Minister Zalewska is setting a bad example for students. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Oh, even yours laugh.]] I'm going to say that such a bad example, if I'm going to go back to the times of Platform and PSL rule, such a bad example appears. The Minister of Education of the Civic Platform has allowed one of the tabloids to photograph herself in a situation that is very embarrassing. It was an extremely ambarassing, outrageous environment. [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: What is it?]] Ladies and gentlemen, if today we are talking about the symbol of the years of governing the Platform and PSL at the Polish school, what is this symbol? It's a yeast war. [[Oh, really?]] This is the symbol of Platform and PSL, [[Applause]] symbol of their governance in the Polish school - war with yeasts. After these sad years for Polish school we want to give it a new shape now, [[Joy in the Chamber]] new opportunities and, above all, we want to introduce the changes that Minister Anna Zalewska has prepared. The last year for the Minister of Education was extremely intense. A lot of good changes have been made. I'll just remind you a few. The right to choose parents when it comes to sending children to school is something I've already said, but it's worth reminding, because it's really a huge success. A huge success. Another issue, for the first time since 2012, has been the valorization of salaries. Minister Zalewska introduced a salary valorization of 1,3% for 2017. [[Thirty-six zlotys.]] The appropriations for this purpose shall be secured in the budget. Here's another one. The funds for the professional improvement of teachers in 2017 have been increased. The appropriations for this purpose must be 1%. teacher's salary fund. Another issue, the liquidation of card hours, is also the effect of the work of Minister Anna Zalewska. The next issue is computerisation. In cooperation with the Ministry of Digitalization, the Minister of National Education has carried out a diagnosis of online infrastructure in schools and planned the EU-funded implementation of the connection of all schools to the Internet. Very advanced work is underway on the assumptions of the government's "Active array" programme. Another issue is the teaching of programming at each stage of education. During this year, a sealing of the grant system for schools and other teaching institutions was carried out. The software base for the youngest has been rationalised. Finally, graduates have the opportunity to review their examination work and students have been given the opportunity to appeal against the decision of the district examination board on the results of the exams. Another very important issue raised by Minister Anna Zalewska was the liquidation of schools. For many years, there has been an authorisation for schools, especially in small towns, to be liquidated. [[Especially because of your presidents.]] Minister Zalewska has changed this situation. Education curator's veto was introduced on the liquidation of public schools run by local government units. These are achievements, issues that Minister Annie Zalewska managed to carry out in just 12 months. Here we also need to add a great deal of work, which has been done in the preparation of the reform of the education system, next week - I want to reassure all of you - at the meeting of the government this bill will be adopted. [[Applause]] We're introducing education reform. This is the next task that Minister Anna Zalewska is facing. That's the job that parents expect, educators. [[Voice from the hall: They went out into the streets.]] This is finally a task, which will not be easy, but I believe deeply that Minister Anna Zalewska will carry out it as professionally as the previous changes in the Polish school. I think that many of you in this Chamber will also find that these are good and necessary Polish schools of change. [[Ha, ha...]] I also believe that you will be taking the lead in your elections primarily in the field of merity, which was a lot of talk here, and not just in your own political interests. And that is, ladies and gentlemen, yes, since we are talking about school: classrooms are not judged before it is written, and the outcome of the task is not considered wrong before it is resolved. I therefore urge you to simply allow Minister Annie Zalewska to work calmly and implement this reform... [[Voice from the room: No.]] ...and after it is finished, both the state and we all, parents, educators, will be able to evaluate it. I am sure that this will be a very good assessment. [[Applause]] Finally, I want to make one more point, and I think it is extremely important from a political point of view. Do you often ask yourselves why you are politicians? Why, what kind of... [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: No, not often.]] ...the reasons why you're paranoid aren't particularly well-judged by society? Why are you doing this? What's driving you? Well, Minister Zalewska is precisely an example of a policy which, in its conduct, is guided by the interests of the community, understands politics as a service, as an act for the common good. She chose to work in the government, although she could have made a different choice. She chose a government job to take on an extremely difficult... [[That's too bad.]] [[She's a martyr, isn't she?]] ...the task of reforming Polish education. But in order to reform Polish school, Polish education, you have to have character, competence and you just have to love school. And Minister Anna Zalewska has it all. Thank you very much. [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice rise, long-term applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u390	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Please take the floor of the Minister of National Education Miss... The Minister resigns, right? [[Voice from the room: No.]] [[Voice from the room: No, no!]] Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote in the voting block. [[Applause]] High Izbo! The competent committees have submitted a report on the adoption of the Senate on the amendment of certain laws laying down the conditions for the conduct of innovative activities. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: No.]] Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention... [[Voice from the room: What about the questions?]] ...the Marshal of the Sejm has decided to complete the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 54 (1) (a) 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and to hear three-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles in the discussion on this item. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We are returning to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the Government's draft law on support for pregnant women and their families (Prints No. 968 and 970). We're going to ask questions. I would like to inform you that 37 ladies and gentlemen have joined the questions. If there are no more candidates to ask a question, I close the list of registered persons. [[Voice from the room: May I? I have another question.]] I'm assigning one minute to ask a question. And please... [[Voice from the room: Not much.]] Mr Szczerba, the Civic Platform Club, is the first question to be asked. There's no envoy. In that case, I ask you to ask Mr Paweł Bańkowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u391	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The draft Act on the support of pregnant women and their families, presented to the High House, provides for a certificate of severe and irreversible disability or incurable life-threatening illness which arose during the prenatal period of development of the child or during childbirth, inter alia. as regards priority in access to palliative and hospice care. My question is: Will this entitlement be followed by additional funding for such care from the state budget? If so, how high? And the next question is: Is there not going to be discrimination against other children waiting for a place in a hospice and for example. A 2-year-old or 3-year-old child who has cancer will not be thrown out of the queue because instead of it, he will find a place in this hospice for the child, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which has the rights arising from the provisions of the Act? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u392	Thank you. And I ask you to ask Beata Małecka-Libera.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u393	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! For me, this project is an immoral proposal addressed to women, derogating women. I think it's $4,000. It's a donation, I'll say a bribe, without support for families for many years, without building hospices, without building nursing homes. My very substantive question will be addressed to the Minister of Health, because this project has not been sent to the Health Committee, although many aspects are related to health benefits. I have a specific question, Minister. How will a hospice queue be missed by people, by children who will be born and who will require hospice support? There's a waiting list right now, sometimes a very long one, because we all know hospices are missing. How? So there's gonna be these. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, Thank you. [[Applause]] [[It's gonna be a decree that there's no queues.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u394	Thank you. I would like to ask Małgorzata Płępek a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u395	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The government's lifelong program is not what mothers and parents of disabled and terminally ill children expect. In a simple way, it's actually extra bacon. Any support is important, but do parents of disabled children only have such expectations? Concerns about the birth and upbringing of children with disabilities and terminally ill do not concern the fact that at the beginning, immediately after birth, money will run out. System support is needed later, during development, their upbringing, science and rehabilitation. Usually such children require specialized, expensive medical care all the time. I have this question: How does the government intend to support these families throughout their lives, children with disabilities and terminally ill? Why are you kidding Poles again? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Where are the promised system changes? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[In the contents of the bill.]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u396	I would like to ask you another question - Mrs Bożena Kamińska, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u397	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We are participating in another instantly processed law, which as a government project entered the Sejm yesterday, and today is already being processed and we have a debate on this subject. I ask questions about why this haste is so necessary. Prime Minister, why, on such important matters concerning mothers, families and especially sick children whom we want to help throughout our lives, do we proceed in this way and thus address such an important subject? Whether a one-off will provide an amount of $4,000. You want to save lives and help mothers and families taking care of their disabled, disabled children and bringing up children for the rest of their lives who are actually sacrificing themselves 24 hours a day? When and where was the dialogue with mothers and families raising these sick children in order to know the subject and to know what they needed? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why is there no systematic consideration of such an important subject for mothers, families and sick children? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u398	Thank you very much. Another person is Mrs Ewa Drozd, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u399	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Speed faster than the express, and it could even be applauded if the proposed provisions concerned a comprehensive change, a solution to the problem. Unfortunately, it's not. Because it is not only that the bill divides mothers into those who are born, and those who have already given birth, but also raises many doubts and questions that we have heard during the committee's work, but unfortunately we have not heard the answer to these questions. Then, Minister, let me ask you one more time. Which led me to believe that this was the sum of $4,000. zł, not e.g. 5,000.? What analysis does this show? What about children who have an irreversible disability or an incurable life-threatening disease not diagnosed during pregnancy or childbirth, but 6 months after birth and who are born during the foetal period? Don't the provisions of this bill eliminate these children? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Please answer me. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u400	Thank you very much. Ms Agnieszka Hanajczyk, Club Civic Platform, another question. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u401	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In the justification of the project, I read: the basic objective of the proposed law is to ensure the comprehensive implementation of the specific obligations of public authorities towards pregnant women in connection with the relevant articles of the Constitution. Minister, I would like to ask you: Have you thought of a different title, the true title of the bill: support for pregnant women and their families? This bill, the draft of this law, applies only to birth. And I'm sorry to say, I have to say, I think you're getting calls like this, e-mails like this, that you've really humiliated your parents, mothers who have decided to be born and cared for children regardless of those 4,000. This bill has nothing to do with a comprehensive solution, with a historic, groundbreaking solution in the care of a disabled child. That's why I'd like to ask you, [[♪ The bell ♪]] or You take into account that this project is simply unconstitutional. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u402	Thank you very much. Another question, Mrs Katarzyna Osos, also the Civic Platform Club. I ask you, Madam, for another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u403	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! To begin with, a few comments about this project, comments not politicians, just citizens, mothers of children with disabilities. What are the comments? It's ridiculous, it's embarrassing. How can you humiliate people like that? A legislative wick. Let those who wrote the project first check what amounts are needed for medical care or rehabilitation. Do they really think women will give birth to 4,000 and then watch their child suffer? It's more barbaric than abortion. These comments are actually a lot, because people have just seen that this project has nothing to do with the support that parents expect, that it is pure populism and that you are actually using human tragedy for political purposes. The Prime Minister, when announcing this project, has aroused great hopes. We all agree that support is certainly needed in this regard. Comprehensive solutions are needed, [[♪ The bell ♪]] But this project, these proposals, they show that the goal is very different and there are concerns that it will not be an excuse to tighten up the provisions of the abortion bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u404	Thank you very much. Another question, Mrs Anna Cicholska, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u405	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! A government project aimed at regulating support for pregnant women and their families, the long-awaited and important step to start work on a comprehensive programme of helping Polish women, Polish families. Problems and difficulties in caring for a sick child are often beyond the strength of parents, and they need support to a large extent, both financially and therapeutically. I am pleased that State care for this project includes access to healthcare services, including prenatal diagnostics. I have a question for the Minister: Does the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy [[♪ The bell ♪]] In implementing this programme, it will take into account cooperation with local authorities and, if so, to what extent? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u406	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Borowiak, the Law and Justice Club, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u407	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The government bill of the Act "For Life" is the first such programme in Poland and the next program is addressed to Polish families alongside the program "Family 500+. The Government of Law and Justice is once again fulfilling its promise, keeping its word. The state will take due care and support of women experiencing pregnancy pathology, expecting a sick, disabled child. Minister, will the introduction of the program give Polish families a sense of security? Has the government reserved in the 2017 budget adequate resources for this purpose and to what extent? And one more thing. How does the program 'For Life'raise such great, extreme emotions of the opposition? Isn't the Civic Platform, Modern and Polish People's Party for life? What is it that directs you? Is it so painful that the Law and Justice are fulfilling their promises to Poles? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[What are you saying?]] [[She's really worked her ass off.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u408	Thank you very much. Another question, Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u409	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I will save myself from quoting the questions that have emerged online, especially after we heard a proposal from one of the PiS Members at the committee meeting to extend the 4,000. zł - because this is the only novel that appeared in this bill - also for children conceived by rapes or victims of these rapes. It's not a law that's supposed to help families or help disabled children, because how much contempt it takes for women and for families to think it's $4,000. zł will decide to carry the cross. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u410	Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Platform Club, will ask another question. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u411	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, It's a sad day, it's a break of promises, and it's the hypocrisy that was presented from that speaker. The Prime Minister, full of love for all, promised a solution and a comprehensive programme. So? Nothing. A modest $4,000. Evil as humiliation. Who trumped her, who trumped her in family money? Ano Minister for National Defence. The Minister of National Defence managed to find a billion zlotys in the budget for the territorial defence army, and there is no fair money for those who have needs. [[That's right, flying through the woods.]] I would like to remind you of the fact that the various family programmes have been born for many years, from the beginning of the guttural period to the support of families. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So I ask the question, and we expect it: When will the comprehensive programme be? This one was not consulted and is bad. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u412	Thank you very much. Elizabeth Gapinska, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u413	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, I listened to you on TV today. You spoke very nicely about how to support women in a difficult situation for them when they should have a disabled child, but I'll tell you one thing. It seems to me that none - I repeat: no - woman will make such a decision because of the amount of support from the state, or 4,000. zł. Well, if disabled children are born, as they have been born so far, it will come from the decision of a woman who will thus express her desire to have such a child and her love for that child. But with you as usual: with a big cloud a little rain. Minister, will you guarantee that the Minister of Health will provide funds for the treatment of children with rare diseases? There was news in the press from the parents of the children, [[♪ The bell ♪]] who suffer from rare diseases. It often takes hundreds of thousands and even millions of zlotys to treat such children. You want these children to be born, but you don't provide money for their treatment. This is an outrage. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u414	Maria Małgorzata Janyska, Civic Platform Club, another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u415	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the government. Why are you sharing Poles again, sharing children and sharing families? You write about support for pregnant women, while you regulate money, and the other support you mention in the bill is support that is already written in other laws and regulations, and you invoke and repeat the same solutions. At the moment, however, you are offering Poles a one-off reparation for fundamentalism, fundamentalism of one Member, who recently said clearly: We will strive for women to bear even a child strongly deformed, so that the child can be baptized, buried and had a name. This is the price for fundamentalism of one person - 4 thousand. zł. [[Applause]] [[That's humanity.]] [[The voice from the hall: What a embarrassment for a woman to say such things.]] [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u416	Thank you very much. Ms Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Club Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u417	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Unfortunately, my voice will be very similar to the voice of the Member who spoke before me... [[That's a surprise.]] ...because on October 3rd, brave women dressed in black screamed that they would not be passive and would not listen in silence to all the discussions that are going on next to them and against them, and they are about to have an immediate future. But this time the voice was strong enough for you to be afraid of it. You've been pinned to the wall and you've had to step back, but you never lose, you must be the winners... [[Bravo, you're right.]] ...at any cost. This time you came up with a price -- this is the sum of 4,000. zł. [[Happiness favors a better one, my dear.]] Congratulations, ma'am. [[And the shoe leads to a fall.]] On your knees you were preparing this project, and in a moment, threatening to finger, [[♪ The bell ♪]] We give money, so we demand and we have the right to demand - and here I will repeat this quote again, because it must be repeated, it must sound very strongly. By giving this money, you have the right to strive to make even cases [[♪ The bell ♪]] A very difficult pregnancy, when a child is sentenced to death, badly deformed, but ended in childbirth, because isn't that what this step and this project is supposed to do? This is cruel and horrible, Member. [[You're cruel and horrible.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u418	Thank you very much. I understand that this bill, this project is emotional, but I think everyone on this platform would like to speak in silence so that they could hear it. This is especially the attention to the Members of the Law and Justice Club. [[Applause]] [[Bravo, Marshal. Bravo.]] And now I ask you to ask Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u419	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! You go to church every week on the right, you pray... [[Even more often.]] ...even more often, you're confessing. [[Don't pray for us.]] But you are not aware that you commit mortal sin by introducing this law. It's some kind of Catholic fundamentalism, some kind of intellectualism that's embarrassing. You are soulless, even though you dream of a soul, you are simply completely insensitive - insensitive to the body of a woman. You don't respect women. [[How can you not?]] The objectification of women is probably your goal. This is a project from the Middle Ages. [[It's a great era.]] I'm offering you some education on this. [[Voice from the hall: You go to school.]] Look deep into women's eyes. What are you doing to them? [[Applause]] [[No quote?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u420	Mrs Kinga Gajewska-Płochocka, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome. [[Mr King Gajewska-Płochocka is on his way with a bullet.]] [[Slowly, no one's in a hurry here.]] But absolutely no one's chasing anyone. Relax, Member, we'll wait. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u421	In the Seym they are in a hurry, most often with the Constitutional Court laws, but thank you. [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! From this point of view, it is worth recalling what the Civic Platform has done for these famous 8 years. Let's put together a set of actions of the Civic Platform with an insulting proposal for women from the PiS, or 4,000. One-off zloty. And now: The platform introduced care services, granted to parents who resign to care for children with disabilities, in the amount of PLN 1300 per month. In 2006 they received only PLN 420 per month. During 8 years of rule, the Civic Platform's witnessing increased threefold. In 2007, the benefit was paid to 70 000. Today, 105,000 people receive this benefit. persons. Your idea is $4,000. zł once, i.e. such scraps [[♪ The bell ♪]] ... [[Voice from the room: What do you mean? 4,000. What's wrong with that? Some people work for it because of... congratulations.]] ...and we gave each year - each year we give - 15 600 PLN. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u422	Thank you. Another question - Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u423	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This project is bad, this project is humiliating and this project is really embarrassing the authorities. I'd like you to show me this genius and that bold guy who invented that 4,000 on October night. zł. Who's the genius in Law and Justice? [[Voice from the room: There's only one.]] [[Under the cover of the night.]] You give me $4,000. Evil and then what? Are you guys on your own? Is it gonna be okay? Hallelujah and forward? What is this ridiculous idea of a law and justice genius? I'd like to address parents who have sick children. Parents, the government of Law and Justice, the one who talks every day about morality and ethics, values your sick children for $4,000. zł. [[How much are you?]] [[Manipulation, not true, manipulation.]] Don't fall for it. The Life Law and Justice Act is a mockery of life. The state doesn't understand life at all. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You guys are such hypocrites, really. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u424	Mrs Joanna Augustynowska, the Modern Club, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u425	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the draft law in the article. 4 in point 3 is the information to which the law is addressed. The Act is addressed to mothers who will obtain a medical insurance certificate, in which the doctor will diagnose and determine a severe and irreversible disability or incurable life-threatening illness that arose during the prenatal period of development of the child or during childbirth. Now I have a question because I asked the Minister during the committee's work because the woman who gives birth to a child with disabilities in order to get social services benefits must get such a certificate. So I asked, cautiously, if this certificate would suffice. Turns out it's not. Women in traumatic pregnancy, with a sick fetus that doesn't stand a chance of surviving, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Wondering if the child will survive at all, they will have to go to another doctor again. What's that? On what grounds? What kind of guidelines? That's what you forgot in this bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u426	Thank you very much. Mrs Ewa Kołodziej, the Civic Platform Club, will ask another question. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u427	Mrs. Marshal! I don't think there's any doubt in this room that today's bill should be consulted with mothers. With mothers who experience a severe, incurable illness of the child, because they are the authentic, most reliable witnesses of daily hardships, constant struggles, constant sacrifices of entire families. I ask, where were the consultations, because the mothers who are at their children's beds every day should be the first to have a voice to say what they really need. A person suffering, experiencing great pain and suffering, incurable illness requires special support, care, understanding and great empathy. I ask, did you show this empathy today? Have you shown empathy to mothers who happened to be in committee today? The Commission has dealt with extra-ordinary conditions, and many have been unable to attend this committee meeting, but [[♪ The bell ♪]] A few people have arrived. I am interested when exactly and how the demands and proposals of the social side presented, among others, will be taken into account. at today's meeting of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, because several people have spoken very specifically. I wonder if giving these mothers a voice today, the opportunity to comment on their problems is pure courtesy, or do you really want to know the opinions of people who experience daily difficulties in caring for a child incurably ill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u428	Thank you very much, Member. And the next question will be asked by Krystyna Wróblewska, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u429	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I congratulate the Prime Minister on making such a quick decision on the Life Act. I am aware that this is a law that systematically supports women whose pregnancies are at risk. I am very pleased that the Council of Ministers sees the problems of the Polish family in this difficult situation and will adopt a comprehensive programme of life by 31 December. I know that the Polish state will spend a lot of money on this program, as well as on the 500+ programme. That's why I have a question. Who will monitor the implementation of this law so that all families who need help are covered? Or 4,000. offered by the government and other assistance, e.g. Medically, is it wrong, or is it more than anything that has ever been offered by previous governments? Minister, do you understand the opposition that's attacking this program? Because I don't. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I believe that this government of Poland, the government of Prime Minister Beata Szydło, has done the most for the Polish family. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Tons of Vaseline, Member. Too bad the Prime Minister can't hear you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u430	Mr Rajmund Miller, Civic Platform Club, another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u431	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! It is clearly a law written on the PR-PiS demand, a law written, even though you did nothing - and the government - after the Prime Minister's statement that you are taking such action. The proof of this is that there is no public consultation. The proof of this is today's statement by the Minister of Health, who does not know the financial consequences of this law at all, knows nothing. I'll tell you why this bill is wrong. Because she's breaking all the rules. He's not just breaking the constitution, he's breaking all the rules of decency. Minister, I have a question, a very important question. In your explanatory statement, you write: "The proposed law will allow children up to 18 years of age to benefit from a severe and irreversible disability or incurable life-threatening disease that arose during the prenatal period of development of the child or during childbirth, from the palliative and hospice care of children outside the order. Like you and the Minister of Health, and you, they're gonna give me, [[♪ The bell ♪]] a doctor in a hospice, a regulation that I should take such a child, not a child who had cancer at the age of 3 or 4 years? This is indecent. This is a constitutional violation. There can't be that kind of authority. In the face of sickness, we're all equals. This is an outrage. [[You're talking to us.]] That record in the bill is a scandal. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u432	Thank you very much. Mrs Urszula Rusecka, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u433	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I wonder if the bill is going to solve the problems of parents raising children with disabilities or not? Once again, the opposition misleads the public, manipulates, asks questions about 4,000, asks: "And then what? Enough, ladies and gentlemen, to read the article. 10 of the proposed law, which accurately and clearly indicates that by the end of the year, i.e. 31 December 2016, the Council of Ministers will adopt a programme of comprehensive support... [[There wasn't time to read it carefully.]] ...for families, and this procedated law provides the basis for the development of this programme. This is just the beginning. The only problem with the opposition is that this is not your bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the room: But you shouted.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u434	Thank you very much. Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz, Club Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u435	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! That's not our problem, because we would never proceed with a bill like this. [[Touchdown, applause]] We would never proceed with a bill that divides families and families with a disabled child. If the child is disabled already during pregnancy and childbirth, you give him, this family, and if there is a disability only after birth, then not anymore. Minister, I have very specific questions for you. There are still questions about money for medical services, and I ask, how much does it cost? How did you estimate the cost of paying $4,000? zł, 4,000. How many times a year? What's the annual cost? Because I understand that the drafting of the bill also involves a financial statement. So I'm asking what these financial consequences look like, and that's the answer I'm asking. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u436	Thank you very much. Ms Ewa Tomaszewska, the Law and Justice Club, will ask another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u437	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! With such a strong opposition against the law, for the life of these groups and the statements of their Members against the proposed assistance for families in which a disabled child is born... [[We're just asking.]] ...if this is found in the prenatal phase, please explain what kind of action is to be covered by the comprehensive support programme for the families, which is to be adopted by 31 December 2016 and which is included in this law. I also ask you to clarify which children this bill is about. I'm talking about the date of the baby's birth.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u438	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Mosiński, the Law and Justice Club, will ask another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u439	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The opposition is drawing up apocalyptic visions in connection with this bill. This is where Mr Mieszkowski gave this show. I think that such visions could be defined, following Gałczyński, that it is a dream of a crazy dreaming abnormal. It's a fragment of the Serwus, Madonna, Konstanty Ildefons Gałczyński. [[Applause]] Of course, the Civic Platform has helped mothers who are in a difficult situation, especially by raising VAT on infant clothing... [[What about your VAT? What about your VAT?]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] ...or other anti-family activities. I have a question for the applicant: Is the primary objective of ensuring the comprehensive implementation of the specific responsibilities of public authorities in relation to pregnant women, children and their families? And second question: Does the draft law merge into a single legal act the specific powers of a woman [[♪ The bell ♪]] Pregnant children and their families? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u440	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Cieślinski, the Civic Platform Club, will ask another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u441	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Records of the Act, and especially the one-off provision of 4,000. zł for the birth of a living child with severe and irreversible disability or incurable illness threatening life, in a morally healthy society they defy any human dignity. As a result of this disgraceful record, I expect a clear answer to the following questions: What is the purpose of this one-off, which is to say a lot, charity in the context of long-term needs often of special care for disabled children, or is it really not the basis for tightening up the abortion bill in a short time? As I understand it, that's $4,000. zł would be compensation for taking [[♪ The bell ♪]] the risk of giving birth to an irreversibly ill child. So if you're so generous, what do you propose to a mother who will take the risk and the baby will be born dead? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u442	Thank you very much. Mrs Teresa Glenc, Club Law and Justice. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] Then it is Mrs Monica Rosa, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u443	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! You are, ladies and gentlemen, the masters of moral blackmail. This bill is not a bill for life, it is a bill for support. You were scared of the pro-life moves... [[We're all scared.]] ...and now you're making a bill that is really just a fig leaf for real, real system needs of people with disabilities and carers with disabilities. Do you really, ladies and gentlemen, think you're gonna buy for that $4,000? Parents' support? For $4,000. You won't buy love or courage. Dear Minister, what about children with autism? You know perfectly well that the first diagnosis can only be made in the second year of the child's life, not after birth. Plato said the greatest evil is to tolerate harm. Your project, ladies and gentlemen, is a project that does not solve human drama. This is a project that's supposed to give you a sense of clean conscience, and that's a huge harm. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u444	Thank you very much. Mr Jakub Rutnicki, the Civic Platform Club, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u445	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Minister is talking about a comprehensive support programme for families. It is very important to show your mother, your father that when a child is born disabled, the state will help and take care of it. So my mother turned to me... [[Voice from the room: They had no one to talk to.]] ...from the Environmental Self-help Home in Sielinko, the municipality of Opalenica, five mothers, asking to increase the number of places for their children to be able to stay and care there. Since the voivode asked you to do so, they didn't get an answer, so I tried to intervene. I have prepared an inquiry for the Prime Minister, but I have also received an answer from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. What's the answer? That the Wielkopolska Voivode of Mr Hoffmann in 2016 does not expect to increase the number of places by these five places in the environmental self-help home. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What does he say about his 2017 program? I'm afraid there won't be any money either. You preach great slogans, and in reality, women are left alone. Minister, I leave an answer to this interpellation because it is a shame and I hope someone will actually take care of it and help these women. Because you've said a lot, and at the end of the day, the Prime Minister's answer is, what's the situation? Unfortunately, there won't be any money. Let the women handle this on their own. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u446	Mr Piotr Kaleta, the Law and Justice Club, will ask another question. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u447	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wonder if it wouldn't be worth a petition or a project or a request to the Marshal of the Sejm to buy a device that maybe isn't there yet, but a technical thought is going in the right direction, which we'd call ourselves a hypometer. [[Brilliant.]] Because before you guys from the Platform, the ladies of the Platform stand here, in this place, you'd have to be examined. It wasn't that long ago that you were yelling at that speaker when you were trying to fight and show your hypocrisy, your hypocrisy, when you were making faces... [[Sir. Lord, not you. I'm for you, not you.]] ...when you were yelling... [[Respect the women.]] ...when it comes to tightening up abortion law, and today you're standing on this speaker and you're saying... [[Voice from the hall: Lord, not you.]] ...that you are concerned about children who are disabled, who are to be born. This is the height of hypocrisy and hypocrisy. So think about what you're saying. And to Mr Mieszkowski - Mr Mieszkowski, you are mentioning here, you are talking about the Catholic faith here. Yes, sir, Providence has managed not to deal with such things. [[♪ The bell ♪]] How would you like to be included in a program like this, from the orthalion to the casket? [[Applause]] [[Learn your culture.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u448	Thank you, sir, but here the questions are addressed either to the applicant's representative or to the ministry and not to the Member. It's that part of the sitting. And now I ask you to ask Mrs Bernadet Krynicka, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u449	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to remind you that in March 2014 there was a several-day protest by parents with disabled children in the Sejm. One of the mothers who had a disabled child said: I accuse the Polish government that they abuse us, families with disabled children. The Prime Minister has been deceiving us since 2009, promising to change the care system for disabled children. We want the Prime Minister to tell us in his face that he will not help his disabled countrymen. This is your help and support. Our government, the Law and Justice, keeps its promises. The Lifelong Project is the first step towards a comprehensive support programme for families where a child is born or a disabled child is to be born. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister, I have a question: When is the next step towards changes that will help and make life easier for families with disabled children? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u450	Mrs Józef Szczurek-Żelazko, club Law and Justice - please - will ask another question on this issue.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u451	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There are no words as to how some of the messengers are listened to. I'm sorry to hear you criticize this wonderful initiative that gives families who raise disabled children a chance. My colleague reminded me of the years before, when here in the Seym, women with disabled children demanded respect for their rights, they demanded the powers that the government should give them. How much nerve and contempt does it take to make them wait 15 days for solutions that the government will eventually take? Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is a very good bill. She systematically solves the problems of mothers with disabled children, women in difficult pregnancies. It's not just $4,000. zł. These are systemic solutions that are the starting point for further action... [[Voice from the room: Which solutions are already there.]] ...and that will actually cause mothers in difficult pregnancies and parents of children with disabilities to have [[♪ The bell ♪]] full interdisciplinary and inter-ministerial support, not the way it has been so far. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u452	Thank you. Mr Szymon Szynkowski a.k.a. Sęk, a club called Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u453	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! I must say that as a Member of the first term of office, I am shocked by the ruthless and immoral attack on this bill, which is to give support to families where disabled children are born. A month ago, when the Prime Minister announced that there would be such a programme, the next day I grabbed a phone call, set up a meeting with several families who raise disabled children, gathered their opinions, what problems they had, I sat down with other fellow Members to write proposals and these proposals were sent to the Chancellery of the Prime Minister a few days later. Today, some of these proposals are included in the bill. You're not talking about it, you're focusing on $4,000. zł. You're not talking about access to prenatal research, which is written in the bill, about the psychologist, about rehabilitation... [[They were, and now they're gone?]] ...about access to medical devices, about priority when it comes to doctor and nurse, about care. You've forgotten all this. [[Voice from the room: But it is.]] I have a question for the Minister: How many of these proposals, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which are included in the bill, have the Members of the opposition reported? Or else: Did the opposition Members at the level of the project make any proposals at all?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u454	Thank you very much. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, the Civic Platform Club, will ask another question. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u455	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! In politics, credibility is important. At the beginning of this year it became a miracle: the High House, dominated by Law and Justice, when adopting the budget, introduced an amendment to it, one, the only one proposed by the opposition, which received the support of the majority. It was about 20 million per hospice in the Łódź Voivodeship. The government on the tray received 20 million. I spoke about how the money was used. Not one zloty was spent on the needs of hospice patients in the Łódź voivodship. How do you want to convince millions of Poles today that your help will be reliable and true, that it will be honest? [[♪ The bell ♪]] You haven't prepared a legal basis to spend that $20 million, and today, in one night, you have prepared a bill. Let me ask you again, what is your credibility? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u456	Mr Piotr Misilo, the Modern Club, will ask another question. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u457	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mistake is a human thing, but voluntary error is a devil's thing. And this is the devil's project, especially in the area of the 4,000. You, Mr. Kaleta, could sometimes keep your mouth shut, because it's a very good idea how you have nothing to say. On the other hand, as far as the 4,000 are concerned. zł - I am also ethical and from an ethical, moral and philosophical point of view it is absolutely unacceptable. I agree that many of the provisions of this law are good, go in the right direction, and I appeal to you, leave them, but do not morally blackmail women and families who face such a big, difficult and dramatic decision referred to in this law, because it is simply wicked to resolve such dilemmas under the law in such a shameful way. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u458	Thank you very much. The last question will be asked by Marek Hok, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u459	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We are talking about the most dramatic complications that are severe and irreversible impairments or incurable illness or life-threatening illness. We are talking about the most extreme cases of disability. Ladies and gentlemen, for many, many years I have worked in the delivery room. I witnessed really wonderful moments when beautiful, wonderful, healthy children were born, when the father and mother, together with the midwife and the doctor, were very touched. But I also witnessed dramatic births when children were born with great flaws, children who had survived for several, several hours. Today you give these parents $4,000. zł to buy their gratitude for pseudocare. This cynical and hypocritical proposal is truly unethical. These families are left alone, husbands leave women who raise sick children. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voice from the room: Shame.]] That's embarrassing. It's a shame you're making that decision about these women. [[It's a doctor.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u460	Thank you very much. [[The Hippocratic oath.]] Please address the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. [[Your Marshal, in correction mode, may I? Because Bear pissed me off.]] No, I am not giving you the floor, sir. Have a seat. Please take the floor of Minister Krzysztof Michalkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u461	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm not hiding that with a lot of interest I have been waiting for a committee meeting, as well as for this debate in the Sejm because we politicians should all feel responsible for the fact that over the last 25 years, when it comes to disabled people, families with a disabled child, with a disabled person - the fact that these people are to have special care from the state is enshrined in the Constitution, as well as in the Constitution. in the 1993 Act on an obligation which rests with public authority - we were unable to create a system that would give safety to mothers, families with disabled children, with a disabled person. I believe that all the teams that ruled after 1989 are responsible for the fact that still often the mother, the parents, the family in a situation where a disabled child appears, are left alone, are looking for help, are looking very often for rehabilitation, doctor, support, and we are discussing things that do not necessarily refer to this law. I have listened to this discussion and I have been waiting for this discussion to write down ideas, solutions, expectations for this programme that we want, Prime Minister, the government wants to prepare for 31 December. Of course, the bill we are discussing today was created so that families, children with disabilities, families with children with disabilities did not have to wait for them to have a chance to support them from 1 January. On the other hand, because there is a debate on the budget in parallel, of course such a preparation of a law, including that a programme will be created, gives the opportunity to prepare solutions quickly, but also to secure funding for these solutions. Of course, there is much, much more in these solutions. Besides, I do not hide that you must remember that Poland has signed the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. All Polish citizens have certain rights. The same rights shall be granted to persons with disabilities in full. It is only about implementing them, making it possible to exercise the rights that people with disabilities have to exercise them. Of course, people with disabilities are fully citizens and have different needs. Of course, in all the work that you undertake, which we undertake as the High Chamber, we should remember the disabled and the laws concerning culture, sport, education and infrastructure. In fact, there are needs and expectations of people with disabilities everywhere. You forget that people with disabilities often have a lot of time, and this debate is being broadcast online. Families of disabled people listen to what their representatives in this Supreme House have to offer them, which should be suggested that this programme, which will be prepared, be complete, effective, good. Ladies and gentlemen, you have spoken here about some of the issues that have been solved before. Of course it's so-called. Beat-up was introduced in 2006. After all, it was done by PiS, Platform and LPR. After all, it was the state that introduced the care provision, which divided the carers of the disabled and set them financially differently. It was in your time that the Constitutional Tribunal said that this benefit had to be evened out. The state has failed to comply with this judgment of the tribunal, he is still waiting for implementation. The High Chamber has already adopted three laws this year that meet the demands of parents of disabled persons who have been on strike here in the Sejm. We, the state and I, have adopted three laws, have met three demands. It's not like it's just this law that applies to people with disabilities. Everything we do in the Seym concerns people with disabilities. On the other hand, families of disabled people expect respect, interest, support. I don't understand what you and I are saying about this one-time allowance of $4,000. zł. Parents of disabled children benefit from a whole range of benefits. There is also a care provision - 1300 PLN, a 500+ benefit, which we introduced this year, a maternity benefit, there is so-called. There are different benefits, different looks and no one accuses the state that you introduced some of these benefits that you wanted to bribe anyone. No - you wanted to support a family that's in a difficult situation, because you know, [[Applause]] that families with children with disabilities are most likely to be exposed to poverty, poverty, and difficult material conditions. And I think that any support for these families is something that we should be proud and happy about. If the parents found out they had a disabled child... and today on the committee, and earlier on the Internet I read about it - the mother of a disabled child who said that it was for them a lifeline so that at the first moment they could pay for a taxi, go to a rehabilitator or to a specialist, buy additional equipment for the children's room. [[What's next?]] Is there anything wrong with the fact that if the situation of a family with a disabled child requires extra expenses, we suggest that there be an additional benefit? I don't get it, really. [[Applause]] I've been working with people with disabilities for 25 years. Of course, it is as you say: often having a disabled child is a great pain for these people, an additional problem. But I also remember the situation - and listening to you, I remembered it - when I saw parents of a disabled child proud of their child when I saw people with disabilities happy. This is not a black and white reality. On the other hand, it is up to us to make sure that this situation is as good as possible so that these people are not left alone, and it is also up to us, how we will treat our duties in the Sejm, whether it will be as often as it happens, that, in the case of the laws that concern people with disabilities, the House voted unanimously. Such laws in the previous term and before were exceptionally voted by the entire House, all were in favour, because for everyone it should be obvious that the State that the Sejm, that the government should specially care for people with disabilities, families with children with disabilities, families with persons with disabilities. Ladies and gentlemen, this subject requires serious debate, serious reflection. This is what Mr Piechota, one of the disabled Members, spoke about today - there are disabled Members in this House in each term - he called for a serious debate. Was what we have heard in the last hour or two during this debate a serious concern for the support of families and people with disabilities? I appeal: we are open to positive proposals, we will be preparing a comprehensive support programme for families with disabilities, we will certainly take all ideas into account. And on the committee, and here's everything that was positive, we've been taking notes, and we're gonna try to bring it in. It is not that this law has not been consulted with the environment of people with disabilities. Father Philip, the founder of the hospice, called just a moment ago. A small prince in Lublin who organized a meeting of all perinatal hospices from all over Poland a week ago when I was going to visit him. The people from 12 hospices arrived, 14 of them are in Poland. It was there that the disabled child's family also shared their experience with the situation she had experienced, how she dealt with the situation. I'm trying to be in places like this, and I'm also going home tomorrow, and I'm gonna go to a disability facility so that I don't lose the feeling of not losing sight of what these people need. And they really need our interest, not an ideological or political struggle. It's not here, not on this subject. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u462	The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, during the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs in order to present a report. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Thank you very much. We concluded this item on the agenda. We proceed with the examination of item 13. of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Feed (prints Nos 734 and 978). I would like to ask Mr Piotr Polak to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u463	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, I have the honour to present a report on the work of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development concerning the government draft law amending the Law on Feed, contained in print No 734. The government project we are talking about today was launched in July this year, on 19 July, by the Marshal of the Sejm to work in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. Today, High Izbo, the first reading took place and the bill was examined. The committee meeting was a long, comprehensive meeting on the subject covered by the draft law. The changes in the feed law are not extensive, they concern only two articles, that is literally a few sentences. During today's debate, the draft was presented by the Minister, was widely discussed, and then there was quite a rich discussion. What's the deal with this project? The point is to postpone the deadline for the following years and replace it in the article. 1 and Article 1 65 of that law, the words "January 1st 2017" are replaced by the words "January 1st 2019." High Izbo, the point is to dismiss the time limit for the prohibition on the use in the production of feed of genetically modified organisms intended for feed use. A few words about the story, where the problem came from, the subject. Well, High Izbo, in July 2006, the then Sejm passed the Law on Feed, in which it stated that it had been banned and prohibited from producing, placing on the market and feeding genetically modified feedingstuffs and genetically modified organisms within 2 years of the entry into force of that Law. When two years passed in July 2008, there was a problem. I was already an envoy by then. I remember the debate on this topic about the government project of the then coalition of PO and PSL. It was then proposed to postpone this ban by 4 years until July 2012. It was then announced that a special program of substitution of protein, which comes from genetically modified plants, protein from non-modified plants, which is produced in Poland, would be developed by the government. Unfortunately, this deadline was not met, and the same problem again emerged in 2012. In fact, the introduction of this ban was postponed by more than four years - it was on 1 January 2017. Today, for similar reasons, we are approaching a shift of this term, only not by 4 years, but by 2 years. During today's committee deliberations, as I said earlier, there was a broad discussion on this subject. There were many people, institutions and associations who said that such a restriction should be prohibited, but also that there should not be such a ban. There were various arguments: health, economic account, necessity or need to maintain high production, good production of Polish agriculture in the production of poultry meat, where the genetically modified plants in the feed additive are used. There were votes in favour, there were votes against. As in the consultation that the project was subject to, there were such voices: some environments were in favour of not extending this deadline to ban the production of feed from genetically modified organisms and plants, and others were in favour of maintaining this possibility. As a result of a broad discussion at today's meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, a draft law was drawn up at first reading, which was included in print No 978. During the vote, members of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development practically unanimously voted in favour of the fact that the High Sejm attached in this print report No. 978, the draft law amending the Law on Feed, which I am proposing on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. I ask the High House to adopt this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u464	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I ask Mr Zbigniew Dolata to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u465	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice a position on the government draft law amending the Law on Feed in print No 734. The essence of this amendment is to postpone to 1 January 2019 the date of entry into force of the ban on the manufacture, placing on the market and use of genetically modified feedingstuffs in animal nutrition. This ban was introduced in 2006 and has not yet been applied, and it has been announced twice. The adoption of this project is necessary so that we can implement our programme on the independence of Poland from imports of genetically modified soybeans, so that we can provide food security in Poland, which is an important element of protein security. In Poland, we produce about 8.5 million tons of feed, and for this production we consume more than 2 million GM soybean buckwheat, which is the main protein component. We spend PLN 3 to 4 billion a year on this import. The dependence on imports of genetically modified soybeans has been growing for several years, while Polish protein crops could grow in Polish fields, here I am thinking mainly about legumes, rape, i.e. rape grain, also about native varieties of soybeans. I'm saying they could grow, of course it's colloquialism. They're already growing, but they're not growing enough. If more were to grow, the funds that we now spend on imported soybeans could remain in the pockets of Polish farmers, and in this way we could increase the profitability of agricultural production. In recent years, some actions have been taken, and it must be said for justice that the previous coalition has done so, which was to make some progress in this matter. Unfortunately, these actions were insufficient. Best proof that soy imports were not restricted. This has been intensified after the rule of law and justice has been taken over. It is worth mentioning that one of the first decisions of the government by Prime Minister Beata Szydło was the adoption of Resolution 222/2015 of 15 December 2015 on the establishment of a multiannual programme entitled: Increase the use of national feed protein for the production of high quality animal products under sustainable development conditions. The implementation takes place between 2016 and 2020 and has been allocated almost PLN 34 million. These are serious amounts that will serve to develop our knowledge of better varieties of legumes, new cultivation methods, animal nutrition, and eventually this progress will also address market issues, which are by far the most important, because in Poland we are already producing about 560 thousand. t pure protein. This consists of a collection of approx. Thirty-nine thousand. t legumes, domestic soybeans we sow at 20,000. Ha, and we've got 1,400 grand of rape bucks. t, which gives about 440 thousand. t pure protein. Unfortunately, a large part of this domestic protein is being exported, and that is why we must do everything we can to interest feed companies, especially the biggest ones, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Using our domestic, native protein. This animation of demand will have to be based on the introduction of indicative targets for biofuel production. It's gonna be an impulse that's gonna make this seed supply that we already have today, and it's gonna grow by making subsidies for production... It is also worth mentioning here the novelty of the Act on payments under direct support schemes, which was adopted by the High House on 21 October this year. It assumes an increase in payments...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u466	Mr President, please proceed to the end.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u467	...for farmers who grow legumes for seeds. I'm almost done, Marshal. These actions, which are already taken and will continue to be undertaken, should lead Poland to be a country which, if not 100%, will largely safeguard its protein needs when it comes to the production of feed from its own native raw materials.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u468	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u469	For this reason, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will support the draft amendment of the Law on Feed, Printing Nos 734 and 978. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u470	There you go. Mrs Dorota Niedziela, Club Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u471	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I ask for honesty, Mr. 4 years of work, 4 years of monitoring work and 4 years of monitoring spent 35 million by the previous government for work, which will now enable you to introduce an obligation to feed butterfly plants. It's four years' work, 35 million. [[I was talking about it, Member, I was talking about it.]] Thank you for telling me. Please do not say that something has changed rapidly after taking over power, because it has changed rapidly, as far as I understand, that it is 1 million less for research. It's like this: December 13, 2012, press conference, 10 p.m. 13.35. Mr Szyszko accuses of breaking the law, writes an open letter to Prime Minister Donald Tusk, explains that the Government of the Civic Platform and the PSL by the Law on Feedback introduces GMOs into Poland, which will eliminate agriculture, destroy people's health, destroy food security, and promises that immediately after the takeover of power, it will, of course, prohibit any possibility of introducing GMOs into Poland. I'm waiting for an apology. Minister Szyszko, the current minister, shows in this speech at 3 p.m. 13.45 a draft GMO law, which should be prepared by the minister, at this moment the minister of the environment, and asks for cooperation, because the law is ready, the mother of the GMO law. I ask: What happened that lasted a year, more than a year, since Minister Szyszko had all the instruments, has European law on his side, and there is no project, there is no proposal for a large law on GMOs, a law on the mother, which was supposed to protect us all from this possibility? [[It will be, my fellow Member.]] It's gonna be okay. Mr Ardanowski says that there is no economic basis, none. I'm showing. It's just the Internet remembers. Maybe people don't remember, but the Internet remembers. There is no economic basis for introducing any feed involving GMOs. I'm waiting for an apology because that's when we got to murder the Poles. You are doing a memorandum because you know very well that research is already at such a stage that it is now slowly possible to introduce and force feed companies to replace soya without damaging the economy. The justification for your project is simply a very similar justification, actually the same as we had. At the moment it is good, before it was the murder of Poles. There were hundreds of conferences where you accused us of the worst. And Mrs Pavłowicz said that the law is unconstitutional and is absolutely not in line with what society expects. Finally, I will remind Poland... Perhaps I will quote Mrs Pavłowicz because it is very interesting: I personally say that after the elections it will be a good subject and a basis for the Court of State for entities which, contrary to social demands, bring GMOs to Poland in spite of expectations. I would like to ask you to present a further part by your Member. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u472	You're welcome. Mr Leszek Korzeniowski will use the rest of the time allocated to the Civic Platform club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u473	Mrs. Marshal! Due to the time, quickly. Looking at my fellow Members, I find that you have been given some aberration. It wasn't you. You forgot how you behaved at a time when the moratorium was extended by us as well. Today's amendment on 2 years of extension, the moratorium, has put the Minister before a huge problem, because this was not agreed between her colleague Ardanowski and the Minister representing the Ministry. [[We can do this.]] There's been some kind of unheard-of story. [[Don't worry, sir.]] In the Government Act, the party which is in that government absolutely disagrees with the position represented by the competent authority. Ladies and gentlemen, all such matters were said by my colleague. We expect that all those who speak so wickedly of this law at that time, today, to apologize to all those voters whom they have deceived, because you have lost one fundamental argument. You said in the election campaign that GMOs are your asset, this is your sword that you will win against the Civic Platform. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Just a second. [[And we won.]] Yes, you have won, by lying, of course, sir, as usual. Talking about it today... [[No.]] Mr. Szyszko should be here in this courtroom. I'm sure he'd have a very surprised look on his face... [[Exactly. Not you, Zbyszek.]] ...and nasty eyes. Yeah, but he's more into driving an ambulance with some of his friends. So that the Civic Platform asks that this bill proceed to further work in peace and agony with yours, however, my culpas, accepting their nasty position once. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[We had to mobilize you. You wouldn't have done anything without us.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u474	Thank you very much, sir. And another Member will be Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, who will speak on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u475	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The strategy of Polish land and Polish agriculture - free of GMOs - should be considered absolutely crucial for our economic future. Thanks to the vast majority of the PO-PSL coalition in the Seym, laws favorable for the expansion of GMOs are pushed. The president doesn't take advantage of veto rights in this case. We want to support changes to the common agricultural policy, encouraging the development of local markets, preserving Europe as a GMO-free zone. More and more scientific research confirms that GMOs, or genetically modified organisms, threaten human health. It should be emphasized that the Law and Justice was, is and will be behind Poland free from GMOs, not only in words, but above all... [[It's true.]] ...in actions. [[That's the first step today.]] The words of the leading politicians of Law and Justice, which I have just quoted, are the words of the leading politicians of Law and Justice. These are, of course, statements from a time when this group was still opposed to the PO-PSL coalition at that time. However, we can see that the circumstances have changed. In the justification of the project we can read that the need to amend this law is dictated, among others. Whereas the introduction of a ban on the import of genetically modified soybean buckwheat will be problematic for the condition of Polish agriculture due to the fact that our country suffers from a serious shortage of feed protein and the replacement of genetically modified soybean with its natural counterpart is supposedly unrealistic. However, as it turns out, during the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on 27 January 2016, Prof. Wojciech Święcicki formulated the assumption that only 50% of national sources could be covered the annual demand for feed protein. Ensuring national protein production at this level would achieve the so-called. protein security of the country and would save as much as PLN 1.5 billion a year. Prof. Andrzej Rutkowski, at the same meeting, called for the national production of feed protein to be based on small plants producing between 20 and 40 tonnes of concentrates per month and the farmer should complement these concentrates with his own cereals. Professor Rutkowski stressed that the awareness of farmers in other aspects should also be increased. Such and other proposed solutions and guidelines cannot necessarily produce effects from day to day or even from month to month, and will entail specific costs, but we must ask ourselves: Isn't Polish agriculture really worth fighting for its high quality and proven brand? Thus, given the request to postpone the date of entry into force of the earlier prohibition, we are facing a drastic change in the views of the governing camp on this matter. The chairman of the committee, Mr Krzysztof Ardanowski, representing the Law and Justice, tabled an amendment at the committee meeting. The amendment refers to a two-year moratorium. In view of these circumstances, I recommend voting in favour of the bill. I am surprised, however, that the government side on behalf of Minister Ewa Lech insisted on a four-year moratorium on the committee. You don't have one opinion in your own party on such a crucial matter. The social side of the committee welcomed the two-year moratorium - it is well aware that a child cannot be fired with a bath, it cannot lead to the collapse of the meat industry in Poland and to further problems in Polish agriculture. However, guarantee the citizens that you will not introduce another two-year moratorium in two years' time. During the meeting, the committee president, Mrs Dorota Niedziela, mentioned research on the protection of Poland in protein. The research cost PLN 35 million, the PiS continues this research. How will you convince Polish feed companies to supply Polish protein so that it reaches the internal market rather than export? Isn't that only possible in the context of the ban on the importation of genetically modified soybeans? If we don't solve this problem, we'll have another moratorium in two years. I don't want it to just be a false bow towards society. I don't want it to be political, I don't want another moratorium in two years. Poland should be free of GMOs. Together with the members of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and its president, Jarosław Sachaika, we will look closely at the progress of the Ministry's work as Kukiz15. Two years to free Poland from GMOs is a short period of time, which is why this time must not be wasted. I don't want this to be a political sweeping of the problem under the rug. Law and Justice have been given an opportunity on this issue - a chance from the social side and from the opposition at the committee meeting. Don't waste this chance unless you care. [[We won't waste, we won't waste.]] After all, you have signed the ceta agreement, so this moratorium may not be relevant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u476	Thank you very much. Mrs Ewa Lieder on behalf of the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u477	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law amending the Law on Feed is intended to amend the article. 65 and extends the date of entry into force of the ban on the manufacture, placing on the market and use in animal feed of GMOs containing the sharps of genetically modified oil plants from 2017 to 2021, but after the PiS amendment, which we very much hope will enter and pass in the vote for 2019. [[It'll pass.]] [[It doesn't have an amendment anymore.]] Feed authorised for use shall be entered in the register in force in all countries of the European Union through an opinion on the safety of GMO products, which shall be drawn up by the European Food Safety Authority. Food safety. Feed is thus authorised in the European Union as safe. The lack of a coherent and uniform European Union policy on GMOs has caused the provisions of the 2006 Law on the Prohibition of the Production, Marketing and Use of Feed to be moved several times over time in animal nutrition. Both Polish bans and bans of other EU countries related to GMOs have been introduced by regulations. The prohibitions on the cultivation and marketing of GMOs introduced into the law were contrary to EU law. 28 October 2015 The European Parliament rejected the European Commission's proposal that each Member State should be able to decide for itself on the import of food and feed derived from genetically modified organisms. The introduction of a ban today would lead to a decrease in the competitiveness of Polish products on the EU market. The obstacle is the lack of native protein feed on the Polish market in the necessary quantities. Currently almost 2 million tonnes of soy buckwheat are imported to Poland. Annually, this sharps account for around 60% high protein raw materials for the production of feed. Market conditionality is based on the dominance of very well-organized trade in soy buckwheat. It takes a very large amount of money to get GMO feed out of the national market. [[No, no, no, no, no.]] It is important to promote the cost-effective price level of the domestic raw material. It would be necessary to develop the cultivation of native legumes, non-genetically modified soya, rape meal in order to offer national feed protein competitive in terms of quality and price, as the current lack of developed market logistics and promotion of such protein pushes it to market and production margins. Unfortunately, at present there is no possibility to replace the necessary amount of protein with Polish protein plants. Today's introduction... [[No, no, there are possibilities.]] That's your opinion. [[You can't see.]] Today, the introduction of this ban would still be risky from the point of view of Polish poultry, pig farming. This prohibition would lead to an increase in the import of foreign poultry which is reared on GMO feed. As a result, the regulation would not eliminate GMOs from the diet of Poles. Poland is also the leading exporter of poultry. The exports of poultry meat from Poland to the Western European Union in 2014 amounted to 708 832 t of high value. The ban would have a huge impact on the functioning of poultry farming and would also decide on the continued existence of many farms. The ban would also deepen the current crisis in the pig market. The date of entry into force of the ban on the manufacture, placing on the market and use in animal feed of GMOs shall be moved from 2006. Since then, there has been a lack of strong government action to support the denial of GMO feed from the home market and to strengthen the commodity production of the domestic protein product. [[Now that's gonna change.]] I hope so. To date, direct financial support for legume farmers has not affected the increase in commodity production of this raw material. The problem of reconciling legislation at the level of EU law, national law, was already known and discussed four years ago. Ladies and gentlemen, summing up the above arguments, the Posel Club It is modern in favour of supporting the project and, at the same time, contributing to the gradual displacement of GMO feed from the home market. Of course, we hope very much - as I said before - that the amendment proposed by the PiS at the last committee meeting will be voted in favour. [[She's here. There's a report.]] Okay. Then we're very happy for you. [[I'll take it from here.]] If I'm wrong, I'm sorry. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u478	Mr Mirosław Maliszewski on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u479	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I present the position of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club in relation to the draft law on amending the Law on Feed. First, I'd like to make an historical point. The rapporteur very carefully and correctly presented the course of discussions on genetically modified feedingstuffs, the participation of genetically modified soybeans in those feedingstuffs over the years. I remember very well the discussions about this from 2006, 2008, 2012 and I also participate in the current discussion. I also remember perfectly changing the position of various Members from different groups depending on whether they were in a coalition agreement, as in 2006, or not, as in 2008 and 2012. I remember this discussion. In 2006 it was said that we were introducing a ban on the use of genetically modified feedingstuffs, but we can't do it right away, probably in a few years we'll be prepared to have genetically modified soybean, which is the primary source of protein in Poland and in most European countries or in all countries, replace some other source of protein. I also remember this discussion and the slogans that fell from this side of the room at the time, especially as regards the fact that we must lead to such a situation that Poland is a country free from genetically modified organisms, so that there is no cultivation, but also that there is no import of genetically modified plants or grains. The words were harsh, and often the word "scary" was used to refer to those who intend to introduce a moratorium once again. The situation has changed a bit today. We hear the language of the discussion milder, especially in the issue of the PiS, the language which is the result of a little sense and a little logic, indicating that today Poland cannot afford the introduction of a complete ban on genetically modified feeds, because we are not prepared to replace soy buckshot with some other product, including that produced by Polish farmers, although this should be the goal and this was the purpose of the programme which we introduced a few years ago as a coalition of PO-PSL, which is to cause, that in the coming years, although some of the GM buckshot, imported mainly from the countries of America, will replace Polish production. It is us - we have to give the truth - that we introduced this program and that we first took a step to free Poland from this import. Today we have this situation, that those who have criticized for years have accused others of treason, are trying to find arguments about how, however, for the next two years, and according to the government's submission, the next four years, because we need to talk about this intention, not the intention of 2 years, in Poland still allow imports of this product. What's changed? It has changed that when you're responsible for something, you have to have a little more logic and a little more reason to speak, not just to tell things that are impossible for the electoral needs. We also need to be clear about the protein program, and about the future of this. It is not possible to replace a cheap product, which is used by almost the whole world, with a product that will be more expensive and which will be associated with a production enclave. We would like these products in Poland to be cheaper, but artificial methods will not cause this. So if in the future soy continues to be genetically modified cheaper than protein produced in Poland, it will be cheaper when it comes to protein input into feed, we will have to use it. Otherwise, we will expose Polish producers, Polish farmers, the Polish agri-food industry to the loss of its position on the international market and to the fact that this competition we are winning today will consequently be lost. You have to talk logically, rationally, not politically. I hope my voice is that voice. I started by voting on a political issue, talking about what the debate has been like in recent years, how the positions of individual parliamentarians have changed, the measure has been substantive and I will end politically. Today is one of the important days in the functioning of the PiS in the Polish Parliament, especially in the area of agriculture. Another myth is coming, another password that was preached before the elections, which was not reflected in the implementation at the time when you rule. This is the slogan that brought you electoral success, saying that you will free Poland from genetically modified organisms. In fact, today, using your language, it must be said that you are introducing genetically modified organisms into Poland, I mean the CETA agreement. And this is not a political voice in the way I've had the opportunity to observe in recent years, but I clearly point out that it is forbidden to deceive people. Not even for the grand purpose of taking over power, because this is the essence of political activity, misleading people, using electoral lies, forgery of elections. Today, this has been exposed, like many of the other ideas you had before the elections, which you are unable to implement today. After all, I'm happy about this change of position, [[♪ The bell ♪]] because the Polish village, Polish agriculture deserves to sell, win international competition and achieve income, not just be the recipient of slogans that are supposed to bring to politicians the function. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u480	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan to speak on behalf of the Members of the Free and Solidarni Circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u481	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the government proposal for a law amending the Law on Feed. The project is expected to postpone from 1 January 2017 to 1 January 2019 the date of entry into force of the ban on the manufacture, placing on the market and use in animal nutrition of genetically modified feed and genetically modified organisms intended for feed use. The applicants motivate their decision with a number of arguments. They point to the negative effects of the ban, which are inter alia. the increase in food prices resulting from the direct increase in the cost of production of this food and the reduction in our price-cost competitiveness in the foreign market. Furthermore, according to the justification given in the draft information, the supply of domestic production of protein raw materials has been insufficient and has not covered national demand for feed protein for years. These shortages have been complemented for years by imported oil plant shots. It is important that in any European Union country such a ban does not exist at present, and therefore the introduction of it only in Poland, without careful preparation, can prove to be completely ineffective. It can only lead to an increase in production costs, which will translate into an increase in prices and, as a result, will hit Polish producers who will not be able to compete with the prices of imported products. As the designers point out, a 2-year delay in the implementation of the ban will serve, among other things. the development of alternative solutions in animal nutrition with high protein feed materials other than genetically modified, while maintaining maximum caution and protection for Polish producers. It is important that our actions are compatible with the public interest, which is implemented as effectively as possible by the regulations in question. The Free and Solidarni Circle supports this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u482	Thank you very much, Member. There are 10 people on the list of Members to be asked. Is anyone else up for it? There isn't. I'll close the list then. The first question will be asked by Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, the Law and Justice Club. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u483	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The explanatory memorandum states that no country in the European Union has banned the use of genetically modified feed. As long as there is no uniform European Union policy on GMOs, we cannot afford such a ban, even for economic reasons. In the draft law - I stress: in the draft law - it is planned to postpone the date of entry into force of the ban for a further 4 years, i.e. until 1 January 2021 I would like to ask: Will there be two years of work during these 4 years or, after the amendment, on how to leave genetically modified feeds? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u484	Mr Stefan Romecki, the Kukiz club15, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u485	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! As Kukiz,15 we fight for Poland free from GMOs. It must be an effective fight. Is a two-year moratorium enough, or will it turn out that in two years we will accept another two-year moratorium? What guarantee do we have that in two years we won't be importing genetically modified soybeans? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u486	Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, Club Law and Justice. Here's another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u487	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The proposed amendment to the Law on Feed, which sets a time limit for the ban on the placing on the market and use of GMOs in feed for a relatively short period of time, because 1 January 2019, I am very positive. This short term must force alternative pathways to meet our country's demand for high protein feeds, of course, alternative primarily to GMO soybeans. One such path is the possibility of cross-using meat and bone meal. Let me remind you that the ban on these meales has been in force for several years since causality was found between the use of meal of the same species for cattle and numerous cases of spongiform encephalopathy, namely BSE, especially in the UK. My questions. What are the prospects for lifting the ban? Is it a pretext that there is no method to identify species of animal proteins in feedingstuffs, or do other factors determine this? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is the Polish government involved in changing this legal status? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u488	Thank you very much. Mrs Dorota Sunday, the Civic Platform Club, will ask another question. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u489	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm gonna be a little tiring. I'm just gonna quote. The people who criticized us the most and criticized us at all are not in this room. I am talking about the Minister of the Environment, I am talking about Mr Fart. I will merely quote Mr Fark's statement, which was very virulent in this criticism of extending the memorandum: I have another question - says Mr Fare from the Seym. Why are you destroying the Polish village and setting agriculture on fire during the time of your office? Why are we importing pork and sugar? Because you ignore the interests of the Polish village and the Polish people. And yet I'm addressing a coalitioner who doesn't seem to understand, but he's going to support the spread of GMOs in feed. GMO that kills the Polish village kills agriculture and kills everything good in the Polish village. I'm really waiting. [[♪ The bell ♪]] for a delicate saying: yes, we did not consider the economics and good of Polish agriculture. Because at the moment it is the economy and good of Polish agriculture that are in the justification of your project.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u490	Please, Mr Leszek Korzeniowski, the Civic Platform Club, will ask another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u491	Thank you, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Me again with a little question for you. At today's committee meeting there was an understatement between you and Mr Ardanowski. From what you can guess, this moratorium will probably be extended 2 years, which is already some kind of government failure, a failure of the Ministry. But my question goes on: in two years' time, will you not have another embarrassment here in this courtroom that you will have to extend this moratorium again for another two years? That's first of all. Secondly, there is a question to the Minister: If you agree with this two-year moratorium, let's call it this, how do you think you will be able to lead Poland to self-emancipation when it comes to importing this genetically modified soybean? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u492	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u493	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm not gonna talk about GMOs, I'm gonna talk about soya. When, in the 1970s and 1980s, soy began to flow to Europe in large quantities, there was a belief, a myth that has so far repented, that soy is such a wonderful source of protein that it is irreplaceable by no other products. It does not matter that in the meantime we have eliminated rape varieties, which contained anti-nutritional substances, that there are toasting and extrusion procedures, that you can economically produce protein also in Poland from very different sources. By the way, the Americans who sell soy at home, the main source of protein in feed, made a distillery brew, not soya. But this myth continues so far, in many schools it is still explained so, this myth is used to defend soy. That myth, I think, fell right in front of us. I have a very specific question: What actions the Ministry intends to take in the coming months to promote agricultural product lines non-GMO [[♪ The bell ♪]] and what measures does he want to take to encourage farmers to grow and to organise a market that will enable them to effectively eliminate soya from the Polish market in the coming years and replace it with protein products produced in Polish agriculture? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u494	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u495	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today's agricultural committee meeting on this topic was very interesting, and I encourage everyone to see it. We have heard a lot of concerns - social concerns, that is, maybe I would say here, consumers, this group, about what will happen to GMOs. They would like to have the right to choose and eat without GMOs. At the same time, we saw the concerns of the producers. This group was concerned about what would happen if there was a sudden ban on the introduction of GMO soybeans and how the costs of production of pigs or poultry would go down. There were questions about whether we could afford it. I wanted to ask the Minister, are we sure we can afford not to replace the Polish source of protein? What if China, which consumes 45% global demand for soya, [[♪ The bell ♪]] They're gonna need 55%. ? What are we gonna do if we suddenly run out of protein in Poland? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u496	Thank you very much. Mr Bogusław Sonik, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u497	A few years ago, PiS accused the Civic Platform and PSL of poisoning Poles and flooding Polish GMOs. You built your capital on lying and scaring Poles. Now you're on the same legislative path, announcing an extension of the moratorium to ban the use of genetically modified feed. Hypocrisy - isn't that the word that best describes the Law and Justice tactics? The dictionary gives such a meaning of hypocrisy, so choose what you think is appropriate. Hypocrisy means duplicity, a hypocrite is someone who seemingly supports someone or a position, a hypocrite, a Pharisee, a wolf in lamb's skin. The hypocrite is someone who pretends to be cordial, godly, noble, friendly, publicly criticizes and instructs others, but himself does not live according to the views preached, the con man, the swindler, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Avalanche, perverse, twisted, lying cynic. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u498	Another question, Mr Bogusław Sonik, the Platform Club... no, sorry, you've already disappeared from the screen. Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome. [[Voice from the room: It's a good thing it's only from the screen.]] Very good.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u499	Every Positive Change in Man's Thinking deserves seriousness and recognition, all the more so if it goes towards rationality. I am directing this to the Members of this House. But to be honest, after these few years of discussion on GMOs and GMO feed, I did not think that I would see the time when the PiS Members from this speaker would talk about the advantages of genetically modified soybean and the need to extend the moratorium so that GMO vegetation would be in feed. But that rationality is needed today. I have a question for the Minister. Namely, it is an ambitious program to become independent of the imports of genetically modified soybeans after these 2 years and to base the production of protein on domestic plants or domestic production. We're rooting for this program. The question, however, is how do you intend to proceed? this is to be realized when the CETA agreement will enter into force, which opens the door wide for soy GMOs, because all the restrictions that have so far been within the scope of quotas, customs, etc., are disappearing. So how do you intend to bring about such a situation that Polish protein [[♪ The bell ♪]] will it be competitive then? And aren't you really going to be even more embarrassed in two years' time and take the initiative to extend the moratorium on GMO feed in Poland for another two years?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u500	Thank you very much, sir. And the last question will be asked by Mr Zbigniew Dolata, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u501	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! First, an explanation: no one from the Law and Justice, or perhaps even from this House, has praised genetically modified soybeans. And that is, I think, a big success, because after many years we have reached at least a consensus on that. On the other hand, Mr Sonik's statement, I think, stems from the absolute ignorance of the subject. There is no hypocrisy in our actions, that is simply rational action. If the previous coalition had led this research programme, the legume crop support programme to such a level that production would have exhausted the demand of the feed industry, today we would not have to announce an extension of the moratorium for another two years. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The ban would simply apply and we would have Polish protein components for the production of feed. Unfortunately, we do not have this and we need to think about the future of Polish breeding. To think rationally, we need to get these 2 years to prepare projects that will make it unnecessary to import genetically modified soybeans, but we will only satisfy our needs with protein native legumes, soya, potato protein, rape poppies and other products. That's the task we're facing. There's no hypocrisy in this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u502	Thank you very much. With this question, the list of MEPs in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State... [[You.]] Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Mrs. Ewa Lech. I'm very sorry, Minister, but I'm afraid I have to wear my glasses. It's late. You're welcome, Minister, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u503	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I do not hide that, as a representative of the government and co-creator of these changes to the bill, I am disappointed that the committee has shortened this period of suspension of the ban, but everything in the hands of the Sejm. Here, these comments are absolutely right. There was a rumble, because it seems to us that these 4 years would be a better solution, even if there was no need that we would have to retreat from it someday. [[It's not gonna be like this.]] I hope it doesn't. Question one: Is there a ban on the use of GMOs in the European Union? Of course, there is no such prohibition. We'd be the only country that would introduce such a ban. Is work being done on leaving GMOs? Of course they're being run. For example, this multi-annual research programme is continued for probably PLN 31 million... [[34.]] ...34, in any case quite expensive, which is foreseen for the years 2016 and 2020. We'll have to wait for the results. So, among other things. such action shall be taken. The question is, will these two years be enough? As far as our opinion is concerned, we'd like to be four years old. Mr Szulowski asks what are the prospects for lifting the ban on meal whether we are involved in this system. There are very real prospects, because it is not only a problem of Poland. In general, we realize that meat and bone meal or these third category UPZs are very valuable proteins. Indeed, these studies are at the final stage. It is only about developing diagnostic methods that differentiate the meal, the origin of these meal so that we can check whether there is no protein of bovine origin in feed for cattle, and there is no protein of pig or pig origin in pig feed, in short. What are the government's actions with regard to the possibility of a ban? It's multi-directional, e.g. this multi-annual programme, but we are also going to, because the opinions were divided, we understand these different opinions, introduce a law on voluntary labelling of food and feed of GMOs. So that the customer will be able to make a choice with full awareness of what he buys. This law is already at the stage when internal agreements are concluded. That won't be a problem. She will probably enter into force in January 2018, so here will be a possibility. In addition, the mechanisms resulting from the RDPs are introduced. Aid for grain production has been introduced. Until now, there have been land subsidies, so farmers have plowed these crops and used it as fertilizer. Therefore, there have been changes here. It's in general terms. To this we apply incentives such as innovation in RDPs, there are several instruments. In any case, it seems to us that during these four years we would have had enough incentive to leave this GMO. I didn't exactly understand Mr Sachaika. The question was whether we could afford to not replace Polish soy protein. I don't really know what's going on, but if I get a written question, I'm gonna answer it because I really didn't understand the question, I'm sorry. The question of Mr Maliszewski is how we intend to implement the future ban on GMOs in the context of the CETA agreement. Let me put it this way: negotiations continued until 2014. Looks like they're over. The decision is Parliament's. I know what Commissioner Andriukaitis said recently because there was a meeting at the Ministry of Agriculture. He said that when it comes to food safety, food safety is in the hands of the Member States. So he doesn't think there's any danger. If this is true, there will be legal grounds for any country to be able to resist. I admit I take that as a good coin. That's all I have to say. I think this discussion at the committee meeting today was very interesting. Of course, there were a lot of emotions, there were the same people, the same arguments, but I think that, however, the increase in production, the increase in production, our recent position as a leader in poultry production unfortunately... [[They're committed.]] ...they commit us to making this economic element take over. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u504	Thank you very much, Minister, for speaking. And now I will ask the rapporteur of the committee of Mr Piotr Polak to speak again. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u505	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! A few words of summary, because we were really dealing with an important topic today at the committee meeting and here in the plenary room. I wanted to thank everyone for the broad, comprehensive discussion on this important topic: Will GMOs be in Poland in the future, or will it not be? Both today's discussion in the plenary room and what some speakers emphasized - that recently, two weeks ago, we decided in this plenary room to modify the system of direct support payments for protein crops, Polish plants, not genetically modified plants, show that the perspective that we are talking about here today is very real, that during these 2 years we will develop a system in which gradually protein in these feed components of GMO plants will be replaced by protein of plants produced in Poland, not already GMOs, is very real. I think, Minister, these two years will actually be enough. Here I would like to stress that in the speech of one of the Members, Mrs Lieder, it was said that if the PiS amendment passes, you will support it. There's no such thing. We now have one draft, from the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. With this bill, it is clearly stated that there is no amendment, only our committee project and we defend this project. I am pleased that all of you, all of the clubs unanimously voted in favour of this project. Indeed, I confirm - because it was only at the end of the discussion that this thread had gone through - that there is no such ban in all the European Union, in all the countries of the Community today. Through our clear decision that from 1 January 2017 in our country we agree and decide that we do not use feeds, genetically modified plants in the production of feed, we would be, we might say, a phenomenon on this scale. Here the State and the Minister raised these arguments that we would thus contribute to the destruction of Polish breeding, especially in the case of poultry production, where we have a really high position, a proven brand on the market not only European but also world-wide, because we hear that large lots of this meat will be sent to China soon and to China. We have to think about it, we have to remember it, and that's what this bill is for. Once again, I thank you all for the detailed, comprehensive discussion on this subject and for the clear position and declarations. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u506	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending certain laws in order to facilitate the sale of food by farmers (print No 935). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development to present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u507	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a bill amending certain laws to facilitate the sale of food by farmers. The project aims or aims at creating better opportunities for the development of production and sales to final consumers, final consumers of food produced on the farm in whole or in part from their own cultivation, farming or farming. So far, we have been dealing, as you probably know, with various other forms, in other words, so-called. direct sales. It really was several different types of sales, it was direct sales, direct deliveries, limited production, local, marginal and was also retail, and now we are introducing agricultural retail. In order not to talk too long, I would like to say this: in order to introduce this possibility of retailing related to the processing of food produced on the farm, we had to propose here a revision of seven laws, i.e.: Laws on the departments of government administration, the Act on income tax on individuals, the Act on flat-rate income tax on certain revenues, then the Act on commercial quality of agri-food products, the Act on Veterinary Inspection, the Act on products of animal origin, as well as the Act on food safety and nutrition. What's so important about this bill? First of all, we point out the competence of the authorities that will supervise the safety of food produced in the framework of agricultural retail trade. In this respect, We have proposed that veterinary inspection, the processing and production of food of animal origin, the sanitary inspection, and the Inspection of Commercial Quality of Agricultural and Food Articles, be carried out on the production of food of animal origin and produced from mixed raw materials, i.e. plant and animal origin, should be supervised by veterinary inspection, on the processing and production of food of plant origin. Of course, we are talking here about three inspections, because for today, in the legal system that exists, there is no new inspection that we are talking about and which is planned to be created from 2018. For today, the situation is that these three inspections will be supervised, but in the future it will be one consolidated inspection which will take place under supervision of the production of this food. The Minister for Agriculture, in agreement with the Minister for Health, will issue a regulation for the purposes of this law, which will regulate the quantitative limits of food to be produced on the farm. Tax rules will also be laid down. In general, tax preferences will be introduced for agricultural producers engaged in retail trade, taking into account inter alia. cases where the slaughter of animals for placing on the market, i.e. for trade, will have to take place in the slaughterhouse, while the production of flour will have to take place at the mill. The principle is that production is to be carried out by its own forces, non-industrial methods on the farm, but it is exceptionally allowed, because this is an obligation, for example, for hygienic reasons, to slaughter animals in the slaughterhouse. Here, this is the exception that does not result in the loss of tax exemption. With regard to hygiene requirements, of course, the Minister of Agriculture will be able to issue a regulation, he will be able to apply certain derogations in terms of construction, certain rules of the organisation, while with regard to hygiene, hygiene requirements, as regards microbiological requirements of a particularly large field of manoeuvre, there is no room for manoeuvre, as EU rules apply in this respect. I would like to say this: this law has been expected by farmers for several years, it has been proposed to introduce various solutions, including the Kukiz club law, while the government has developed its project, which we are presenting to you right now. As far as tax solutions are concerned, the farmer will be able to sell the food produced on the farm up to 20 000. PLN will be exempt from tax, while after exceeding this amount or the limits set out in the regulation it will be able to report to the tax office the desire to be taxed on a flat-rate tax of 2%, but, of course, to benefit from this, it will be underlined, it will have to produce its own forces and non-industrial methods. That's what it looks like to a general extent. If there's any questions, I'd be happy to answer them.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u508	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I will ask Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u509	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! There are few laws as expected by farmers as this will lead to the legal sale on the market of first-processing products, not only raw, unprocessed, but also processed, both plant and animal products. I can say that the Polish village has been waiting for this bill for many years. There are also growing expectations not to say - the myth, as far as the role of this law is concerned, begins to live its own life, even though there are no solutions yet. We very much welcome the fact that the Ministry of Agriculture has presented such a project. I would like to present the opinion of the Law and Justice on this project. We're amending seven laws, and the title says it's about making it easier for farmers to sell food. Indeed, this law contains a number of elements which should clarify the situation regarding production and sales opportunities as well as control rules. A good solution is that, in the case of production involving products of animal origin or mixed products, control over these products and over the whole chain passes to veterinary inspection, i.e. one who knows the holding, knows its conditions, the conditions under which animals live, and is as appropriate to also assess the products derived from the processing of those animals. It is also good, even though I know that this has been controversial for some Members, that this possibility has been introduced, particularly with regard to the products to which mixed raw materials are used, and that it has also enabled farmers to buy raw materials from the outside. An example of this can be illustrated by the case of doves with rice which, as a live farmer on his holding, cannot be produced, and therefore the determination that at least 50% must come from his own farming, farming or cultivation. the final product, excluding water, is a reasonable statement. This also applies to the conclusion that the Inspection of Commercial Quality of Agricultural and Food Articles will be competent to supervise the commercial quality of products in agricultural retail trade. However, there are a few questions that we will be trying to get an answer from the Ministry at the meetings of the Committee on Agriculture, which will examine two proposals, including the request made by the Kukiz party, concerning, among others. what the costs of veterinary checks will be, so that it doesn't turn out that - I'm going to use here a famous proverb - a worthless bump. It is also about what will be the requirements for agri-food processing rooms and equipment, so that it does not turn out that among the dear friends the hare dogs ate, that there is actually no progress on what has been so far, because the requirements on the premises and equipment will be so high that farmers who, I understand, will not be able to meet such requirements. What are the quantitative limits? However, it is important that this activity is profitable and at the same time that it does not create unhealthy competition for those who have started processing activities on a slightly larger scale in the countryside and meet other requirements, they bear higher costs, because it will still prove that this sale will eliminate them. I also come to mind - this is the question we will be asking - on the issue of eliminating the so-called. group sales, quite common in Western Europe, where farmers form a sales group, which means that products from several farms are sold by one of these farmers or a member of his family, not that everyone stands next to each other and sells their products on the same market. What mechanisms determine that you do not want to take this into account? I am convinced that this law will launch a process of legalization of existing production, because this production in part of Poland is significant. The point is that it should not take place in the gray area, but under legitimate conditions. This will also encourage further farmers. Tax issue. I understand that this is a proposal for the next year: 20,000. under the existing tax system, and what is more than - taxed on a 2% flat-rate tax. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'd like to make a statement to our club. I believe that this direction of thinking is reasonable, and only the market analysis carried out over the next year - how many farmers will be interested in this action, which is likely to have to be improved - will lead us to further improve it if we have this draft law. This is a good direction and our club will support this bill, but we will also ask these questions at the committee meeting. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u510	Thank you, sir. A statement on behalf of the Civic Platform Club will be made by Mrs Dorota Rutkowska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u511	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club generally welcomes the idea of changes in laws to facilitate farmers' sales of food produced and processed by them. We are in favour of directing the project to further legislative work. The government assumes that the Act is to enter into force from 1 January 2017, so time remains little. However, we believe that the joint Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Public Finance should work on the project, and that is the proposal I will make to your marshals. In order to legitimise and facilitate the sale of food by farmers - as the Minister mentioned - it is necessary to amend as many as seven laws. These include: tax law, regulation of activities related to commercial quality, supervision of food safety, documentation of food disposal. This is quite complicated, but these solutions are expected by both those interested in sales, i.e. farmers and consumers, who increasingly want to buy fresh, domestic food produced in a given area, sold without intermediaries. These solutions also give our farmers and farmers of the European Union a level playing field on food sales. However, it is extremely important to refine the details. On the one hand, all requirements must be met to ensure that the consumer receives a consumer-safe product, on the other hand, we are dealing with a trust fund that accompanies the sales process. Of course, fraud, economic abuse or counterfeiting of food for sale cannot be assumed in advance, so the rules should be clear and so specific as to exclude these opportunities. I would like to give you an example of surveillance of the process whereby meat and meat preparations from slaughter are to be sold in approved slaughterhouses, not from slaughter for own use. The explanatory memorandum states that the proposed solution is a pilot solution before the planned reform of the creation of a single food safety inspection to start operations at the beginning of 2018. So it is a general test before planned institutional changes, which should not for some reason prove to be a failure. Therefore, our concerns are also about the actual costs of food safety oversight, whether they are planned to be too low. The government proposes that the amount of income from agricultural retail trade exempt from income tax be 20 000. PLN per year. The farmers were expecting 40,000. zł. We understand that income tax exemption means a reduction in revenue to the state budget. Assuming it's 10,000. farms will process agricultural products and each will sell them for an amount of 20,000. zł, some 4 million PLN per year will not go to the budget. However, we are looking forward to further work on the project to justify both the number of farmers participating in the RHD - and I would add that the government estimates that they will be about 0.7% interested in this activity. farmers - as well as the amount of the tax exemption. The expected effect of these measures is to increase the number of working farms operating in the agricultural retail trade, which will be subject to registration by the competent authorities, namely the Veterinary Inspection or the State Sanitary Inspection. Let us hope that these rules will not discourage farmers - as Mr Ardanowski has already pointed out - and will stimulate the development of entrepreneurship in the countryside. As I said at the outset, the Civic Platform Club is in favour of further proceding the project and proposes that two committees deal with it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u512	Mr Jarosław Sachajko, the Kukiz club15, will make a statement on behalf of this club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u513	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz club15 on the government draft law amending certain laws in order to facilitate the sale of food by farmers. This project was brought to the Sejm less than a month ago and is already being processed, while the Kukiz Posel Club15 submitted a similar project to the hands of the Marshal of the Sejm at the beginning of January, and he had his first reading less than a month ago. Nevertheless, we are pleased that the subject of farmers' food sales has been noticed by the government. [[You have to have a step.]] I will draw the attention of the High House to the fact that our project has been prepared by farmers themselves and is the voice of a broad group of people. In the framework of the consultation, the Kukiz15 law supported more than 15 thousand. individuals and 200 organisations and institutions representing around 350 000. citizens. I am very pleased that the government supports and presents our projects and ideas as its own. But I would ask you to speed things up, because 10 months of waiting for a government project is way too long. It is also a pity that in this long time the government has lost somewhere the idea of a project which is to bring to the necessary minimum bureaucracy, control requirements and formalities. The Poselski Kukiz Club15 has long paid attention to the need to equip Polish farmers with the same tools as farmers from other Member States of the European Union. The development of entrepreneurship in the countryside is a necessary part of the implementation of the concept of multifunctional development, and the acquisition of alternative sources of income largely determines the future and prosperity of Polish rural families. We are all aware that Polish agricultural policy is based on small and medium-sized family farms. This translates into good quality food, but it is unacceptable to pursue such a policy, which at the same time condemns Polish farmers to poverty and poverty. It is necessary to promote and support entrepreneurship in rural areas, and the only way to prevent rural populations from leaving for cities is to enable a farmer to raise income from activities other than the production of basic raw materials on the ground, using the farm stock. Allowing farmers to sell legally produced and processed food according to clear, transparent, uncomplicated rules is a tool for which Polish farmers and consumers have been waiting for a long time. At present such sales still take place, only in the grey zone, which is an undesirable phenomenon not only from the state, but also from farmers and consumers themselves. The solution allowing farmers to sell their food is also beneficial from the point of view of consumers. It will provide them with access to healthy, fresh, naturally produced and processed food. This is particularly important from the perspective of the upcoming CETA agreement, which will result in a mass of unhealthy, poor quality food, full of chemicals, the only advantage of which will be a low price. We know that the bill is to serve the Polish village, so it will receive our support. At the same time, I ask that it be directed to work in committee to make amendments aimed at simplifying procedures, limiting controls and requirements to the minimum necessary, as the government's proposal on control, requirements, formalism is virtually no different from what controls, requirements and burdens farmers are burdened with in the current legal state. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u514	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mrs Ewa Lieder to make a statement on behalf of the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u515	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The current rules governing the marketing and processing of food set out three levels for the implementation of this activity. The first is industrial processing and marketing plants without any area and quantitative restrictions. The second is the production of food as part of a marginal, local and limited activity, commonly called MOL. The third is so-called. direct sales from agricultural holdings. While the first two are functioning properly, the direct sales activity in practice is not functioning and the reason is the legal regulations designed so that they do not allow the economic balance of such activities. On the one hand, we have requirements related to hygiene and food safety, often set at a level that is not adequate to the real risks, and on the other hand, restrictions on sales opportunities which do not allow sales to cover the costs of meeting the conditions laid down by the Veterinary Inspection and the State Sanitary Inspection. It is therefore necessary to amend national law in order to make it possible to sell directly from agricultural holdings. The possibilities for changes to national law are limited by the need to comply with European Union law. The Union regulations allow national regulations other than the Union, provided that the area of trade is restricted to the local market and quantitative limits are set and that the manufacturer can be identified. The production and sale of food products in Poland is subject to a number of legal regulations, which are defined both by national law and by the legal documents of the European Union. These regulations concern both taxation and registration and safety of foodstuffs, raw materials, intermediate products and products used for animal and vegetable production placed on the market. There are as many as five legal acts regulating the production and marketing of food which affect the regulation of direct sales. I'm not going to replace them. The Law amending certain laws to facilitate the sale of food by farmers proposed by the government will make this sale less easier. Determination of a tax-free amount of 20 000. zł has no financial significance, only unnecessary complicates regulations. Exemption from 2% flat-rate tax of 20 000 PLN is the amount of 400 PLN of savings per year. In addition, it reduces the de minimis aid limit, which is not high for Poland. In addition, this requires changes in several laws. Amendments to the rules governing the sale of food by farmers are needed but should be carried out after consultation with farmers interested in such a form of activity so as not to multiply the rules which remain theoretical. Incomprehensible is the introduction of a low limit - 50% - the share of own production. It's supposed to be helping farmers, not traders. It is reasonable to allow farmers to use the services of slaughter and post-mortem treatment of animals, the production of groats, flour and flakes, but this should be complemented by other services, such as squeezing fruit and vegetable juices. What farmers expect and need is the possibility of processing and selling products from their own farm. This sale must be possible on the local market, without limiting production and markets. The basis is the possibility of selling at local commercial and catering outlets selling to the final consumer. The restrictions on production must take into account such turnover as to cover the necessary costs related to food safety regulations. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1c the return from own cultivation, farming or farming was deleted, i.e. trade in plant and animal products was allowed. This is far too far-reaching a change, allowing unfair competition against other traders. Only agricultural producers offering their own production should be exempt from the tax in the context of agricultural production. The Act creates a new concept: agricultural retail trade, which will create additional legal chaos. At the same time, it does not remove barriers to the development of direct sales from agricultural holdings. Chaos will also bring about changes in competence in the Veterinary Inspection and the State Sanitary Inspection. In conclusion, it is not appropriate to introduce the proposed amendments. Work needs to be done on changes to the rules governing direct sales. Despite our various comments, the project is very much needed, and farmers and consumers are looking forward to it. Therefore, the Modern Posel Club is in favour of directing this amendment to further legislative work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u516	Thank you very much. And on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club, I would like to ask Mr Mirosław Maliszewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u517	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Each debate, especially in the parliament, which concerns an increase in the ability of Polish agriculture to function, to achieve revenue, is a debate that deserves attention. This debate is also today's debate. Although the main activity of the farmer is to produce food, sell it and generate income from it and, preferably, profit, there is a large group of farms in Poland which, for various reasons, mainly due to insufficient production potential, credit potential or processing potential, are unable to achieve profit. Farmers in this case are unable to maintain their farm, their family on the basis of this basic agricultural model, i.e. on the basis of the production of raw materials and selling them on the market. Therefore, a few years ago, we adopted as the coalition of that time an appropriate law to enable farmers to sell directly, i.e. to enable farmers to process their products and achieve the so-called ones. the added value, i.e. the additional margin, so that the farmer participates in the processing of food and thus achieves an additional source of income. And as statistics show, it was enjoyed by Polish farmers, an increasing number of farms after this year's income goes up and this practice is developing. However, farmers' expectations are such as to make production and sales even easier to achieve this income so that it is even easier to do so. And here we have the bill presented today on the alleged facilitations to be applied in order to achieve these revenues. I have examined this law very thoroughly, also in the context of this project, which was discussed a few days ago, and actually I did not find these facilitations, because replacing the control of one inspection, the supervision of one inspection for the supervision of the other, i.e. the health inspector for the Veterinary Inspection, is for the farmer no change, that is just the replacement of who is supervising. There is nothing in this law that farmers expect, and so there is no facilitation of procedures, there is no reduction of phytosanitary or hygiene requirements, and there is no possibility of selling these products to customers other than at the market, at the fair, there is no possibility of selling these products to restaurants, to the bar, and there is no possibility of selling it through shops that operate in a given area, or through shops that have a slightly larger dimension in terms of functioning. So where really are the facilitations in this bill that are going to improve the situation? This project can be compared to the law that exists today, to the law that was established a few days ago. In general, there is no madness. The malicious say even clearly that this is a law on lovebirds with rice, not a law on how to make farmers increase their income. I would say this: even if this law in this form enters into force or even if we improve it to a small extent, because it will probably not be for wider changes to the permit, it will not cause agriculture, supposedly collapsing, to move away from the job and the body of the world, because it is only marginal activity, in this dimension it will be completely marginal. Even when it comes to tax facilitation, they are illusory, very small. I would like to say that, despite these reservations, it is worth noting that you have decided to support in this project what we did a few years ago to move towards a change in this area. We will propose detailed changes in the committee to make real facilitations. For this reason alone, we are not proposing today to reject this project, we are not saying that it is harmful. This project should be addressed to the committee, work on it and make it easier, not to replace supervision of one institution to another, on the one that wants to produce. When we talk about making it easier to slaughter at a slaughterhouse, it is not possible to slaughter vertebrates elsewhere today. Today on a farm such slaughter cannot be carried out, so this is just an explanation of what was introduced a few years ago. I'll say it again: there's no madness. This is a law on doves with rice rather than on the facilitation of the sale of products directly by farmers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u518	Thank you very much. I would ask Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan to speak on behalf of the Circle of Members of the Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u519	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the government draft law amending certain laws to facilitate the sale of food by farmers. The contested bill is another project aimed at helping Polish farmers. These regulations are designed to facilitate agricultural retail sales, which, in the current legal state, face many barriers, inter alia. administrative. The lack of clearly defined supervisory authorities for farmers to sell to final consumers products processed from their own cultivation, farming or farming, and the different tax rules for this sale, resulting from an ambiguous determination when it is exempt from income tax and when it is not, are factors which constitute significant obstacles to the further development of agricultural retail sales. The current shortcomings in this matter are undoubtedly detrimental to Polish farmers, but, which is equally important, they also hinder access to products offered by them to final consumers. In order to address this situation, applicants have drawn up a draft law aimed at eliminating existing barriers. According to the regulations in question, following registration of agricultural retail sales, respectively in the State Sanitary Inspection or Veterinary Inspection, food safety surveillance in the case of products of animal origin and food containing food of non-animal origin and products of animal origin will be carried out by the Veterinary Inspection. In the case of the production and placing on the market of foodstuffs of non-animal origin in the framework of agricultural retail trade, the supervision of these activities will remain the responsibility of the State Sanitary Inspection. Monitoring of the commercial quality of food will be carried out by the Agricultural and Food Articles Trade Quality Inspection. In addition, the project involves a number of changes at the statutory level aimed at harmonising the tax authorities' approach to the forms of taxation carried out by farmers in the retail trade. This is to be served by introducing tax preferences for agricultural producers engaged in agricultural retail trade and by granting the Minister responsible for agriculture, in agreement with the Minister responsible for health, the competence to establish, by means of regulations, limits on the size of the activities carried out by one operator in the framework of agricultural retail trade and the hygiene requirements for those operators. Given that the proposed changes aim to create better opportunities for Polish farmers to develop their production and sales to final consumers of food produced in whole or in part from their own cultivation, farming or breeding, the Free and Solidarnia Circle supports the further process of this project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u520	Thank you very much, Member. 13 Members have entered the list of people who want to ask a question. Is anyone else up for it? There isn't. I'm closing the list. Question time - 1 minute. Please, we begin with Mr Tomasz Kostusia, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u521	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The determination of the quantity that a farmer will be able to sell in retail sales raises many questions and doubts. We are looking at a proposal to introduce a new concept - the conduct of agricultural retail trade. Consequently, this is intended to make it easier for farmers to sell their own products. However, the determination of quantities and additional prohibitions or orders may undermine the scheme to facilitate trade in farmers. Hence my questions regarding the above-mentioned tightening of the maximum volume of sales of goods: What are the values? What products will they cover? What is the ratio of these quantities to the possibility of producing medium-sized agricultural holdings? What requirements will the farmer have to meet in order to be able to sell in the framework of agricultural retail trade? Allowing farmers to sell their own products also involves ensuring the safety of people who buy such goods. How the Ministry will provide [[♪ The bell ♪]] the safety of consumers who would like to buy such goods? What are the conditions to be met by the farmer in order for the country to allow its goods to be marketed? How will safety conditions be ensured so that the farmer is free to sell his products? Finally, I would also ask the Minister to present the differences in the projects that concern agricultural retail trade, the government project and the Kukiz club project15. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u522	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, the Civic Platform Club. Please, sir, ask me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u523	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The issue of farmers' food sales has been well addressed in many countries, for example. through a network of Dorfladen stores, very popular in Germany and Austria. Here is the question: Is this experience taken into account when creating this project? There the sale of food by farmers is organised and conducted collectively, i.e. grouply. The shops work well, as an important part of the supply of the rural population. When I look at the formula of agricultural retail trade in the project, I don't see how that's possible. It is worth considering during the committee's work. And one more thing because of the limited time. It is a requirement that the feed of products produced on the farm is at least 50% in the food sold. Please analyse the culinary recipe for doves referred to in the justification of the project in order to determine how cumbersome and inconspicuous this criterion is. How's that? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is it gonna get complicated when we add tomato sauce to the doves? Please examine this question, for it will simply be a problem. [[Joy in the Chamber]] It is worth considering to format it differently. At the same time, the question of self-help or neighbouring cooperation should be considered again in this whole matter. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u524	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u525	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed law is a step in the right direction. Polish farmers produce excellent, tasty, healthy food for their own use and enable them to sell these products, seems to be supported by a vast majority of Members. The proposed law will provide real opportunities for farmers intending to produce and sell to final consumers various products: meat, milk, composite products, processed fruit, vegetables, bread, confectionery and non-meat garage products. The Act proposes that the Veterinary Inspection be carried out in the case of products of animal origin and food containing food of non-animal origin and products of animal origin, sanitary inspection in the case of plant products. Only the Regulation of the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development will lay down health requirements for operators of agricultural retail trade. My question concerns this issue. He moved it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr Ardanowski, for example. To date, the parliamentary projects under discussion have not been able to overcome the barrier to describing these requirements. Does the Ministry have an idea of what model it will model in creating these requirements, because it looks different in different countries, and in the case of food tests carried out, who will bear their costs and will not be charged to farmers? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u526	Thank you very much, sir. The next question will be asked by Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u527	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The rules that would enable farmers to sell their products were unlucky in the previous term of the Sejm. The hard work of the subcommittee led by Mrs Dorota Niedziela, in which I also had the privilege of working, was killed after 2 years by the then Minister of Health, who said no and the end, and was after the interview. But we managed to get... [[A regulation.]] ...a great deal of knowledge about how these sales work in the countries of the European Union, what are the solutions, even regional ones, because the Office of Sejm Analysis also prepared them for us. Luckily, the same people I see next to the Minister were also involved in gathering this knowledge, so this knowledge is not the secret knowledge that remains in the Sejm, but this is also the knowledge that the Ministry of Agriculture has. Therefore, these questions concerning the details of equipment, tools, the way in which production and sales are organised are most appropriate. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And if there are solutions anywhere in Europe that could be beneficial to us, they should be introduced and then only in Brussels should we try... if Brussels questioned it, then try to defend it. On the other hand, all solutions that facilitate direct sales in Europe should be applied in Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u528	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u529	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I would like to support this question as much as possible and this request that we have just heard from Mr Ardanowski. We should create maximum open rules, as is the case in the European Union. You were talking about hygiene standards. The devil is always in the details, and that's what farmers fear. At the away meeting, we heard from the Minister that if there was production, meat processing, there would have to be washing walls. We know what washing walls mean here - tiles from top to bottom. I'd like to ask if if I want to process one pig, make a sausage out of one pig or 20 ducks, I'm actually going to have to remodel the whole kitchen so it's compatible. [[♪ The bell ♪]] With these standards. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u530	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Kwitek, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u531	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The amendment of the law is very expected by food producers as well as consumers. The law, which entered into force at the beginning of the year, did not meet expectations as it did not allow for the sale of a small number of processed products of plant and mixed origin produced on agricultural holdings using simple and traditional techniques, based on the food produced on these farms. The revision of the rules will allow consumers to sell directly to food produced from their own cultivation, farming and farming. First of all, this will shorten the chain of intermediaries on the way from producer to consumer. In particular, producers and consumers themselves will benefit from this, as farmers will have the opportunity to obtain additional sources of income, as well as buyers who will be able to source healthy, traditional, natural food. Minister, I have a question: Is the tax exemption from which the farmer [[♪ The bell ♪]] He'll be able to use up to 20,000. will be treated as de minimis aid? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u532	Thank you very much. Mrs Dorota Niedziela, Club Civic Platform. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u533	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm glad this project came along. I think it's -- just to read it quickly -- a continuation of work, of what we've been creating for four years. Here, like Mr Ardanowski, I just want to remind you - for those who have not dealt with this before - that there is a significant difference between European solutions and Polish solutions. It is based on the fact that the European farmer is a taxable person and is a normal taxable person. We have this problem, but it's not unsolvable, I think. It's a basic question. If we are talking about this - it is good that there is a distinction between this agricultural retail trade - I will not agree with the modern Member because direct sales are strictly defined in the EU directives. Direct sales concern only raw materials. You can't talk about direct sales. This is a definition that comes directly from the EU directive. Direct sales concern agriculture, only raw materials. You can't process anything. If you're processing, you're an entrepreneur. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It requires completely different legal solutions when it comes to tax and sanitation. On the other hand, Minister, I ask what we have done, but only partially, for a really reasonable conversation with the Minister of Health about the issue of a good practice guide. Let me just remind you that a good practice guide are the needs written in the kitchens, as Mr Sachaiko said, which means that your landlady can process small quantities of his products on her farm without additional HACCPs - these are good practices - unlike HACCP requirements, which apply only to large processing plants. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u534	Thank you very much, Member. The next question will be asked by Leszek Korzeniowski, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u535	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This day is quite important to me when it comes to such observation. I am surprised to see that there are probably two centers of agriculture command, i.e. that there are two centres within the framework of the PiS: one is government, the other is with Mr Ardanowski, because all the comments he made here to the Minister for this bill show that something has happened between you. It's either conflict or competition. [[There isn't.]] But that's not what we were gonna talk about. Ladies and gentlemen, I question one thing. These farms were supposed to be 10,000, 20,000. PLN per farm, which is 200 million PLN. This represents 12% value of sales of all food in Poland. On the other hand, with regard to the costs presented here, the budget loss alone is 8 million plus the Veterinary Inspection - probably 25 [[♪ The bell ♪]] - plus the rest, other inspections. I think it'd be worth 50 million. And now my question: Is it worth investing 50 million from the budget so that the farmer can sell for 200? This ratio is terrible. There's no business in this business. If this doesn't change, I think this business should be closed. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u536	Thank you very much. I would like to ask you another question, Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u537	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! My question is: Isn't there too much sharpening and regulations? Because direct sales are designed to free entrepreneurship in the countryside, so that farmers can sell their products without control of three inspections, and then - from the following year - superinspection. Minister, here I will also ask a question relating to the Kukiz project15, because we submitted this project already in January, it has been almost a year. This project is praised and praised by law and justice politicians and opposition clubs. Why didn't we investigate this project? We had a whole year to do this, we could work out a project that would have come into force from January, farmers could enjoy it, and they could make money, and now we are working on another project. Let us support good ideas, including the opposition, because that is the job of parliamentarians, not the job of parliamentarians. [[♪ The bell ♪]] To outrun each other when it comes to the same ideas, stealing ideas, and then putting them together as your own. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u538	Thank you very much. Mr Stefan Romecki, also the Kukiz Club15, joined the question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u539	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! How is direct sales supposed to look under your law if three inspections are to oversee farmers? Question: "Do you not trust farmers?" You're deciding on this bill right now because you signed the ceta agreement? Why have farmers been waiting a year for this project? PiS won the country election and forgot the farmers. Why did you ignore the project of the Kukiz club 15 10 months ago? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u540	Thank you very much. I ask Mr Piotr Polak, the Law and Justice Club, to ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u541	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, A well-functioning direct sales can and should be an opportunity and hope for Polish farmers, especially those who have small, non-subsistence farms. Maybe they do not produce intensively, but they produce traditional method of healthy Polish life. It would be good if this food could be processed, processed and sold directly. This is where the thread goes. I wanted to ask the Minister if you have an analysis of the existing provisions on direct sales, because there have already been several proposals for the provisions of these laws. How many farmers have used this so far? What volume of production has been sold so far and estimated by the Ministry [[♪ The bell ♪]] the resolution of this new law? What volume of production and quantities, theoretically, will be used by farmers who wish to benefit from this law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u542	Thank you, sir. And Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, the club of the Polish People's Party, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u543	I will no longer discuss the subject of doves with grits, which are the essence of this law, but I want to ask about another product, which is often associated with doves with grits, it is a complementary product, and there is nothing about it in the act. Namely, we see in Western European countries in many places, in many regions, that farmers also have the possibility to produce alcohol and sell it on local markets, in those places which are enshrined in the Act, but also in those places which are not in the Act, i.e. bars, restaurants. I'm thinking of local beers produced on farms made from fruit, e.g. I'm thinking about ciders. I'm thinking about tinctures. I don't think about moonshine here. The question is this: Is it in the agricultural department to think that also the production of these products, complementary to doves with rice, to consider direct sales and to give farmers the opportunity to produce and generate additional income, or is there no such thinking? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u544	Thank you very much. And the last question will be asked by Mrs Joanna Borowiak, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u545	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The draft law aimed at facilitating the sale of food by farmers is valid and long-awaited. The opposition claims that the law will facilitate agricultural retail sales to a negligible extent, that the requirements imposed on farmers will be too complex and costly. These are opposition concerns. So I have a question for you. Can farmers be calm? Has the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development carried out analyses, consulted farmers and has knowledge that the requirements contained in the project are accepted by farmers? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u546	Thank you very much. With this question, we have exhausted the list of people enrolled in the vote. At this point, please speak again to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Minister Ewa Lech. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u547	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I tried hard to write down the questions, maybe they don't sound exactly like that, but I'll try to answer them. The first question, maybe the most important question is to dispel the doubts. One of the questions concerned the difference between the provisions of the law proposed by the Kukiz club15 and the government project. Now, with regard to the draft Kukiz Act15, there are a lot of misunderstandings that result from the definition. The return on direct sales is used as a sale to the final consumer and to other retail establishments. And that is the fundamental difference, because direct sales mainly concern unprocessed food, as Mrs Niedziela has already said, and retail trade concerns the sale of processed and unprocessed food. In the case of direct sales referred to by Kukiz15, we are dealing with national rules that can be applied. On the other hand, this law also refers to processed foods for which mandatory production conditions are laid down in Union law. So, in general, there are a lot of misunderstandings, and it is us who, in the end, have created a definition of agricultural retail. That is the difference that agricultural retail trade will take into account processed and unprocessed food, but dedicated only to the final consumer. By the way, there was a question about group sales. In the case of agricultural retail trade, group sales are not envisaged. Such sales are taken into account for direct sales, so this will not be possible here. In order to benefit from the tax exemption, the farmer will have to do so alone or with the help of family members in places for sale. The question was, what are the numbers going to be? In addition to the law, we submit a regulation, a draft regulation of the Minister of Agriculture, where there are certain quantitative limits, which of course relate, for example. in the case of raw materials of plant origin, to area 10 ha. In any case, it seems that the State has such a regulation as well. As regards the description of the requirements, which model and costs of research, who will bear them, and who will pay for these studies, the requirements, please countries, for processed food, are defined - and there is no room for manoeuvre - in EU legislation, but this does not mean that certain mild derogations cannot be applied. We have referred the draft regulation to 100 organisations for consultation on what requirements they propose to apply, and I would like to say that if such a regulation appears and is likely to appear, it must be notified to the European Commission and to the Member States. However, speaking here about EU legislation, I mean the rules that say that the requirements are to be adapted to the production volume, so the district veterinarian, seeing the farm, the conditions in it, and the production volume that will be produced there, will determine the requirements. Mr Sachaiko asked about the tiles. Well, there will be no requirement that they must be shallow. This is about the surface, whether it will be washable - it must be a smooth surface, washable, easy to keep clean. That doesn't mean it's shallow, it's not written anywhere, and it hasn't been written in any regulations so far. The question was whether the tax exemption was up to $20,000. zł will be de minimis aid. Yeah, it'll be de minimis aid. Mrs Niedziela asked the Minister of Health to issue a guide on good practice. Of course, such a tutorial and such help a farmer who will be involved in agricultural retail trade will always get in the district veterinary inspector, that will not be a problem. As far as the costs of implementing this law are concerned, in the impact assessment we presented PLN 23 million with a small surplus. This is mainly the case for posts and surveillance costs as regards the Veterinary Inspection. What I'm saying is... Why was the Kukiz project ignored15? It is not ignored, it is simply a lot of understatements and conflicting records in this law, but this sort of misunderstandings. I would like to make it clear that EU law makes it more demanding for food production, not only depending on production volume, depending on whether food is processed or not, but also on who it is dedicated to. So here, as far as hygiene requirements are concerned, in terms of design requirements for the organisation of production, derogations will certainly be possible. On the other hand, food safety and quality requirements - it is about micro-geological indicators - unfortunately they will have to be met, but of course all of this will be based on risk analysis. The district veterinarian, together with the farmer, will determine the frequency of the tests and the direction of the tests. The question was whether we had an analysis of the number of farmers who are currently engaged in retail trade. According to the information we have from the health inspection, there are 311 such farmers at national level. This indicates, for example, that the solution that is currently in operation is not of particular interest to farmers. As far as alcohol is concerned, this problem is more about excise duty, and if such alcohol were to be produced on the farm, there would be no tax exemption. That's what I'm saying on the basis of the information I have, but I think the finance minister, if he's at the committee meeting, will be able to explain the matter. I think that's it. [[Voice from the room: Okay.]] That's all.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u548	If so, thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer to the government draft law amending certain laws in order to facilitate the sale of food by farmers included in print No. 935 to the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for consideration of the project. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. That concludes this item. We proceed to the examination of item 15. of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Act on the universal obligation to defend the Republic of Poland and some other laws (print No 966). I ask the Minister of National Defence Antoni Macierewicz to present the justification for the project. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u549	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Messengers, Gentlemen! I have the honour to submit to the High House a bill amending the Act on the universal obligation to defend the Republic of Poland and some other laws, print No. 966 - a project the essence of which is to introduce into the system of Polish Armed Forces territorial defence. The project assumes the creation of another independent type of Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland - as I said: Territorial Defence Forces - together with the appointment of the commander of these troops to carry out their opinions with the help of the Commander of the Territorial Defence Army. The commander of the Territorial Defence Army will be the third next to the operational commander and general commander of types of Armed Forces appointed by the President of the Republic of Poland. I am talking about matters which are obvious, which are trivial, which result directly from the legal system in force in the Republic of Poland, and everyone, even without being a member of the Committee on National Defence in the past, even without being Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence, does not even lead... [[Voice from the room: Oh, it's a conference.]] ...without ever serving as Minister of National Defence in the Republic of Poland, he knows that very well. I stress this because of the massive, disgraceful, lying propaganda campaign against the security of the Republic of Poland, and in particular against the expansion of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland and the strengthening of these Armed Forces... [[And rolling up the upgrades.]] ...thanks to the introduction of the third type of Armed Forces, the Territorial Defence Army, under the motto... [[Or five?]] [[Third or fifth?]] Lying, untrue, that these armies would be a kind of common movement, that they would be a kind of private... [[Minister's farm.]] ...a farm of the Minister of National Defence, as if they were to perform a different function than just... [[Hear, hear.]] ...strengthening, expanding the troops of the Republic of Poland and guaranteeing greater security of the Republic of Poland. And I want to say, High Izbo, that at a time when such propaganda is practiced by individuals... [[Traitors, traitors.]] ...incompetent, e.g. journalists who do not know it can be said: it is difficult, the mistake of incompetent people. The point is that these are lies made with a stone face by people who perform the highest functions in the defence system of the Republic of Poland and repeat these lies with stubbornness, therefore it is impossible to call it anything else... [[But maybe something about the project, Minister.]] ...consciously... [[Traitor, traitor.]] ...to damage the security of the state. And just because that's what it is, I dare to call these clichés and the obvious here. So, I repeat, the Territorial Defence Army will be a new type of Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland and the commander will be the third next to the operational commander and general commander of the types of Armed Forces appointed by the President and, of course, in accordance with the article. 1 of the Act of 14 December 1995 on the Office of the Minister of National Defence, all these commanders will be subject to and will be subject to both the authority of the President over the Armed Forces and the Minister of Defence, which implements this authority, as it is known, because the President exercises his sovereignty through the Minister of National Defence. This new type of Armed Forces will be able to cooperate with operational forces in a situation of threat to state security, but what needs to be stressed will also be able to carry out combat activities on its own and to carry out rescue and similar actions in crisis situations, natural disasters, as well as to organise and conduct local self-defense. There'll be more... And this, High Izbo, as it turned out during the preparation and discussion of this project, especially happened with salt in the eye of people who present themselves today as opposition, and who should be said more often to be active people... [[Traitors, traitors.]] ...to the detriment of the interest of Polish security. For, indeed, I admit that this is the case, namely, that these armies will be in a special way a school of patriotic education and commitment to local communities. We confess to this sin. Yes, that's what we want the Territorial Defence Forces to do. And I am astonished here, why this function is so painful for people who claim to be an opposition, but who claim to be Members of the Republic of Poland who claim to represent the interests of Poland. I don't understand why patriotism, why commitment to the local community hurts so much. In this respect, the Territorial Defence Forces will work widely in particular with developing in recent years, impressively developing, structures and pro-defence organisations. It is worth recalling that this development of pro-defence structures has become particularly dynamic in recent years, especially after 2014, when it has proven that the systematic weakening of the Armed Forces and the State's security system by the then ruling in broad national and social consciousness leaves society without due protection. In this situation, especially youth communities have decided to take on their shoulders to the extent that they were capable of doing so, and some of their achievements are really impressive, necessary... [[Misiewicz, Misiewicz.]] ...defense of the local community. With these pro-defence structures, whose merit to raise national awareness in the field of threats and defence is enormous, the Territorial Defence Forces will cooperate. And this has been particularly highlighted and legally guaranteed in this law. I would like to inform the High House that the headquarters of the three brigades and four battalions are currently being formed. By the end of this year, the country's numerical state of the Territorial Defence Army will reach at least 3000. soldiers. In 2017, three more brigades from around 18 thousand will be formed. soldiers, and by 2019 the State of the Territorial Defence Army of the country will reach almost 53 thousand. Soldiers in 17 brigades and 63 battalions. It should be stressed that the costs of setting up and subsequent maintenance of these troops were set at a reasonable, reasonable level, appropriate to the tasks of these troops. In 2016 this will be a total amount of approx. PLN 390 million in 2017, 630 700 thousand. PLN, while expenditure will reach a total of PLN 3600 million between 2016 and 2019. The project introduces a new type of active military service: territorial military service, which will be a permanent service as an active military service. [[Weekend.]] This service, in accordance with Article. 98 of the new law will be in two forms. First, as a rotational service as defined in the plan of the commander of the military unit at least two days a month. This will be the period of service of the military unit's structures and posts. Secondly, as a service available in parallel to the pursuit of work and civil life. It provides for participation in specialized courses, trainings, training courses for military habits and habits as well as self-education. The project introduces the principle of directing soldiers appointed for the first time to territorial military service for basic training of at least 16 days, after which they will take a military oath according to the general rota of the Polish Armed Forces, while the service period of the territorial defence soldiers itself will last from one to six years, with the possibility of extending for further periods. These soldiers will be given a wide range of opportunities for military professional development in the field of territorial defence, i.e. acquiring new skills, promoting and receiving awards. After 3 years of service they will gain priority, and this is a special privilege, in calling for candidate and professional military service. The project assumes priority in the appointment to the territorial military service of members of pro-defence organisations and graduates of profiled military classes. I have already stressed that the merit of this youth, which has led to the creation of a wide network of over a dozen thousand, in fact over a hundred thousand networks of defence structures and organizations and an even larger network of military classes, uniform military classes, is special. We felt that she had to find her expression in this law, which is why she had priority in accessing the candidate service and the professional service. The project provides for the granting to soldiers of a monthly territorial defence allowance for their readiness to perform a territorial military service, to continuously improve their physical fitness and professional qualifications and to maintain their ability to act immediately in rotational form. It should be stressed that the territorial defence soldiers will be obliged to be in constant readiness for immediate service. The allowances in question shall be established by the Minister for National Defence by means of a special regulation. This amount is expected to amount to at least 10% for a serial. salary of a professional soldier, i.e. About 300,000. zł. In addition, soldiers will receive nearly PLN 200 for each part of the exercises and additions. In total, this is expected to mean more than 500 PLN for a soldier of professional territorial protection and for an officer of more than 600 PLN. The project also includes solutions that provide an opportunity to take up - this is an extremely important element, which must be mentioned - cooperation between the Territorial Defence Forces and existing paramilitary structures in Poland, such as the Railway Guard, the Forest Guard and the Fire Department. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 11c paragraph. Points 5 and 6 of the revised Act specify the principles of cooperation between the Territorial Defence Forces and the authorities and other bodies responsible for defence and disaster control. As the High House sees, as you can see, the project is holistic, taking full account of all standards, rules, regulations and legislation... [[It's shocking.]] ...in force in the Armed Forces, hierarchical structure, unambiguous submission and responsibility of individual authorities of the Republic of Poland. [[Perfect.]] There is no place here for any freedom, politicality, partying or any other perversions that so often took place in the past towards the Polish Army. In this case, such actions are absolutely excluded. Finally, the most important thing must be added: the establishment of the Territorial Defence Army of the country is a response to a number of needs which have been particularly dramatic as a result of the events of recent years. In a broad social dimension, they were noticed at the time of the war of the Russian Federation against Ukraine, the occupation of Crimea and the occupation of Donbass. But this desire of the Russian Federation to rebuild its imperial capabilities was evidently seen much earlier. Russia's aggression on Georgia was a sign of this. It was then that President Lech Kaczyński at the big rally in Tbilisi, where Russian troops marching to the capital of Georgia, said: today Georgia, tomorrow the Baltic countries, then Ukraine, and then perhaps Poland. These words were not noticed in Poland at the time, although the words and actions that President Lech Kaczyński then took saved Ukraine's independence. This attitude presented by the president and the national elite associated with him then dramatically cost these people in Smoleńsk, where the Polish national elite was destroyed, which was also a sign of the growing drama of the international situation. I am talking about this because at that time a document was created, which is a disgrace in the political actions of the then governments and the then establishment, called the White Book of National Security of the Republic of Poland, in which the thesis was formulated at that time that there will be no war in Europe for the next 20 years, in which the thesis is formulated that Poland is absolutely safe, in which the the thesis is formulated that we are not in any danger from the East. The Poles realized it was different. Then this great pro-defence movement was born visible in the structures that had been mentioned so far. Then, in response to the increasing Russian aggression, which took the form of hybrid action, worldwide, but especially in Europe and the United States, an adequate response to this type of threat was sought. As soon as the project of building the Territorial Defence Army of the country was formulated in Poland, from all NATO countries we met with full approval of this action as an adequate response to hybrid threats. Suffice it to say that this project was created in close cooperation and in cooperation with the officers of the U.S. National Guard, that it received a clear approval of the German army officer corps... [[And did Mr. D'Amato also cooperate?]] ...that it is modelled on many solutions that are used in the British army. I mention this because, contrary to the various lying, false accusations of the Territorial Defence Army, they will not in any way diminish or limit the actions carried out and planned to date aimed at both the development of combat capabilities and the numerical development of the existing operational forces. On the contrary, they will increase these opportunities and complement them where they have been small so far. Finally, I would like to say that all kinds of charges in this matter arise either from ignorance or from evil will. [[Or traitors.]] I can give the High House good news, good information, and I'm handing it over because I want to warn you of either ignorance or willful accusations. This year, for the first time in 8 years, all financials intended to arm the Polish army will be used. [[By the end of September 24%.]] There's not gonna be a situation where the Armed Forces budget... [[But not for coal?]] ...the hard effort of the Polish nation devoted to its security will be wasted and returned, not exploited by the incompetence of politicians and the lack of competence of their officials. [[And Dâmato is still here.]] The territorial defence forces will not restrict this budget to any extent. The territorial defence forces will increase the fighting capabilities of the Polish army and will make this spirit of readiness to defend the nation and homeland, which today can be seen so widely, give - as its effect and effect - reinforcement of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland and increase the defence of our country. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Marshal Marek Kuchciński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u550	There you go. I would like to inform you that in the discussion on this item, we will hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mr Michał Jach, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u551	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! On behalf of the club Law and Justice I have the honour to present the position of the club concerning the government draft law amending the Act on the universal obligation to defend the Republic of Poland and certain other laws, print No. 966. In the electoral programme of Law and Justice, one of the two main priorities was to significantly strengthen the defence capacity of the Republic of Poland. After taking over the government, and so even a year ago, it turned out that the facts of the Armed Forces were far worse than our earlier critical assessment of military security. [[But they fixed it in three days.]] The audit carried out at the Ministry of National Defence was devastating for the previous governments of PO-PSL. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Well, maybe it's cheerful, I'm sorry. The Polish Armed Forces at that time were not able to guarantee the sovereignty of the Republic of Poland. In addition, in the face of the rapidly deteriorating geopolitical environment of Poland there was an urgent need to quickly repair this situation. The management of the Ministry with the Minister of National Defence, Mr Antoni Macierewicz, began urgent remedial work. [[I'm afraid so.]] One of the first decisions of the Minister for National Defence was the appointment of [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] a team to rebuild the Territorial Defence Army. The territorial component is the only relatively fast, relatively inexpensive, but most importantly, effective type of military, which significantly strengthens the military potential of the state. Experiences from the last several years, during the subsequent aggressions of Putinow Russia in Chechnya, Georgia, and in the last three years in Ukraine, show that this type of army, although equipped primarily with individual weapons, but consisting of volunteers motivated by a strong sense of patriotic responsibility for the homeland, can create effective defence against the attack of an aggressor. This is particularly effective under so-called conditions. hybrid war, and that's what we've had, and that's what we're dealing with across our eastern border. In addition, the threat of so-called globalisation is increasing due to increasing globalisation. military activities. Territorial defence can successfully carry out effective actions to neutralise this type of threat. The territorial defence forces are in a relatively short time able to achieve combat readiness to cooperate with the operational forces. [[Faster than the GROM.]] At the same time, the specificity of these troops requires efficient cooperation with the field administration and the state security system. However, this requires appropriate changes to the legal system ensuring that the territorial component is effectively implemented by the public. The law, which we are about to start, introduces regulations that will provide conditions for the formation of further divisions and divisions of territorial defence. This will increase the number of the Polish Army by 53 thousand. trained and well prepared for the task of soldiers. In his speech, Mr Antoni Macierewicz presented the detailed solutions precisely, so I will not focus on these solutions. It is worth pointing out once again that volunteers will apply primarily to this service, [[♪ The bell ♪]] volunteers motivated by a strong sense of patriotism. This guarantees effective service, effective training and effective performance of tasks. The proposed law proposes appropriate solutions to ensure the establishment and effective functioning of the Territorial Defence Forces.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u552	Mr President, you must stop because you are running out of time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u553	Therefore, the Law and Justice Club supports the proposed solutions. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]] Thank you. Mr Cezary Tomczyk, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u554	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Minister, that's very interesting, because you're talking about a lie here. The lie is spoken of by a man who lied about the mistrali, not to mention Smolensk or electromagnetic weapons. But going back to the project itself, first of all, I'd like to dispel a myth. You don't invent gunpowder with this project. Territorial defence exists in Poland. Last year it was decided to set up six battalions for peace and dozens of battalions for crisis. And you know very well that territorial defence is a tool developed in times of crisis. For obvious reasons, we're not talking about details. On the other hand, you want to establish a 50 thousandth formation of the Polish Army completely excluded from the command system. Yes, ma'am, because the commander of territorial defence as the sole commander of types of Armed Forces is directly subject to the Minister of National Defence. Coincidence? Is it a coincidence that it is speculated that the Territorial Defence Army will include members of the ONR and organisations that have repeatedly been in conflict with the law? Coincidence? Is it a coincidence that you're building a formation not in time for W, but in time for peace? Or maybe it's worth a look at the sources and the answers that have already fallen. It's worth a look. for the development of the National Centre for Strategic Studies, whose head was Mr.Szatkowski, currently Deputy Minister in your Government, and whose head is now Mr.Jacek Kotas, attention, Deputy Minister of National Defence in the Government of Jarosław Kaczyński. There we can read about a concept, as noted by authors, consulted with representatives of the Ministry of National Defence. I quote: Territorial defence is a uniformed paramilitary machine-gun formation, which can be an effective preventive measure against anti-government activities, and will increase in a measurable way the operational potential of police formations during peacetime. It's a very dangerous project because it gives politicians who rule the right to dispose of an armed formation that they can use to fight opposition, for example. during anti-government demonstrations, and they take place. By force, anti-government demonstrations are just something that is a sign of your governments. 50,000. the people at the disposal of the PiS, directly subordinate to Minister Macierewicz, this minister from the mistrali, this minister from the Misiewiczs and this minister from the electromagnetic weapons. But that is not all, because according to Minister Antoni Macierewicz's announcement, the objective of territorial defence should be to strengthen the patriotic and Christian foundations of our defence system and the Armed Forces, so that patriotism and the faith of Polish soldiers are the best guarantee of our security. Very interesting concept. So no more modern equipment, not intelligence, not alliances, but faith will be the best guarantee of Polish security. In fact, now all he has to do is pray. It is worth asking the question: Is it going to happen now that there will be drops instead of rifles? Will there be candles instead of flares? And will there be temples instead of bunkers? Because this is actually some concept that we haven't known so far. And I could actually stop there... [[The voice from the hall: That's enough.]] ... because the compromise of this project is on the top scale, but I will add a few more arguments for the full picture. According to this project, territorial defence will be possible after 14 days of training. A soldier. Meanwhile, the Minister predicts, note, here a quote from Minister Macierewicz, that: These are soldiers volunteers of the Territorial Defence Army, not regular army, who are to be the first to face Specnaz... [[Voice from the room: After 14 days.]] ...after 14 days of training. This is actually a very interesting concept. That's really good, because the Minister's explanatory statement states that these are not the only responsibilities of these formations. Well, according to the explanations you made in the bill's explanatory memorandum, after 14 days, they will also fight terrorists. It's really interesting. It may add other priorities, other goals, such as, I don't know, flights to other planets or building a nuclear bomb. I mean, maybe this is actually something you could add to this project. [[Voice from the room: Don't exaggerate.]] It is worth asking, then, what else will the territorial defence soldiers do? It is worth asking whether it is true that the briefings for officers are being conducted by Mr. Misiewicz, a member of your political office, which if we read correctly [[♪ The bell ♪]] Last press release, he's the hero of at least two prosecutors' proceedings. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I apply to reject the law at first reading. There is no permission for the PiS army, the army must be Polish...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u555	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u556	...the military must be Polish.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u557	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u558	And that's the top priority. There will be no permission for the PiS army, only Polish troops will be allowed. Thank you very much. And the motion, Mr. Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u559	Thank you. You have now asked for the floor of Minister Antoni Macierewicz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u560	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! During my presentation of the principles of this law, I pointed out that we are dealing with a particular action, with a particular action not only saturated with evil will, but also based on a lie and strong conviction that the security of the Polish state must be compromised. [[Voice from the room: Mistral.]] And that's the only reason I dare to speak now, so... Of course, it's not that I think I'm going to stop other people motivated by this evil will from repeating lies... [[The voice from the room: Well, who's talking?]] ...but because there are some people who listen to it, and because those words stay, I want it to be clear... [[18 Smolensk, too, Mistrales.]] ...how absurd, lying and motivated by wrong will towards Poland words fall here. [[The voice from the hall: Bad will?]] Well, I'm already abstracting this nonsense about ONR. It is obvious, and it is clearly stated in the Act that, like all other soldiers, so territorial defence soldiers are apolitical. It's absolutely obvious. [[Voice from the Chamber: During the Smolensk appeals, this apoliticality is visible.]] And those who repeat this nonsense about this case know it well, because I've talked about it 55 times. But it's not about arguing honestly. [[In Smolensk 18 different, what does that change, as you say?]] The aim is to stigmatize actions whose purpose is the security of Poland. I want to bring up... not the other lies that were here, but one thing worth telling. There was a text here, I don't remember, the National Centre for Strategic Studies, which I think was the name of the organization... [[Voice from the room: Don't you remember?]] [[Voice from the room: Maybe you'll ask the Vice Minister.]] [[Maybe the Deputy Minister will tell you.]] ...about the territorial defence of the country and the quotes that were quoted there were to compromise, indeed quotations quite surprisingly presenting this concept, these actions or possibly these branches. I fully agree that it was not only surprising, but if someone wanted to implement such a formula, it would be extremely embarrassing for the superiors, for the people who patronized this concept. [[The voice from the room: There it is.]] [[We agree on that.]] And I know that gentlemen... I'm responding to a comment from the Civic Platform that says it agrees with my court. [[Voice from the room: We share your point of view.]] I would therefore like to point out that the management of the Ministry of National Defence consisted mainly of people from the Civic Platform until November 2015. The project and the text in question were first presented in the presence of a representative of the Ministry of National Defence in July 2015. And if, by attacking this project, the Ombudsman of the Civic Platform now points out that it is particularly shameful that he points out that he was consulted with the Ministry of National Defence, it is worth looking back and to the left, looking at the former Minister of Darkness, looking at the former Minister of Semoniak, because it was with them that this project was consulted. [[Voice from the room: But who was the head of the NCSS, Minister?]] And with the Ministry of National Defense led by me never and never had anything to do with him. But with you, perhaps a lot. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u561	Thank you. He's got a voice right now... [[Excuse me, Mr. Marshal, as a correction, if I may, because Mr. Minister...]] Mr Pierce, later. I return to Mr Caesar Tomczyk... [[May I?]] I would like to point out to you that you should be more careful about the religious beliefs of other Members and other people, citizens of the Republic of Poland, because I believe that you are making it difficult and, as a result, prevent the proceedings from being held. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Ms Anna Maria Siarkowska, Kukiz Club15, has the floor. Please. [[Mr. Marshal, may I make a correction?]] You can't. [[Why can't I?]] Because I won't let you. Please take your seat. [[On what grounds?]] Mr President, please take your seat because... [[But on what grounds?]] I'll take it you're making this difficult for me. [[Will I be allowed to speak?]] I would like to point out to you once again that you are making it difficult for me to conduct my deliberations. [[And we'll file a motion to appeal the marshal.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u562	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz club15 on the amendment of the Act on the universal obligation to defend the Republic of Poland. The main objective of the proposed amendment is to create the Territorial Defence Army as another independent type of Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland. What's OT? It is a component of a modern military structure, whose connection to the non-military system decisively affects the effectiveness of national defence. The emergence of universal territorial defence is the most important task in building a sovereign, independent and invincible Republic. This rank of territorial defence is directly due to its decisive role in ensuring an effective defence of the State. In recent years, Poland's military organization has been largely destroyed. This is demonstrated by the miniaturisation of operational troops, the waiver of general military training of citizens and the creation of personal reserves for the development of mobilization, the distortion of hierarchicality and uniformity of the management and command system, and finally the complete elimination of the foundations of universal territorial defence built in 1991-2005. Today, Poland faces serious geopolitical challenges that have an important impact on its security. We are observing Russia's return to the armed reconstruction of the empire. This is accompanied by the helplessness and helplessness of Western European countries. The geopolitical situation indicates that the rapid reconstruction of a universal territorial defence providing effective defence and creating convenient conditions for maneuvering and striving for their own operational forces should be considered as a vital challenge for Polish security. The draft amendment to the General Defence Obligation Act under discussion of the High House provides for the creation of OT troops as a separate and independent type of Armed Forces, together with the appointment of the commander of these troops, a commander equivalent to the operational commander and general commander of types of Armed Forces. On the one hand, This is justified because by the lack of direct submission to operational forces, the independence of the Territorial Defence Forces is ensured for their effectiveness. On the other hand, however, this solution is a logical inconsistency, because OT is introduced as a new kind of Armed Forces, but at the same time it does not align the position of their commander with the position of persons directing the other types of Armed Forces, i.e. according to the current law so-called. Chiefs of Inspectors. This is, of course, a consequence of the disruption of the uniformity and hierarchicality of the Armed Forces' management and command system and of the lack of corrective action that has been announced by the current government for a long time. The project introduces a new title of soldier OT. The term is to function in parallel to the title of soldier given to persons serving in other types of Armed Forces. A new category is also introduced, i.e. territorial military service, which is to function in parallel to the category of military service relating to persons serving in other types of Armed Forces. However, such a solution should be considered rather curiosical, because if we consider that the Armed Forces are and should be a unified structure with a hierarchical chain of command, the creation of other parallel beings proves at least a lack of responsibility. We believe, however, that it would be much better to use existing legal institutions and make the desired changes based on the reserve soldier category. There are also doubts about the introduction of restrictions for OT soldiers on public rights and freedoms regarding their membership of associations. It seems that such a solution is absolutely unnecessary and contradicts the civic character of the service. However, what bothers the most is that the draft amendment lacks the restoration of universal military training. In the face of the challenges and difficult geopolitical situation of Poland, each month of continuing the shameful decision of the predecessors to suspend universal military service weakens our ability to carry out effective mobilization and reduces our personal reserve system. The draft amendment also lacks legal solutions to exploit the potential of pro-defence organisations in the OT system. After all, these organisations have often called for a uniform system of training and certification allowing for the inclusion in the territorial defence of entire divisions of pro-defence organisations. Unfortunately, the designers also lacked the courage to allow the Territorial Defence Forces, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Soldiers holding guns for personal use at home... [[Voice from the room: Time.]] ...as it is in the case of collectors or sports shooters. [[Voice from the room: Time.]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Although the proposed amendment has a number of weaknesses, the creation of territorial defence cannot be for reasons of Poland's security...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u563	Finish it, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u564	...slow down. We will therefore support the draft law at this stage, as Kukiz15, with the hope that it will be improved in committee work. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u565	Thank you, Member. Mr Adam Cyranski, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u566	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, While we are thinking about calling another military formation to life, we should look at this from several sides, make a fair assessment and ask as many questions as we need. Especially noteworthy is the disorganization, which PiS has already accustomed us to. Publishing the day before the meeting, the afternoon, the agenda of the Sejm leads to the fact that most of us, while still working in committees, coming from far away, often do not have enough time to read all the texts of the projects, which are not conducive to their volume. An excellent example of this is today's draft law amending the Act on the universal obligation to defend the Republic of Poland and some other laws. On the subject of the bill, I would like to ask you a few questions about the future of the Territorial Defence Army. Given the experts' voices regarding the too short preparation of the National Reserve Forces soldiers, I ask what will be the combat value of a territorial defence soldier who did not perform the preparatory service, compared to a professional soldier or serving in the National Reserve Forces. Does this mean that these soldiers will be destined to be destroyed by a potential opponent? Where the government wants to get the planned PLN 3,600 million, paying, among others. allowances for fighting readiness and paying people there, since we are already financing the 500+ public debt programme? Do you therefore buy citizenship for money? Why money, Minister, or at the expense of modernising the technical army and investing in modern technologies in the Polish defence industry? It's a matter of consultation. I see they were run with pro-defense groups. My question is as follows. Consultation of pro-defence groups and organisations is one thing, but public consultation is another. Where are they? What does the public think about this? If it's going to be the Territorial Defense Army, what do the people of the East mostly think about it? Will they not feel threatened by the formation of the Territorial Defence Army? What do professional soldiers think, both active and veterans? What do you mean, that the Territorial Defence Army will be an independent type of Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland? What about co-operation with the Armed Forces? In order to better coordinate the activities of the Territorial Defence Army, should they not be under the control of existing structures? The explanatory memorandum of the bill states the distinction of territorial defence soldiers. How can we presume that one group of soldiers is superior to others? And most important for Poles. Minister, what are the mechanisms to protect the use of the Territorial Defence Army against its own citizens? Given the need to increase the country's defence and civil engagement in this area, we should prepare a bill that will be free from the mistakes made in creating the National Reserve Forces. We should put more work into preparing the financial analysis of this project. So now that we're making a bill, let's not escalate mistakes like this. We're underqualified NSR soldiers. If, according to experts, 4 months is too short for training, how will the 2-week training be improved? Let's not make the Army a territorial temporary agency. [[Cannon meat.]] Will duplication of tasks of the NSR while expanding the competence of the Territorial Defence Forces result in the elimination of this first formation? If so, let us have the courage to say it here and now. The Modern Club disagrees with the adoption of this bill, fearing that the proposed project is aimed at setting up kamikaze troops in the event of a conflict or armed militia against their own citizens during peacetime. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u567	Please. The remaining time is available to Mr Mirosław Suchoń, also to the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u568	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I want to make it clear that the Modern thinks that the Polish Army should be complementary to the territorial defence formation, but it should act within and as a complement to the army and according to its procedures. Volunteers should be properly trained, equipped and, what is important, undergo personality tests that eliminate people who are a potential source of danger - it is ideal. Unfortunately, this idea of territorial defence was dangerously distorted by the PiS. Instead of proposing a complementary military formation, we have a project of a private army directly subordinate to Minister Macierewicz, an army excluded from the command system. Instead of complementing the army, we have the Minister's words about sending these young people, the young patriots in the first throw to the slaughter at the hands of Specnaz. The statement itself is absurd and absolutely unacceptable in public space, and the logic contained in this statement suggests that the Minister absolutely does not know what the idea of territorial defence is about. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voice from the room: Time.]] This is absolutely frivolous and irresponsible. [[Time's up.]] Therefore, for the sake of principle, to show that we do not agree with this kind of lack of responsibility in the area of national defence, we apply for the rejection of this project at first reading. Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: What is this clock? Cuckoo, not clock.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u569	Thank you. Member Paweł Bejda, a club of the Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u570	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Gentlemen of Ministers! 35,000. people, probably young, strong and dedicated, selected according to specific criteria - let them not be criteria for choosing from the party key - should be called territorial defence and be in the hands of one man, here the current Minister of National Defence Antoni Macierewicz. The only question is why. In the explanatory memorandum to the draft law, the creators say that the Territorial Defence Forces are to have the ability to carry out anti-crisis activities. So I'm asking. : Should the Territorial Defence Forces act against the government? Because it is the government of the PiS that triggers the crises facing Poland: the agricultural crisis by the ASF, low prices and the signing of the CETA agreement, the constitutional crisis, the crisis in civil service, etc. [[Applause]] As far as anti-diversity activities are concerned, I ask whether the Territorial Defence Forces are to take care of all persons who have led to the fact that the Polish Army has been deprived of modern helicopters, thus reducing the defence capabilities of Poland. This includes anti-terrorist and anti-disinformation activities. I ask: Are the Territorial Defence Forces supposed to take care of and fight TVP? Because as the president of Kurski TVP, or actually TVPiS, it is perfectly fulfilled in the role of disinformer No.1 in Poland. [[Get to the point.]] The justification raises our concerns and raises questions: What is the police, Central Bureau of Investigation, Internal Security Agency, Military Counterintelligence and Military Commandarmery, special anti-terrorist units? Why double the tasks that are assigned to the ww. Formations? The territorial defence forces are to be directly subject to the Minister of National Defence. That's new, because the other types of Armed Forces are under the command of the General. What does that mean? The Minister of National Defence may issue orders to the Commander of the Territorial Defence Forces without the mediation of any other military body. He may therefore require these soldiers to carry out such tasks as will come to his mind at any time. Is this supposed to be the private army of the Minister of National Defence? The territorial defence forces are also to deal with the protection of the population against the consequences of natural disasters, their consequences, the protection of property, search and rescue or protection of human health and life. Isn't that the ability of volunteer firefighters? Isn't this an attempt to discredit and slowly extinguish voluntary firefighters? [[Voice from the room: No.]] A territorial defence soldier is to receive a total of PLN 500 a month for fighting readiness and attendance at the exercises. Isn't this an attempt to buy $35,000? electoral votes by the current rulers? If you don't, prove it and give the same power to the volunteer firefighters. After all, they put their lives and health at risk to save lives, health, and property of others. [[Voice from the room: PSL.]] Finally, the project states that the objective of territorial defence is also to increase the deterrent potential. I'm just asking who's gonna scare it off. Do Polish citizens who wanted to demonstrate their dissatisfaction with the current power? Is this ZOMO encore? Is that what this is about? [[Applause]] [[Ooh, he's out of line.]] Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I declare that we will make two amendments to the above mentioned. a draft law. The first amendment will concern the fact that there must be a clear record that the Territorial Defence Forces cannot be used against Poles and Poles. [[Applause]] The second amendment will deal with a clear record in the draft law that the Territorial Defence Forces are under the command of the General Armed Forces. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u571	There you go. Mr Stefan Niesiołowski, near the European Democrats, has the floor. [[Ten minutes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u572	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I can only address a few comments, because of course this time is very short and here the advantage of the Minister is significant. But this is probably the only area in which the Minister has an advantage over us, i.e. he can speak freely and he can say anything and any foolishness. [[Get to the point.]] Sir, if you can't say anything else, leave. [[Applause]] The Minister was kind to repeat all these lies, of course there is no time to straighten it out, but I will correct one. You're going back to that Smolensk bullshit again. All this argument that Poland, what a crazy megalomania, stopped Russia in Georgia - Georgia lost Ossetia, Poland stopped Russia in Ukraine - Ukraine lost Crimea. I'd rather Poland didn't stop anyone. For these great disasters which Russia suffered, I understand that they were revengeful, you used a new term: the destruction of the Polish elite. Then this is another one, I understand, whether the attempt complements this Smolensk lie, which you have been spreading with limited success for six years. When it comes to this project, something comes out of this huge mistrust. I'm not editing the media, Mr. Macierewicz. The claim that it's an army, because it's directly subject to you... It's like an event, that's what everyone's afraid of, making an army like this ends badly. I do not want to give examples from non-democratic countries, but it has generally ended badly, as some such politician did not yet have his own army under control. This is the reason why many people read that it could really be the strength to suppress internal protests, which is used to fight for your compromised government. Here, for example. We read that there would be tens of thousands of reserve forces, which were already there, so all of your speech is that this is something new, a new formation, it's all a lie, but that you're lying, that's probably everyone... There'd be a sensation if you weren't lying. A strong patriotic formation. Who will measure this patriotism? What's that gonna look like? The candidate stands, I understand, the first question is: Who is the greatest patriot of the 21st century? Answer: Macierevich. You're accepted, of course. If not, you're out. Second question: Was there a disaster or an assassination in Smolensk? No swing. Congratulations, sir. We welcome you to the reserve forces. [[And an officer right away.]] And if it's a disaster, you're a traitor. The list of traitors you've been polite to mention here is indeed impressive. I have to say that I ignore the issue of costs, they were mentioned here, it's all wrongly prepared, it's all lies, it's all uncertain. A few more of these, at the end of the day, flowers. You might say I'd be a little scared, Minister, symbolizing you want to make a wolf, it's written in this bill that it's a wolf, a symbol of the enchanted soldiers. In general, PiS has the right to represent the cursed soldiers illegally. I wrote about it in the '60s, in the '70s, and that's what went to prison, and then I wrote articles. President Komorowski restored honor and honor, due respect to the soldiers who were cursed. The PiS makes it out of this, falsifying history, such phenomena as if only the PiS were a continuation, as if the soldiers, in my opinion, were best to say: steadfast, they were, you can say, precursors of the PiS. Kind of like the Warsaw Uprising, which in the history of the PiS began beautifully, but it doesn't really know when it ended. The end didn't actually have, somehow this uprising had spread. Second symbol, very uncomfortable, this is the wolf, Mr Macierewicz. Have you even thought about it? One of the politicians of the neighboring country, I'm afraid to name this politician, use the name Wolf. On Polish soil there is Wolfsschanze - Wolfschanze Jama and there is also Werwolf, a werewolf, so that this wolf, you know, does not suit your patriotic elevation. In short, I consider this project to be a project, once again, propaganda, sometimes it can be dangerous, it is poorly prepared, expensive, targeted, created mainly so that you can make such phillips against the previous government, because it is your specialty, contrary to the truth. In this regard, the European Democrats strongly and unambiguously speak out against this bubble at first reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u573	Mr Ireneusz Gaina, near Free and Solidarnia, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u574	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the draft law amending the Act on the universal obligation to defend the Republic of Poland and certain other laws, print No. 966. Members of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle share the idea that the construction of the Territorial Defence Army is in the current situation of the Republic of Poland in international relations the only reasonably fast, cheap and effective way to restore our military security. We are convinced that the territorial defence forces established will have a high operational capacity to carry out anti-crisis activities. [[Game in the O.R.]] Please. [[You're reading the reason.]] To get... [[Voice from the hall: With your words.]] Thank you. Established for the life of the Territorial Defence Army...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u575	Excuse me, sir. Gentlemen, do not disturb the Member's speech because I will have to use disciplinary measures... [[We know. We already know that.]] ...in front of gentlemen who, of course, know each other very well in defense. [[It's been such an hour, Marshal.]] [[It's a ghost hour, Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u576	...will gain a high operational capacity to conduct anti-crisis and anti-terrorist actions in defence of civil security and the cultural heritage of the Polish people, but above all will become the main element of the country's defence system, capable of carrying out advanced military activities on its own. In this context, they enjoy the proposed legal solutions that treat the Territorial Defence Forces as one of the five equal elements of the Armed Forces... [[Three.]] ...and establish the position of Commander of the Territorial Defence Forces as directly subordinate to the Minister of National Defence. On the other hand, it is concerned that sufficient resources have not been shifted from other MON departments to this new type of Armed Forces, which may cause considerable difficulties in building this formation. The bill tries shyly to integrate the Territorial Defence Forces into the public administration system and crisis management system. These actions are far from sufficient. Territorial Defence should be fully integrated into public administration systems, crisis management, education, ICT, energy, banking, public security and cooperate with all non-governmental organisations. This last aspect of local cooperation is extremely important, as in the modern world we are dealing with new phenomena, such as. hybrid wars, where traditional military formations are completely helpless, and self-defense formations work perfectly. Col. Dr. Jürg Stüssi-Lauterburg, director of the Swiss military library, who wrote that the January Uprising had shaped the Swiss defensive doctrine still functioning today. The Polish state should also benefit from the Polish military thought by building a network capable of territorial self-defense, based on local communities capable of taking on the most serious defence tasks. In addition, it should be taken into account that in the war strategies of advanced countries there is a radical transformation in military techniques, e.g. The American Big Five armor program, which included Abrams Tank, Bradley Fighting Vehicle, Patriot Air Defence Missile System, Apache Helicopter, Black Hawk Helicopter, collapsed in the late 1980s. In 1990 a new Army Transformation Program was launched in the United States, where Unmanned Aerial Vehicles were given priority, that is, drones. It seems that territorial defence is well suited to developing dynamically dispersed military systems based on remotely controlled slots and advanced information technology. The defensive doctrine should be developed in this direction in order to obtain the maximum effect of repelling the potential aggressor in a short period of time and with minimal effort. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, The Free and Solidarni Circle considers this bill to be a step in a very good direction. The adoption of this law and the introduction of the Territorial Defence Army will significantly strengthen Poland's defence and will also cause such prevention in the field of repulsion. We believe that this project needs to be refined. [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the course of further work of the committee, and we will vote in favour of the bill submitted, in favour of referring it to further work in the Committee on National Defence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u577	Thank you, sir. At the moment, Minister Antoni Macierewicz, Minister of National Defence, is asking for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u578	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I promise not to abuse this power to answer the various issues immediately. [[Unfortunately, we cannot speak.]] Without commenting on the entire statement of one of the previous Members, in its entirety absurd, I want to make one thing clear, because she has fallen into that mind, in general, very dynamic, so that I can formulate it and may create some social harm. Well, neither in this law nor in any other regulation related to the territorial defence of the country has there ever been an idea, nor a plan, nor a purpose, nor a desire for the dignity of the territorial defence of the country to be a wolf or anything related to that animal. Why did it get caught up in this Member's head, I do not know that, and perhaps more thought about Werwolf than the heroes of the Republic of Poland, e.g. Col. The Teutonic Wolf, whom I think he was trying to post here. I do not know what his intention was, but one thing is certain: neither in the bill, nor in the plans prepared, nor until I am responsible for the Polish army the wolf will be a symbol of any Polish armed formation for various reasons. I don't know if it's worth it here, but it won't be. Second line. As I said, by presenting the principles of this law, I have no great hope that the lies that have been repeated for a long time through my explanations and through the clear provisions of this law no longer be raised by people who want to reconcile in the security of the state. I must say again, raising awareness maybe not so much to these Members, because they know this, but to the citizens of the Republic of Poland, that not only the commander of the Territorial Defence Army as commander of a type of Armed Forces will be directly subordinate to the Minister of National Defence. The General Commander of the Armed Forces shall be directly subordinate to the Minister for National Defence and the Operational Commander shall also be directly subordinate to the Minister for National Defence. From this point of view, the situation is worse than that of your fellow Members here. It is simply in the Republic of Poland that the law states that all soldiers are subordinate to the Minister of National Defence, and you will not change this country, nor will you change the constitutional principle that the commander of territorial defence as commander of a type of Armed Forces is appointed by the President of the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u579	There you go. Let's get to the questions. 13 Members have come forward. Is anyone else checking in? I'm gonna need you to sign in. [[Voice from the room: Telephone please.]] [[Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind.]] I'll close the list in a minute. Question time - 1 minute. Marcin Kierwiński, the Civic Platform, has the first vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u580	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I will begin, Mr. Marshal, from the appeal to you, in fact, because you have been very moved by the words of my colleague Mr. Cezary Tomczyk, but it is strange that you were unable to react when Minister Macierewicz insulted Members once again from this speaker, saying, for example, that they are people who claim to be Members. Forgive me, sir, but you should respond to such words, because that puts this House at risk. [[Applause]] But I have a specific question for Minister Macierewicz: Is it true, as one radio station states, that the issue of territorial defence and how this law was prepared was the reason for the resignation of the Chief of Staff - the Chief of General Staff, whose term of office was not so long ago, in May? So, is this unprepared... this legal bullshit the reason for this resignation, or did the general just think that working with you is too dangerous, he's just tired of having such extreme experiences as meeting with you and talking about Polish security? You've said a lot. [[♪ The bell ♪]] you have accused Members of thinking differently than you have...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u581	Thank you, sir. Mr Bożena Kamińska, Civic Platform, has the floor. Please leave the podium. [[It's fast.]] Please leave the podium. I said, sir. [[Applause]] [[But don't yell at the MPs.]] [[Voice from the room: A little respect.]] Mr President, please leave the speaker, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Because I think you're interfering with my deliberations. [[Mr. Marshal, you are one of my fellow Members.]] There you go. [[This isn't kindergarten.]] [[Respect works from both sides.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u582	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The government bill amending the Act on the universal obligation to defend the Republic of Poland and some other laws is, of course, a new program - the new programme of the Government of Law and Justice and Antoni Macierewicz, the program "500 + rifles" because everyone is already preparing for another 500+, which they will get for being ready for the Territorial Defence Army. The territorial defence forces are to be governed only by the Minister of National Defence, so they will not be an additional type of Armed Forces, but by a parallel army, which is to effectively conduct counter-terrorism and anti-crisis activities, and this is to happen within 14 days of the introduction of specific trainings. This is a very expensive program. I ask: What are the sources of funding for this programme? Will the money to finance the territorial defence of the country come from a cut budget, from spending on modernisation [[♪ The bell ♪]] Armed Forces and Support for Professional Soldiers? Are we gonna wait another 50 years...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u583	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u584	...for strengthening the Polish army...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u585	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u586	...modernization and modern equipment? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u587	Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, the Law and Justice Club, has another vote. [[Voice from the room: Can you...]] I'll let you know I'm closing the list. Right now, Mr. Minister... Mr President, if you would be kind... [[You have to come down.]] [[Minister of National Defence Antoni Macierewicz: I am very sorry, sir, I am very sorry, really.]] Minister of National Defence Antoni Macierewicz. There you go. [[Minister of National Defence Antoni Macierewicz: Thank you very much, Marshal.]] And I'm telling you I'm closing the list.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u588	Thank you very much, Marshal. I wouldn't really bother you, and I wouldn't bother you if this extraordinary situation didn't happen all the time. The provisions of the Act are absolutely obvious, the provisions of the Constitution are obvious, the provisions of the Act on the Minister of National Defence are obvious. I repeat ten times the obvious fact that all commanders of types of Armed Forces are directly subject to the Minister of National Defence and from this point of view the commander of the territorial defence of the country will be at the same level, as will the Minister of National Defence as the General Commander or as the operational commander, and these nonsenses saying that this is a special situation... [[It's special.]] ...that it will be especially subject and that it is a special, separate army, etc... [[Voice from the room: But you have to understand it.]] [[For some, not for others.]] ...are repeated over and over again. [[But who invented it?]] As if I have no power, of course, to stop you from lying, but do you not see the absurdity of this situation where you really stand up to Mr. Urban? Thank you very much. [[Mr. Marshal, aren't you going to react now?]] [[Voice from the room: We are happy.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u589	Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, the Law and Justice Club, has the floor. [[Mr. Marshal, if there's a minimum of right, respect in both directions should work, yes or no?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u590	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Almost every day, military uniforms put around 50,000 in school classes. students. These students come from different backgrounds, are interested in militaryism, militariism, others want to experience a good life lesson and experience adventures, but all of them are connected by attachment to their homeland and faithfulness to it. I would like to ask whether the situation of classes that function as military or simply uniform will be regulated in the context of the future composition of such facilities for territorial protection. Has the possibility of exploiting such enormous potential been considered? I think the budget should also include money for these uniform classes for shooting classes, uniforms, trips to fitness camps, military camps. For many years, uniformed teachers have called on national defence ministers and education to regulate their status, as is the case with music or sports classes. They think they should be created not only uniformed classes, [[♪ The bell ♪]] But also state military schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u591	Thank you, sir. Mr Leszek Ruszczyk, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u592	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Territorial Defense Army will be the first to meet with Specnaz - that's what you said. I take the words of the Minister of Defense of my homeland very seriously. If there is such a threat from the Russian side, Poles should hear about it. Doesn't your words sound like an invitation to conflict? Because you don't want to put up an elite army, you want a reserve, and conflict isn't a social game, and there won't be a chance of rematching your opponent. [[The Minister likes to provoke.]] If you're going to stage a team after 14 days of training against special-purpose troops, we have a problem. So the question is: How long will you insult our elite special forces like the GROM or Formoza and scare away potential volunteers of the Territorial Defence Army by making such surrealistic scenarios? When and how will you take action to prevent anyone in the world from thinking that we can be assaulted by our country? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u593	Please. Mr Joanna Borowiak, Club of Law and Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u594	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The establishment of the Territorial Defence Army is regarded as a very good idea. [[By who?]] Apart from the undisputed strengthening of the country's defence, the establishment of the Territorial Defence Army is also an excellent opportunity to support cities that lost their status as a voivodship and which were taken away years ago by military units. Such cities include Włocławek in the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship. I would like to ask the Minister: Is there no change in the position regarding the dislocation of the battalion and the company of territorial defence in Włocławek, and will these individuals carry out their tasks in connection with local government authorities, structures and pro-defence organisations, with the military command of additions? The Territorial Defence Army is an increase in defence, it is a reconstruction of military traditions, but also an opportunity to raise the status of many cities. And the question to the total opposition: Whose interests do you represent by submitting [[♪ The bell ♪]] The conclusion... [[Voice from the room: Nation.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u595	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u596	...about rejecting a law at first reading raising the defence of the country? [[Applause]] [[The Polish people.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u597	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u598	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, you've talked a lot about patriotism here, so I wanted to ask you if sending such patriotism is also an expression of such patriotism. to the Polish Armed Group of incompetent PiS officers who occupy positions there. Let me remind you that this group should provide modern equipment for our army. Is it a patriotic attitude that the company that is supposed to provide this modern equipment is being sent to incompetent PiS officers? Is that a patriotic attitude? I don't think so. Second question. What's it like with these soldiers after 14 days of training? However, it seems rather risky that these people, after 14 days of training, who have no prior connection with the army, will be able to perform in a responsible manner the roles that have been assigned to them. And the third thing I wanted to ask you. During the speech, the Minister was kind to say that in 2016 over PLN 300 million will go to territorial defence. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I wanted to ask you to explain...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u599	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u600	...what specific expenses it will be. I understand that the Minister can...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u601	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u602	...I'm asking for a written reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u603	Mr Paweł Suski, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u604	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, under the cover of the night, it's first in the night, under cover or such a mist of great matter as territorial defence, Minister, you smuggle an increase in the age of the soldiers in service - 63 years. Please tell me what the reasons for this change are. I'm sure the soldiers will be very happy about that. It's a bill, on the other hand. The bill is dangerous because it creates conditions for a dangerous minister. Yes, Minister, we're afraid of you, we're afraid of your lies, we're afraid of your incredibleness. Will you speak to the French Minister through the table, waving nicely? Did the Minister of Defense of France just wave back your friendships in the media after what you did about it, I don't even want to say, Mistrali, Caracali anymore? I'll even get it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Rhymes... One question I'd like to ask, speaking of subordinates...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u605	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u606	...important. What will be the independence of the territorial defence commander in relation to...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u607	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u608	...to commanders of types of Armed Forces? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u609	Mr Czesław Mroczyk, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u610	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We already have a territorial defence formation in the Armed Forces structures. This is not the new formation that Minister Macierewicz just invented. What Minister Macierewicz is doing when he implements this concept is caricature. That's the formation right there. Creating a 50-thousand-dollar formation that doesn't really have tasks for peace time outside training is the most expensive way to train soldiers of this formation. Distributed formation, because the company in each district, 17 brigades, not best trained, with light weapons - from a military point of view, its value will be small. You're wasting Poland's efforts. If the Minister is talking about those who harm the Armed Forces, this project is the largest [[♪ The bell ♪]] damage over a period of twenty-several years. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u611	Thank you, sir. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u612	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We should be serious about national defence, and that is why we are asking the question of how territorial defence units are to be equipped. The modern battlefield will be very different from that of World War II and subsequent conflicts. Today he was deciding will be the one who will have the upper hand in the air, who will be able to fight air units, rocket bombings with full precision. If you want to secure... [[Well, the aeroclubs will.]] ...parties of territorial defence against this kind of threat, and thus how you want to safeguard the security of Poland by wasting money on implementation [[♪ The bell ♪]] your crazy project? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u613	Thank you, sir. Mr Buczak, Mr Law and Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u614	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister and the Ministry of National Defence for preparing the appropriate legislative changes, but also for the work already done on the establishment of the Territorial Defence Army. It is very important that these works were first undertaken in Eastern Poland, including in my Podkarpacie, where for the last 8 years, also for many years, defence-related cases have been largely neglected. The Act or amendment of the Act assumes that priority will be given in calling for service in the territorial defence of the country. members of pro-defence organisations. Moreover, the activities of these organizations are very valuable, selfless and patriotic. Does the Ministry of National Defence provide such systematic support for the organisation [[♪ The bell ♪]] Pro-defendants so that they can continue this activity?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u615	Thank you, sir. Mr Skurkiewicz, Mr Law and Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u616	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Civic Platform wonders how the security of our country can be ensured by an army of 150,000. soldiers along with soldiers of territorial defense. You created this system. This country has reduced the number of professional soldiers to 100,000. [[We've increased by $12,000.]] We have $97,000. professional soldiers. A significant part of them are soldiers performing official functions. We've only got less than $40,000. Private soldiers who were not given the opportunity to extend your service to your country, only a 12-year contract and not a day longer. You've led this country to a lame... [[It's command now.]] ...the system and this country should hit your chest very hard. Minister, I would like to thank you for the actions you are taking to create territorial defence. I hope this course is maintained. And by the way, my question is related to the infrastructure that the Civic Platform has so neglected over the last years of its governments, military infrastructure, which without [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm sure she's...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u617	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u618	...necessary for our country. What's going to happen to this infrastructure?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u619	Mr Michał Dworczyk, Club Law and Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u620	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! First of all, speaking of the ridicule that fell here about territorial defence, I wanted to ask you this question. Is it true that territorial defence units exist in many countries, including: The United States, the United Kingdom, Sweden, Norway, Estonia, and even Russia, and that this has also been discussed in Poland, but so far there are no such troops in the Polish Army? Secondly, in the context of allegations of the lack of professionalism of those forming territorial defences who fell and today at the Platform conference, and here in the Chamber. Is it true that the Commander of the Territorial Defence Army is Colonel Kukuła, an experienced Special Forces officer, former Commander of the Commandos Military Unit in Lublin? One point, correction. The person who restored the state's commitment to commemorating the anti-communist underground soldiers was President Lech Kaczyński, who [[♪ The bell ♪]] prepared a draft act on the National Day of Remembrance of the Cursed Soldiers. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u621	Thank you, sir. [[Who set it up?]] [[Please?]] [[Lech Kaczyński did everything.]] Mr Michał Jach, the Law and Justice have the floor. [[Who wrote the bill, please tell me. A little honesty.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u622	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Since 1 January 2010, the military conscription has been suspended... [[Voice from the room: A little serious.]] ...so-called. Assignment to the army, that is, basic military service. It was a great success of the government of Donald Tusk. [[Of course I do.]] Minister! Is it true that less than 20,000 were trained in Poland between 1 January 2010 and the end of 2014. Young people? Is it true that at that time no training was carried out with any mobilization exercise except one in 2015, when 500 recruited forces of almost the second so many professional soldiers involved were mobilized? If that's true, what would mobilization and complement the operational forces look like if [[♪ The bell ♪]] Was there a need for war? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u623	Thank you, sir. The floor is expressed by Anna Maria Siarkowska, a Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u624	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question. The explanatory memorandum of the bill refers to a category such as the universality of territorial defence. My question is: How does the Ministry of National Defence intend to ensure this universality without restoring, without introducing universal military training? Is the introduction of universal military training planned? That's the first question. Second question. Is the creation of new training centres envisaged for this new type of Armed Forces? Let us remind you that existing training centres have been created for the needs of a miniaturized operating army, and therefore their number is currently insufficient. If we want to increase the national security potential of our country, if we intend to train citizens, we must have training centres for this purpose. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u625	Please. Mr Sylwester Khrushch, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u626	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question. The Act provides for the limitation of membership rights in associations of future territorial defence soldiers. Isn't that a restriction on civil rights and freedoms? Minister, future soldiers will be from paramilitary, pro-defense organizations, from various patriotic associations of all political shades. Is this the right way, or are we not restricting the civil liberties of these soldiers? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u627	Please. Ladies and gentlemen, all the Members who have come forward have spoken. At the moment, please take the floor of the Minister of National Defence, Antoni Macierewicz. [[For the fifth time.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u628	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There have been a lot of speeches, including many important issues raised both in the form of questions and in the form of doubts or polemics. I will allow myself to respond in writing to all these issues that I have noted, as well as my colleagues, in writing. As for the whole group of Members, especially from the Civic, Modern Platform, and unfortunately, I have to say with regret, too - it surprised me - from the PSL, they were routinely repeated the same issues that I had already answered, so I see no reason to react again to them. The important points have been raised by Mr Jach. I'm sorry to say that those questions you asked contained the truth. It is true that no more than 20,000 have been trained. young people, and indeed it is so, that the exercises took up little more than 500 soldiers. It is indeed a sign of the fall of the Polish army, and especially the waste of Polish defence potential, which characterized the previous years. One thing worth explaining is the appearance of truth, but the truth is not. Indeed, in the current military structure there is such a category as territorial defence, indeed there is. Of course, it concerns professional soldiers, not volunteers, and from this point of view it has a completely different structure, character, nature and function than the Territorial Defence Army, which we are talking about here and about, but above all, it has different functions assigned in the current military structure. Everyone who is involved in this is well aware that apart from the fact that this formation exists exclusively on paper in a tainted form, it does not exist in structural reality, its functions are limited to auxiliary functions, not combat functions. And people who have anything to do with the military should know about it. [[Specnaz, though.]] You also have to say an extra thing. The allegations here were that I would expose unformed, uneducated, untrained people to contact Specnaz. Either someone doesn't understand, or someone doesn't want to know what's going on around Poland, or they're just lying rudely. The current form of aggression adopted by the Russian Federation begins with the Specnaz attack in the form of the so-called. green people, but everyone who's doing this knows that it's about Specnaz, which is targeted at not operating units, but it's directed at places where operational units don't exist. That's the reality. And we'll either be able to stand up to them trained and well-armed with a modern weapon that he didn't want to know existed and that it would be made available to the Territorial Defense Forces... [[Shooter.]] ...Mr Grabarczyk - or we will stand up to someone who will be able to take root in the local community... [[Aeroclubs.]] ...and by training, and by arming, the people who... the troops who will be able to face them, or we will be simply helpless against these hybrid actions and will be subjected to the same attack on which the Ukrainians were committed and on which the Georgians were committed. One or the other. And you have to realize that to the end. [[We're realizing it.]] As regards the repetition of the nonsense about the special type of troops, their distinctness, the removal from the organizational structure of the Polish army, I repeat once again: the Territorial Defence Army will be a normal part of the structure of the army of the Republic of Poland, a subordinate minister of defence on the same terms, on which all other soldiers of the Republic of Poland and all commanders of the types of Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland are subject. [[Please read the project.]] This is enshrined in the Act, guaranteed by the Constitution and is not subject to any change. Very important things have been raised by Mrs Siarkowska, as well as by the members of the parliamentary circle of freedom and solidarity, if I say this very emotionally dear name to me, and I am glad that this is the name that this circle has adopted. These are issues related to the concept, which assumes that the Territorial Defence Army should be a kind of foundation of the Polish defence force in general. I understand this concept, but I do not hide that - and I want to say it very clearly - I do not share it. It is indisputable that the universal ability to defend our homeland is a foundation without which we cannot manage, but that does not mean that such troops can replace the operational forces. That's not true. There must be synchronisation between these different types of Armed Forces and they should and must be subject to the same structure. I understand we're no different here. We may differ at most in this - and rightly Mrs Siarkowska touched one of the biggest problems with which we encounter, rightly pointed out by President Jach - that the structure of the Polish Armed Forces was changed in general. Indeed, the issue of universal preparation for defence, universal training, especially for young people, is a matter that needs to be resolved. I am committed, Madam President, to the Members who have taken up this problem, that it will soon be resolved by the Ministry of National Defence. I assure you, we will. But you can't do everything at once, even with your support. You see, at all, what an attempt to strengthen the defence of the Republic of Poland fierce resistance here, in this room, is being encountered. [[Fighting windmills.]] See how many people of evil will who want the Republic to remain helpless. [[How many helicopters have we bought so far?]] It's worth remembering and it's worth measuring your intentions... [[A voice from the hall: Or two dollars on the mistral.]] ...it is worth maintaining the proportion between possible changes and the needs in which we turn. [[For 2 billion you can buy 4 billion mistrals.]] Finally, Mrs Siarkowska has taken up a problem, which perhaps two other Members have also taken up, concerning the possibility of implementing in full the structures of different paramilitary or pro-defendant formations for the territorial defence of the country. Indeed, this proposal does not provide for such solutions, because we fear that if they were widely used, they could weaken the uniformity of the Territorial Defence Army rather than strengthen it. But I assure you that we do not only verbally appreciate the work they have done, as I have already told you many times. But a number of legal solutions that I pointed out are aimed at doing so as far as possible. But under no circumstances can it be a universal principle. I would like to protect the Polish army from this because of the potential conflict that could arise within the army. And the last point that Mr Khrushch raised. Well, there is no rule to force soldiers, including territorial soldiers, to suspend their membership of associations. No, not at all. In the associations, I repeat. They are merely obliged to report their membership of such associations. [[Well, thank you for that information.]] Of course, this does not apply to political parties and organisations. Membership in political parties and organisations must be suspended. This applies equally to the Army of Territorial Defence of the country as well as to all other formations present in the Polish Army. [[Well, thank you for that information. Thank you.]] It's not a novelty. It was in the Polish Army and it still is. This is not questioned by anyone, because - indeed you are right - otherwise it would expose the Polish Army and the regulations which it is subject to, to the charge of unconstitutionality, and no one will decide to do so. Thank you again very much for the discussion. I particularly thank those of you who have acknowledged, rightly, that this is an important, good time to start a fundamental discussion about the state of the Polish army so far, the future of the Polish army and how to repair it. I regret that there are also some Members who have decided once again to demonstrate their hostility... [[Who have a different opinion.]] ...in front of the Polish army and the security of the Republic. But you just have to accept that they're... [[But the opposite is not hostility.]] ...and such formations and such Members in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[You're welcome.]] [[We'll settle it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u629	There you go. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that a double or double motion to reject the bill at first reading has been made in the discussion. We will vote on it in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies, the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Public Finances on the adoption of the Senate on the amendment of certain laws specifying the conditions for carrying out innovative activities (prints No. 958 and 962). I would like to ask Mr Marcin Horala to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u630	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the report of the joint committees on the Senate's resolution on the Act amending certain laws laying down the conditions for carrying out innovative activities. Two words of reminder. This law regulates the principles of conducting innovative activities, introduces changes aimed at increasing innovation in the Polish economy, increasing R &amp; D expenditures, translating the results of these research into economic applications. At its meeting on 3 November, the joint committees - the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies, the Committee on Education for Science and Youth and the Committee on Public Finance - considered the Senate resolution and three amendments to the Act. The first of the Senate amendments is in fact a technical amendment. It refers to the renumbering of points in the amended Corporate Income Tax Act. The second amendment, in turn, complements the catalogue of agreements which may include state legal entities without any request for approval of the Minister responsible for Foreign Affairs. the treasure of the state. In this catalogue so far there have been lease contracts, leases and other contracts for which state-owned legal entities could own their assets, for example to rent halls, rent projectors, rent other equipment for a short period of time without addressing the Treasury Minister, which allowed such legal persons, such as universities, to obtain more flexible additional sources of income. The amendment extends the catalogue of objectives for which this wealth can be possessed to include scientific objectives. That's what's missing. So far there have been various objectives: conference, training, now there will also be scientific goals. Finally, Amendment 3. It deals with transitional provisions relating to the procedure for the use of researchers on the results of their research. In its current wording, the Act regulated a transitional procedure for proceedings initiated under the Law on Higher Education. The Senate amendment introduces a similar procedure for proceedings initiated under the Act on the State Academy of Sciences. The joint committees recommend the High House to accept all three Senate amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u631	Please. At this point we will listen to three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Witold Czarnecki, the Law and Justice Club, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u632	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present to the High House the position of my club in relation to the Senate resolution on the amendment of certain laws setting out the conditions for carrying out the innovative activity, Parliamentary Printing No. 958. We are at the final stage of the work on the government law, whose project entered the Sejm in August this year. I would like to remind the High House that the need for changes aimed at supporting innovative activities, research and development, as formulated by the government in the explanatory memorandum of the law, was shared by all parliamentary clubs. It could be said that awareness of the backlog of innovation is widespread. Today, at the joint meeting of the three committees, we discussed the amendments that were made in the so-called. the small innovative law introduced the Senate by a resolution adopted on 21 October 2016. Amendment 1 is legislative in nature. Amendment 2 complements - said my previous speaker - a catalogue of contracts concluded by state legal entities without requiring the approval of the Minister responsible for Treasury matters. In particular, the amendment makes it possible to conclude short-term leases, leases, etc. for the payment of fixed assets, including scientific equipment. Amendment 3 complements the provision on the so-called procedure. the patronage of scientists and introducing laws similar to those involving universities - now this also applies to the Polish Academy of Sciences. In short, the amendment extends the scope of the proposed regulation, which is of a transitional nature. The High Sejm, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the amendments made by the Senate in Parliamentary Printing No 958 to the ladies and gentlemen provided. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u633	Please. Mr Nykiel made a statement in writing. Mr Rafał Wójcikowski has the floor... Mr Paweł Pudłowski from the Modern Club. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u634	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! It's half an hour in the morning. It is no wonder that the Members who were to speak before me did not see this moment. Before I proceed with the analysis of the amendments tabled, I would like to draw your attention to the symbolism of this event. We talked about everything else today, we have one of the last places for entrepreneurs. This is symbolic, because when the modern amendment to the very important and directionally supported law by us, the Minister of Finance says that this amendment will cost too much, because the maximum amount of spending, if everything were to be realized, will be PLN 500 million, and on the other hand the mining minister spends an additional PLN 4 billion. It shows who's really important to the Ministry of Finance. We do not look at the opportunities, what we can achieve by making entrepreneurs lighter, and pacifying a potentially difficult public partner, by increasing, by allocating billions of zlotys for restructuring. Indeed, entrepreneurs work very hard and rarely go out on the streets. They rarely use sirens to improve the knowledge of the state in this area, which is important to them, rarely demonstrate. They're just working. They are the salt of the land; they are now earning a nation's wealth. So I'm asking you to pay more attention to them. Modern, as far as these three amendments that come back from the Senate are concerned, they're in favour. The rapporteur - Mr Horała - and Mr Czarnecki presented them, so that I will not go into them in detail now. We care about this law, as we said earlier, but in our opinion it is not ambitious enough. You should go further. That is why we are waiting for proposals for a law called a large law by you. I hope that it will appear relatively quickly and that the incentives for innovation for entrepreneurs in Poland will be appropriate and large. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u635	There you go. Mr Ireneusz Nagroda, the Free and Solidarni Club, has the floor. I would like to inform you that Krzysztof Paszyk from the Polish People's Party has made a written statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u636	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's still a parliamentary circle, but thank you, that's a good direction. On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the Government's draft law amending certain laws defining the conditions for conducting innovative activities, prints No. 789, 868 and 958. Ladies and gentlemen, in the Polish Parliament there was full agreement on the need to launch instruments that will contribute to the innovation of the Polish economy and thus increase national income and increase the level of prosperity in Poland. The bill is a processed act, among other things. It's an expression. The Senate has examined the law amending certain laws laying down the conditions for the conduct of innovative activities by adopting three amendments which are complementary to those which the Members of the Free and Solidarnia Circle fully accept. It is worth reminding, by the way, that in Poland a real breakthrough is urgently needed in the area of innovation. Without many systemic changes in the field of education, R &amp; D and the broadly understood business environment, it will be very difficult to escape the medium-development pitfalls so well diagnosed in the Responsible Development Strategy. At the same time, statistics are known that 70% changes managers are affected by failure. The key to understanding the essence of making effective changes is therefore the use of persuasive methods and social dialogue. Only skillful change management can guarantee success today. The bill under review is the beginning of this important process. Furthermore, I would like to point out that in many sectors of the economy we are dealing with breakthrough technological developments. For example, in mining and energy, revolutionary changes have a strong impact on traditional structures and force the adoption of anticipatory strategies. The reconstruction of the current centralised energy model will only be possible with the support of all innovative instruments of the economy. This will trigger a causal link chain with a distributed generation system with a high share of renewables, smart grids, virtual power plants, dynamic tariffs, demand side management, the Internet of Things and Industry 4.0. This in turn will result in innovation in other industries and services. For this reason, the contested law is of great importance for creating new mechanisms that create, among others, mechanisms. interactive electricity market, which will create an area to incubate new innovative Polish companies. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Members of the Free and Solidarnia Circle will support this bill together with the Senate's amendments. Thank you very much. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u637	Thank you very much. All Members of the Committee have taken part in the discussion. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u638	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present its position on the Commission's report on the Senate's resolution on the amendment of certain laws laying down the conditions for the conduct of innovative activities (print No 958). The bill deserves a positive assessment for several reasons: (a) is good in substance, acting as an appropriate first step towards improving the system for supporting innovative activities; (b) there are no major technical and legislative concerns; (c) has been subject to extensive consultation and a number of opinions, (d) the proposed solutions are the natural evolution of the current regulations. The Senate introduced three amendments into the text adopted by the Sejm. The first amendment is technical in nature and the third amendment complements the transitional provision. Both of these amendments raise no doubt. The second amendment is essential in substance. The amendment eliminates the need to implement a time-consuming procedure for obtaining the approval of the State Treasury Minister after prior agreement of the university senate in the case of short-term (up to 90 days) lease of fixed assets for scientific purposes. There were no scientific goals in the proposed regulation. There were conference, training, teaching, recreational and sports purposes or audiovisual production. The proposed amendment deserves a positive opinion. It must be stressed that the same amendment was tabled in the second reading of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, but it was rejected in the vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u639	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party our position on the report of the Senate's resolution on the Act amending certain laws laying down the conditions for conducting innovative activities. Today's tax law package, law on the rules of exercising the powers of the State Treasury, the Law on Higher Education and the Act on the Polish Academy of Sciences is aimed at dynamicising the innovative activities of Polish research centres and improving the conditions of innovative activity in our country. For years Poland has been in the tail of global innovation rankings, while our universities have been in the fourth hundred similar combinations. Despite the visible improvement in recent years, despite the promotion in innovation rankings, the current state of Polish science certainly does not exhaust our dreams and ambitions in this regard. The scientific community in Poland has been proposing tax changes in innovative activities for years. This law concerns amendments to both income tax laws and to the Tax Order. They consist of: abolishing the tax on intellectual and industrial property imports, extending the list of eligible costs to the costs of obtaining a patent, increasing the amount of eligible costs related to R &amp; D expenditure (research and development), which can be deducted from the tax base, extending the period foreseen for the deduction of costs associated with R &amp; D activities, increasing the amount of tax relief for taxable persons increasing the level of R &amp; D expenditure, the possibility of granting a cash refund for eligible expenditure which could not be granted because of the lack of income or the insufficient income to be taxed, treated on an equal footing with overpayment of tax. All these changes should be assessed positively. The subsequent amendments proposed by the authors of the Act concern the Law of 8 August 1996 on the rules for exercising the powers of the State Treasury. In the Article provision. 5a the amended act is added paragraph. la, which is to be introduced in respect of legal activities carried out by a public university, the Polish Academy of Sciences and its research institute, the requirement to notify the Treasury Minister if the market value of the subject-matter of the regulation exceeds the equivalent in PLN 250 000 euro. To date, this limit has been EUR 50,000. The amendment also provides for more flexibility in the rules for public legal entities having infrastructure, including research. This means that e.g. universities, research institutes, the Polish Academy of Sciences and its scientific institutes without the permission of the Minister of the Treasury will be able to conclude short, paid leases and leases, e.g. conference room, audiovisual equipment. In practice, they will be able to dispose of their assets more freely. Undoubtedly, the proposed direction of change is right, it should improve the condition of state research centres and, above all, their independence. Among tax changes, the Act provides, among others, for tax changes. the abolition (since January 2017) of the intellectual property income tax paid to the company. It also assumes the possibility for small and medium-sized enterprises to deduct from tax the costs of obtaining a patent and to increase the eligible costs of R &amp; D expenditure that can be deducted from the tax. For micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, these deductions will be up to 50%. Large companies will be able to deduct 50% personnel expenditure and 30% other costs related to R &amp; D activities (R &amp; D). In addition, the Act extends from the current 3 years to 6 years the period during which the trader can deduct the costs incurred for R &amp; D activities. A cash refund is also foreseen for new start-ups (so-called: start-ups) carrying out R &amp; D activities of 18% or 19% a potential but unused deduction. The Act discussed today by the High Chamber also affects the Law on Higher Education and the Act on the Polish Academy of Sciences. The first amendment concerns Article. Article 66 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1, according to which the rector, as an institution of the university, makes decisions on its property and economy, as has been the case so far, up to the amount unchanged, i.e. EUR 250 000. There is also scope for commercialisation and for the contribution of the university to the company exemption from the provisions of the Law on the Rules of Enforcement of the Powers of the State Treasury (designed art. 86ba). Moreover, even after the creation of the company, the rector can recapitalise it with money. The projector imposes an obligation on the university employee to initiate the commercialisation process by providing information and a statement of interest in the transfer of rights to research expenditure. In this way, the proposed solution disciplines the worker on the initiation of the commercialisation process and, at the same time, obliges him to determine the direction of the action taken. As is currently the case, the decision whether or not to do so remains the authority of the university. The time available to the employee to participate in commercialisation benefits will also change. So far, there's been a five-year deadline. Instead, an unlimited share is proposed. The Polish Academy of Sciences is to gain greater independence in the disposal of its assets and investment activities. Several amendments were made to the draft amendment during the work of the Parliamentary Committees. One of them removes the provisions that gave rise to the possibility that the R &amp; D tax relief constitutes authorised State aid. Another amendment concerns grants granted to scientific bodies for the maintenance of research capacity. 2% These funds will have to be allocated to the financing of activities related to the commercialisation of research and development results. Previously, the project proposed that this should be 0.5%. Another amendment provides for the possibility of supporting Polish environmental technologies (in Poland and abroad) by the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. This amendment is related to the implementation of the NIK audit recommendations. These changes shorten the process of technology transfer, give greater autonomy to research institutes and allow researchers to participate more in the commercialisation of innovation. These changes are undoubtedly worthy of support. In conclusion, the Act introduces a coherent system of instruments to reward and encourage innovative activities. So-called. A small innovation law did not raise controversy in the High House. We worked on it in harmony, complementing and perfecting its project together. I would like to express my hope that also a broader package of changes, i.e. the so-called. a large innovative law will be conducted in a similar, substantive atmosphere, and above all will meet the expectations of scientific and business communities interested in R &amp; D. We are counting on the draft to be held by the Sejm soon. The Act adopted unanimously by the High House returns today after the adoption of the Senate amendments to the proceedings of the High Chamber. After reading the amendments, PSL maintains its previously expressed support for the Act amending certain laws setting out the conditions for carrying out innovative activities.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u640	We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Committee on the Senate Resolution on the Law amending the Road Transport Act (Prints No. 959 and 961). I'm calling a three-and-a-half-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 1 min. 25 hours 1 min 31]] I'm reopening the session. I would like to inform you that item 17 of the agenda for the report of the Committee on Infrastructure relating to prints Nos 959 and 961 will be considered on 4 November, but after a break, after the vote. [[Grande scandalo.]] This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 3 November this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. I'd ask anyone else to sign up, 'cause I'm about to close the list. Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, the Law and Justice Club, has the floor at the moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u641	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! My statement concerns an extraordinary celebration, because on October 26th this year. in Gliwice, near the garrison church of St. St. Barbara was exposed to a monument of the Silent Gliwice. The ceremony began with the Holy Mass, which was led by the Polish Army Bishop General Brig. Józef Tuzdek. In this way, six extremely brave and well-deserved patriots, paratroopers associated with my city - Gliwice, were honored. Bartłomiej Grabski, Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of National Defence, Silesian voivode, city president, self-government and family of Gliwice quietly dark people took part in the ceremony held under the patronage of the Ministry of National Defence. The meek were the elite of Poland Fighting, the best of the best, six of 316 volunteers, for whom the independent homeland was the greatest value. The fates of these six silent ones were related to the Gliwices. Gliwice heroes are already dead Edward Andrzej Kiwer, Bolesław Jan Polończyk, Leszek Ignacy Ratyski, Bogusław Ryszard Wolniak, Antoni Marian Piotr Żychiewicz and still living today, also participating in the celebrations, Alexander Jan Tarnawski. They were all hiding under pseudonyms, organizing a resistance movement and combat actions directed against the invader. They had no right or opportunity to betray their tasks. This memory, this honor just deserves it. The fact that they're glycinates is an extra pride for me and the people of Gliwice. I am glad that the memory of the quiet ones is cultivated in Poland today. Their name is, for example, the GROM Military Unit. Other special forces also originate from their traditions. It is also an important task for us to draw the silent ones out of the memory cards among young people. I would also like to join the words which were said during the Holy Mass by the Bishop of the Polish Army, that today we want to remind you of those who were able to give their lives for others. It's not enough so-called. minimal patriotism, but it takes every soldier to fulfill his military oath to the end. The most important message, not only those six silent ones, but all 316, was fidelity and devotion to an independent homeland. I would like to express my greatest gratitude and respect to all those who have engaged in ceremonies connected with the unveiling of the monument of the Silent Gliwice. The involvement of the organizer and the founder of the monument, the Social Commemoration Committee, should be distinguished here. General August Fielddorf, Nila, Smolnica, President of Jan Święcicki. Thanks also to the commander of the garrison of Gliwice colonel. Mirosław Molik and Gliwice Club of Polish Newspaper led by Mrs Marta Święcicka. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u642	Please, Mr Sylwester Khrushch, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u643	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 1 November a question took place throughout Poland.We restore the memory of the cursed soldiers. The public collection was organized by the Foundation im. Kazimierz the Great under the auspices of the Union of Soldiers of the National Armed Forces. Thanks to the collected funds, numerous meetings open throughout the country with historians are organized, who bring the participants closer to the knowledge about the Polish independence underground. Documents of the Chief Command of the National Armed Forces were also issued. Students and historians who write scientific, bachelor's and master's papers will have easier access to source materials, to the history of the Polish underground of independence. Each year it is possible to organize the anniversary of the National Armed Forces and the anniversary of the establishment of the Świętokrzyskie NSZ Brigade. Educational brochures for school children and young people appear and are sent to all types of schools across the country to facilitate classrooms on cursed soldiers and to restore the heroes' memory among the youngest generation. The collected funds also build and renovate tombstones, monuments and plaques dedicated to heroes fighting for independent Poland in 1939 and 1963. Thanks to volunteers, the collected amounts are impressive, and these are just some of the things that we manage to organize through the collection. It is worth noting that the collection is organized and led mainly by young people throughout Poland. Where the state did not fulfil its role for a long time, the young generation did not fail there. We can be proud of the people who sacrifice to pay tribute to the men who are cursed. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u644	Please. Mr Dariusz Bąk has the floor. Member Stanisław Pieta, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u645	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, in October this year. The 150th birthday anniversary and 80th anniversary of the death of the outstanding Polish politician Ignacy Daszyński passed. Ignacy Daszyński was born on October 26, 1866 in Zbaraz. He was one of the organizers of the Workers' Party in Lviv in 1890 and then established in 1892. The Galician Social Democratic Party, transformed in 1897 into the Polish Social-Democratic Party of Galicia and Silesia Cieszyński. Since 1893 he has edited the party press body. In the years 1897-1918 he was a Member of the Austrian Parliament, where he became famous as one of the best speakers stigmatizing the abuse of the authorities, corruption and exploitation. Ignacy Daszyński has been cooperating with the Polish Socialist Party since its creation. In 1901 he made close contact with Józef Piłsudski. During the 1905 revolution, he published an open letter to the CKR PPS, where the leader of the PPS criticized the Polish labour movement too closely with the Russian movement. He believed that it was the duty of the Polish Revolution to set its own goal: the independent Polish republic. Between 1912 and 1914 Daszyński was one of the leaders of the Interim Commission of Confederate Independence Parties. World War I began in 1914. Daszyński was a supporter of the participation of Poles in the war against Russia, on the side of Austro-Hungary. He called for the union of Galicia with the Kingdom of Poland and their transformation into the third part of the Habsburg monarchy, alongside Austria and Hungary. Ignacy Daszyński was the initiator of the creation and then the deputy president of the National Committee. At the end of World War I local power centers were established on Polish lands. On 19 October 1918, the National Council of the Duchy of Cieszyn was established in Cieszyn. On 28 October that year, Polish Liquidation Commission was established in Krakow. On the night of 6 to 7 November 1918, the Interim Government of the People's Republic of Poland was established in Lublin, where Ignacy Daszyński served as Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs. It was the first Polish government on land liberated from the rule of the invaders. The manifesto of this government was the most radical of the non-revolutionary concepts of the interwar 20th anniversary. He decided on the republican shape of the reborn Poland, introduced the principles of parliamentary democracy and decided on the freedom character of later legislation guaranteeing a significant range of civil liberties. The Interim Government of the People's Republic of Poland existed until 11 November 1918 when Józef Piłsudski was dissolved at the request of the arrival from Magdeburg. [[On 11 November we celebrate the Feast of Independence of Poland reborn after years of captivity. At that time it was a joyful day for all Poles. Ignacy Daszyński said: "The dreams of youth have come true. After years of war torture, suffering, fights, mistakes and hard work, remembered work, after so many transitions, after so many falls of hope, this is the independent Polish state that emerged from the bloody confusion of history. The feelings that spread my breast on that first day of freedom can only be compared with those that I felt in the hot days of the summer of 1914 at the beginning of the war. Not every generation can be proud of the experience of such epochal days.]] Between 1920 and 1921 he became Deputy Prime Minister in the so-called. The government of Wincent Witos National Defense. Between 1919 and 1930 he served as Member of the Sejm, in 1922 and 1927 he was Deputy Marshal, and in 1928 and 1930 he was Marshal of the Sejm. Because of his illness, he has not been active in political life since 1930. Ignacy Daszyński died [[♪ The bell ♪]] In Bystrą Śląska on October 31, 1936, a coffin with a body was exhibited in the Workers' House in Bielsk, where after a few days they were transported to Krakow and buried in the Rakowicki cemetery. Ignacy Daszyński has always combined his electoral programme with the fight for independence of Poland. In his international opinion, he strengthened his conviction that Poles had unprecedented rights to have an independent state. He manifested his dislike for all radical phenomena in the revolutionary movement, as well as for the Russian labour movement and the Russian revolution. He critically assessed the experience of the Soviet building of socialism. He wrote: What in 1906 was a magical program of the magnificent, huge, united Russian Republic soon became a terror of the civilized world. Daszyński tried to prove that the dictatorship of the proletariat in Polish conditions is not possible, and the only social programme is the programme of the PPS party justified by the words: the socialist system cannot be implemented against the will of the majority of society, so it must be based on democratic principles. I myself am quite distant from socialist ideas, while all those who voted for independent Poland deserve recognition and memory of the Polish people. Hello, Ignacy Daszyński's memory. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u646	Thank you, sir. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u647	Statement on the 210th anniversary of Emilie Plater's birth. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! November 13th this year The 210th anniversary of Emilie Plater's birth - a noblewoman who fought in the November Uprising. I would like to take this opportunity to say a few words about this patriotic legend. Emilia Plater was born on 13 November 1806 in Vilnius. She came from a family whose majority of representatives were great patriots and tied her life to the Polish cause. Emilia was a couple of years old when her parents split up. She then left with her mother, belonging to the relatives of Liksna's estate near Dyneburg, now Latvia. She was raised and educated together with the boys. She was interested in literature and history, she wrote poems, and she also rode horses, practiced fetish and hunted. She read a lot. Her heroes became Joan of Arc and the Greek of Bubulin. Emilia's historical interest in her personality was determined by her development. She supported the patriotic movement at that time and was delighted with the works of the great romantics Goethe and Schiller. She also showed great interest in the rural people. For patriotic reasons, she rejected the proposal of a wealthy Russian engineer. In 1830, she had a hard time surviving her mother's death. The news of the uprising called for a fight in Lithuania, but as a woman she was removed from the decision. After obtaining the promise of support from the students of the local school in Dyneburg, she developed a plan to conquer the city. The chance arose when in March 1831 Juliusz Grużewski's branch defeated Russians stationed in the village of Rosień, which became a signal for the uprising in Lithuania. Plater cut her hair and armored, in a men's outfit, together with her friend Maria Prószynska, she formed a several hundred-member insurgent unit, which included shooters, cavalrymen and scythesmen. On her way to Dyneburg, she gathered more volunteers and fought several victorious fights with the Russian forces. However, against the advantage of the opponent, she did not decide to attack the city, and her decimated unit joined the insurgent formation led by her relative. Emilia herself began to enjoy the sympathy and respect of the soldiers who appreciated her valor. In the spring of 1831 Plater joined Karol Załuski's unit at Ponowiewiec. Together with him she entered Wiłkomierz, where she met a new companion, Maria Raszanowicza. Together they participated in the skirmishes at Mishagoła and Garbielowo, where General Dezydera Chłapowski awarded Emilia the honorary rank of captain. His decision was also given to First Company Command 1. The regiment of the infantry of Lithuania. Plater was extremely valiant, defending the escorted troops to supply the insurgent army. When General Chłapowski, who was also in charge of her group, decided not to fight further, Plater decided to join the insurgent forces in the Warsaw area. Together with her relative Caesar Plater and Raszanowiczówna, she broke through the woods in her peasant costume, but the journey turned out to be too exhausting for her and the sick Emilia had to stop under the assumed name of Koravinska in Justianów at the Ablamowicz manor where she was treated. However, the treatment did not help and Emilia Plater died on 23 December 1831. Her body rested on the Ablamovich cemetery in Kopciów, today's Lithuania. The tomb was preserved until today, and Emilia Plater herself became a symbol of patriotism and the struggle for independence and the hero of poems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u648	Thank you very much, Prime Minister Beacie Szydło, for preparing the government program for life, the first programme of support for pregnant women and their families in Poland. Law and Justice once again kept their word, responding to the real needs of Polish families in extremely difficult situations. On 4 October, Prime Minister Beata Szydło set up an inter-ministerial team for the development of a government support programme for families. On 28 October, she announced the programme, and so the support programme for families became a reality. It is a support programme for families who raise children with disabilities. Support programme for women who decide to report pregnancy and birth even in the most difficult situations for yourself, including prenatal care, health care and care for the born child - this is how Prime Minister Beata Szydło spoke about the program for life. On 3 November 2016, the draft law "For Life" was sent to the Sejm. Today there was a heated debate in the plenary room, a discussion in which Members of the total opposition (at the beginning of their term of office declared that such an opposition would be and will be kept in this respect. The words, unfortunately, have covered the draft with amendments and criticism showing clearly anger that Law and Justice are fulfilling their promises that the Prime Minister has fulfilled her promise with the government at the head of which he stands. There were unsubstantiated voices that called the programme and included comprehensive disgraceful solutions, sharing society, families, women, children. Not so amazing, but it is outrageous that the majority of these voices flowed from women who should be most sensitive to the needs of the recipients of the program. And not so much. I'm sorry that my colleagues on the opposition bench are preaching so heartless and not reflected in the facts of the thesis, which I strongly object to as a woman just now. Among the anti-arguments of the total opposition could not miss the banner's slogan that the program instead of support would cause... chaos. And it didn't run out. It was like an old chorus of an old song in a discussion... We should ask ourselves what causes total opposition Members to criticize everything that the Law and Justice are proposing. Aren't the Members of the opposition for life? The answer seems to be extremely simple - the biggest problem for Members of the opposition is that for 8 years governments have not prepared good, solving problems of Polish families and responding to their needs projects, that the program is not a project by them. I hope that the programme will be adopted by the High Sejm as soon as possible so that it can enter into force as quickly as possible and provide real support for pregnant women and their families.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u649	Curly roads leading to the UNESCO list. Tarnowskie Góry have two flagship monuments: silver mine (available for tourists since 1976) and Black trout Valley (this was made available in 1957). Both monuments appear on the presidential list of historical monuments. At the end of the 18th century, the state mine Fryderyk was launched, which operated in the years 1784 and 1912. It is a unique treasure of national heritage with preserved, very good condition, excavations mined with drainage chambers system. The Tarnogórska Land Lovers' Association has been fighting for years to include a valuable monument on the UNESCO list. To this day, a titanium work has been carried out to find itself on this prestigious world list. But before it comes true, it is worth recalling that success has many fathers, and failure usually one. That is why today, the PO-RAŚ team of local authorities of the Silesian Voivodeship wants to join the sailing ship. As in the parable, something attached to the ship and says that we are sailing. Ad rem: in 2012 the thought and desire to appear on the UNESCO list was born in Tarnowskie Góra. At that time, one of the members of the Management Board of the Silesian Voivodeship appointed a team of experts to select specific monuments and to recommend them. Among other things, they were included in the team. Dariusz Walerjański, director of the International Centre for Documentation and Research on Industrial Heritage for Tourism in Zabrze, Leszek Jodliński, then director of the Silesian Museum, as well as Jacek Owczarek from the Silesian Centre for Cultural Heritage. Then it was decided, among others. to the amazement of the Tarnogórska Land Lovers' Association, that the list recommended radio station in Gliwice and the monuments of coal mining in Zabrze, but: it will not be received (recommendation) by the silver mine in Tarnowskie Góry, where it turns out that it is not known who owns underground excavations. It is important for UNESCO to ensure a bright future for the object. In all these three cases, it is not known what it will be...," said the President's Gazet Wyborcza, a member of the board of directors of Jerzy Gorzelik (quotat za: http://katowice. wyborcza. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man html#ixzz1oY9GgXCc h). Today, when the chances of the mine are huge and the moment of inclusion on the UNESCO list is approaching, RAŚ in the person of Henryk Mercik declares: the local government will provide the city with all possible assistance. Thanks to all the people and institutions involved in this process - the Association of Tarnogórska Land Lovers (SMZT), the National Heritage Institute (NID) and the local government of Tarnowskie Góra and emphasizes that the Sejmik War. In December, Slaskie adopted a resolution supporting Tarnowskie Góra's efforts to register on the UNESCO list (a quote for the UNESCO list: ¿Polish monuments of Upper Silesia on the way to the UNESCO list ¿ - www.rp.pl). Admirable hypocrisy and confidence in the fact that public opinion is losing memory very quickly and will forgive this power for creating a false picture of reality. I must admit, as the Councilwoman of the Sejm of the Silesian Voivodeship at that time, I sought an entry. Unfortunately, at the time, the authorities of PO, PSL and RAS did not see the possibility of helping in this regard. The return of the whole situation has occurred since the year when the elections to Parliament won Law and Justice and when the government of Prime Minister Beata Szydło takes great care of national heritage as well as appreciates the enthusiasts in defending historical places in Poland. Unfortunately, the local authorities downstairs did not understand one thing, that what is good happens after the 2015 parliamentary elections, thanks to appropriate professionals and concerns about Poland and Poles. It's called the endless love of the country. As a young Member of the Republic of Poland in January, I asked the Minister of Culture in the Sejm about the historical policy of the Polish state, which was chosen by the PiS, protecting national heritage. Now I hear that next Monday 7.11.2016 local government officials will be pulling their breasts forward from PO, not remembering how they prevented the success of the entry of the historic mine into the UNESCO list. Unfortunately, that is now the gratitude and hypocrisy of those who are actually only populistly able to advertise topics repaired by the PiS. I will not allow the facts to be twisted and the success of the current government to be reduced. I have received a mandate from the Republic of Poland for Law and Justice and I am trying to help the whole PiS club, to support the government of Prime Minister Beata Szydło, in order to repair neglected topics in every area. Together, we change reality for the better.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u650	Declaration on the occasion of the 65th anniversary of the Polish Union of the Blinds in the Service of Generations and the 70th anniversary of the Unification of the Movement of Blind People in Poland. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! This year there is a wonderful anniversary of a unique group, such as blind and visually impaired people in Poland. It is the anniversary of the 65th anniversary of the Polish Union of the Blindness in the Service of Generations and the 70th anniversary of the Unification of the Movement of Blind People in Poland. The Jubilee was under the honorary patronage of the President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Duda. I would like to pay due respect to the union activists, their selfless involvement and admirable energy. A blind relationship helps blind people and their loved ones to find themselves in a new situation resulting from loss of vision. It teaches you how to be independent at home, travel, work and how to actively participate in social life. It works for systemic solutions to facilitate the functioning of people with visual impairment and ensures that they are properly perceived. I personally support the District of Opole of the Polish Blind Union and the Circle of the Polish Blind Union in Namysłów since I was still vice-stars, and I will continue to do so. I would like to express my special appreciation to Mr Włodzimierz Ożga, the director of the Opolskie District of PZN and to the president of the circle in Namysłów Krystyna Pacholik and all members of the organization. Your work and commitment are of fundamental social importance to the environment of blind and visually impaired people in Namysłów and Opole region. I wish you further success and satisfaction from your work for the years to come and more wonderful anniversaries. I cordially greet you from the Sejm of the Republic of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u651	Statement on the celebration of the anniversary of the 1050th anniversary of Poland's baptism in the Puławy district. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 2016 is a unique year for our Church, state and nation. This year because we celebrate the anniversary of the 1050th anniversary of Poland's baptism. These most important celebrations took place on April 14 and 15 in Gniezno and Poznań. The first day of the Polish Episcopal Conference and Holy Mass took place. Thanksgiving in the Cathedral of Gniezno. In Poznań, in turn, there were ceremonial debates of the National Assembly, i.e. the united Chambers of the Sejm and the Senate; the message was delivered by the President of the Republic of Poland, Andrzej Duda. Then there was Mass. in the Poznań Cathedral, in Ostrów Tumski with the participation of the Polish Episcopate, representatives of European Episcopates, the President of the Republic of Poland and parliamentarians. The President of the Republic of Poland laid flowers on the grave of I and Bolesław Chrobre in the Golden Chapel. Its celebrations summarizing the anniversary of the 1050th anniversary of Poland's baptism also had a community of Puławy County, from which I come. They took place on Friday 28 October 2016 in Puławy. The celebrations began in the Puławy Cultural Centre's Showroom. Representatives of authorities and central, local and local authorities, uniformed services, educational, cultural units, as well as companies from the Puławy district participated in this uplifting event. A number of communal delegations added the special character of the ceremony to the flag of the county and the coat of arms of all municipalities. The session was held by the President of the Puławy District Council Danuta Smaga. Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, Deputy Marshal of the Lublin Voivodeship, Mr Grzegorz Kawiet, the commune of Puławy Krzysztof Brzeziński and the Puławy Starosta Witold Ashes. Personally in my speech I emphasized the importance of Poland's baptism for state formation. The following part of the ceremony presents the most important projects carried out by the organizational units of the county and municipalities, as well as associations and other entities which were connected with the anniversary of the 1050th anniversary of Poland's baptism. The ceremony was complemented by a lecture by historian Dr. Hab. Tomisława Girgiel devoted to the genesis and socio-cultural consequences of Poland's baptism. The event ended with the performance of the choir of the municipality of Kurów. At the end of the official part, the participants of the celebration went together in the solemn origins of the flag mail assist to the church of St. Our Lady of the Rosary, where the Holy Mass took place. chaired by Fr. Archbishop Stanisław Budzik, Lublin Metropolitan. A special point of the Mass was the act of giving the care of Our Lady of Puławy County by the chairman of the District Council of Danuta Smaga and the governor of Puławy Witold Ashes. All those involved in social, political, professional activities, working for the Puławy District, on a daily basis differing views, fighting conflict and political wars, I wish that the idea of Christian Poland and the nation drawing from the 105-year-old heritage be values that unite us all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-03-sejm-29-1.u652	I hereby order the meeting to be adjourned until 3 p.m. 9. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 1 min 44]]
